ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35049, Proposal for a law of Members Raemakers and Van Meenen amending the Childcare Act in order to encourage parents to choose between children's centres which may or may not allow children who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme. I welcome the Lower House members Raemakers and Van Meenen, who are defending the bill on behalf of the Lower House. I had already welcomed the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin today by expressing my sincere appreciation to colleagues Raemakers and Van Meenen. They have gone the long way of finding the problem, coming up with a solution, translating it into a legislative text, responding adequately to all the questions asked and ultimately convincing a majority of both Chambers, hopefully, in their eyes. 'Cause does the bill make it to the end of next week's vote? Is it a huzzarian piece or a sisyphic work? This seems to be a kind of struggle we have to win or a sport in which we have to perform and we are very quickly in a kind of struggle against each other. But, Mr. Chairman, I just listened very carefully. You did not open the debate on this bill, you opened the debate. That's different. I would like to do that today: debate. That is to say, at least exchange of thoughts, whenever possible consultation and at best arrive at a joint decision. In this debate, as we so often say in motion texts, it is about observing and considering: can we get together what the intentions are, what the problem is, whether the chosen solution works, what side effects can there be, whether it fits within the framework of law and fundamental rights, etc. Let's start with the intentions. My group fully understands where this proposal comes from. Far before corona, the theme of vaccination was important. Too low a vaccination rate means that we are at risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases. In addition, certain groups are particularly vulnerable: the elderly, people with poor health and also, as grandpa, small children. Luckily, major outbreaks with lifelong consequences, such as polio, have been largely eliminated. But history and countries with worse health care teach us how important vaccination is. That is why we also understand that Mr Raemakers presented his own initiative proposal in 2018 in order to "promote parents to choose between children's centres that allow or do not allow children who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme." Frankly, that sounds very liberal and also sympathetic. The explanatory statement said: there are parents who have doubts about vaccination due to false stories about vaccination and there are parents who are worried about the decreasing vaccination rate. With greater transparency about the admission policy of children's centres, anyone can choose where to place the child. But actually there sounds already a first framing in those sentences that doesn't really help with a pure balancing. It is assumed in advance that parents who do not have their child vaccinated do so because they are guided by false stories from the unscientific social media. That framing gradually shifted a bit. Later, with the written questions, the initiators already put an emphasis on parents who, on ideological and, above all, philosophical grounds, do not allow their child to be vaccinated. Both groups do exist, but there are also regional differences. Even in the big cities there seem to be groups and neighbourhoods where vaccination rates are significantly lower, for example among children with a migration background. In these three groups very different factors play a role: misunderstandings, principles in others, possibly language problems, access to knowledge, cultural expectations. You could say that this liberal starting point does justice to the group of parents who do not inoculate their child in principle. But when it comes to parents with misunderstandings, lack of insight or distance from vaccination care, you would expect completely different solutions, for example more or better information or an active outreach offer. Then you wouldn't so much expect to just let it go, but to approach vaccination in a different way. Apparently, the government was aware of this. The programmes that had already been implemented also started to have an impact in 2019 and 2020. The vaccination rate rose again, to clearly above the critical 90%. It could always be better, but there was a rising line. Despite the pandemic of the last two years, including lockdowns and a huge pressure on care, vaccination rates have fallen only marginally. In other words, the conclusion might be that the large deployment of the vaccination programme is apparently working. That's good news, I'd say. As corona appears to have become more manageable, partly thanks to vaccinations, there is therefore every reason to pursue this policy and, above all, to see how groups with a lower vaccination rate can be better achieved. Therefore, my first question to the initiators and to the government is whether, given the progress of the vaccination rate, there is reason to doubt the policy with which the government is trying to increase that vaccination rate. After all, if that has any effect, the bill may not be necessary. I'd like a response from the petitioners, but also from the government. Anyway, that all seems to be about the vaccination rate, and the question is whether this bill is about that. The bill is about parents' freedom of choice. It is served by greater transparency. That is a laudable goal in itself, but the Council of State rightly said that this is not sufficient as a reason to distinguish between one child and another when registering at a child centre. It does not comply with human and treaty law requirements. This would discriminate against this bill. It would make a distinction without sufficient objective justification. That, of course, was not the intention of the D66 colleagues, a party that is always committed to equal treatment. Therefore, the Council of State's suggestion that the promotion of public health might be sufficient was reluctantly incorporated. I say 'feefully', because it is clear from the further answer that they still think transparency is sufficient. I must also say that they sometimes go into semantics to refute the argument of the Council of State. But they are not actually trying to show that public health is actually served by this proposal and, within the framework of subsidiarity, that this is the lightest means of increasing the vaccination rate. Sure, a vaccination obligation is a heavier one, but better vaccination campaigns are a lighter one, right? I ask the initiators: can you explain that this proposal is the lightest way to increase the vaccination rate effectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u4	I hear Mr Ganzevoort say: we have to use a different route, a route in which the vaccination rate is simply raised. My question to Mr Ganzevoort is: could he make an estimate of how long such a journey takes, how many years it takes, especially given the past few decades? Secondly, where does he stand with regard to the young children? We are talking about children less than a year old who, over a long series of years, will undoubtedly be the victims of not adopting this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u5	The latter is an interesting argument, because I have not seen Mr Van Strien's 'undoubtedly' in any of the documents. So I don't know where he gets his lack of doubt, but okay. The question is, can I estimate how long that's gonna take? No, I'm not an expert in that field. What I do know is that the vaccination rate has increased in recent years, and I think that is due to effective policies, apart from the last year, in which the preliminary figures show that, despite corona, there is only a marginal decline.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u6	Well, the numbers have been up for years, but they've been at the same level for a number of years and tend to really stop rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u7	Then, in the direction of Mr Van Strien, I must suggest that it might be useful to read the documents and information of the RIVM. They show precisely that the vaccination rate has increased in recent years, 2019 and 2020, for two years in a row. The provisional figures for 2021 indicate a slight decrease of less than 1%. That has to do with corona. That's how I read it in the papers. Perhaps Mr Van Strien can ask the government as well. If it comes with other information, I'd love to hear it, too. If the aim is to increase the vaccination rate, then the question is whether this will help and whether this is the lightest medicine. In that sense, I agree with Mr Van Strien. That should be the question when it comes to restricting fundamental rights, which is also at issue here. I agree with Mr Van Strien that we must also look at effectiveness and feasibility in our deliberations. Will this proposal now lead to greater transparency? Will it lead to an improvement in public health? As far as transparency is concerned, yes, this bill can be increased. It is not a legitimate objective to distinguish between groups of parents, but it is feasible. There are some AVG hobbles to take, but that's it. It's a question of whether it's gonna make a lot of money. It is not an obligation for children's centres, it is merely a possibility. As far as we have understood, there are also children's centres that make use of this possibility and that actually do not register children who have not been vaccinated. Whether it really is going to be used by many more children's centres and whether it really is giving parents more clarity, we will have to wait and see. It may increase transparency, but we are not sure. Then public health. There is a risk that concentrations of unvaccinated children will arise. If we understand correctly, it is scientifically unclear whether this really entails a greater risk of infection outbreaks. But it's not out of the question. Conversely, it is not clear whether it will contribute to the vaccination rate. If public health is the supporting objective, then effectiveness has not been established. That is why I ask the Minister and the initiators whether our reasoning is correct that this is not the purpose of this legislative proposal for public health alone in the technical sense. It is not demonstrably effective. There's one more thing. The legislative proposal seems to focus entirely on the individual interests of parents, for whom there may be more transparency. But when we talk about immunity, it is precisely a collective approach that is important to public health. I remember an election slogan that said, release everyone, but nobody falls. Apart from the stylish figure, you can find quite a bit of it, the thought is very beautiful. On this subject, should this not mean that we are fully committed to public health for everyone, rather than serving the individual interest of self-conscious parents, at the risk of reducing vaccination levels elsewhere? Does this proposal not lead to an even greater division between the health of the wealthy and disadvantaged? I ask the initiators what we can do to really not drop anyone, even when it comes to vaccination of children. There is also another problem. That is the question of whether the Human Rights College is competent after the adoption of this law to give a ruling if there is a complaint. The proposers say no, the government says yes. When this Chamber asked them to come to an understanding, if possible, there was a difference of opinion. I therefore fear that it is not very useful to repeat this here and to ask them about it in this debate. In particular, therefore, I note that the College itself has explicitly replied to this question by the Chamber that it is still competent. Nor will this law make a definitive difference in this respect. Mr. Chairman. In this way we come to discussions and considerations. The vaccination rate is important and should not decrease further. In fact, it should go up. This is particularly true for a number of specific groups of parents. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State tell us more about the vaccination rate within and outside these groups, i.e. not only about the national average, but more specifically about the difference between these different groups? Can the Minister and the Secretary of State also give a little more insight into the specific policy that is being used to reach these groups? If it were possible to increase the vaccination rate right there, we will probably achieve the goal we all want to achieve. I would like to invite the initiators to the same open attitude as I am trying to take. I really understand their concern, but my question is: do they understand the criticism of the Council of State and others about the means chosen by them? As far as the objective is concerned, we may still be able to get very close to each other, but do they understand the discussion about the means? Are they prepared to consider with us and with the government how to promote vaccination rates, especially among groups which are not yet sufficiently achieved? Is it about separating the vaccinated and unvaccinated children or is it about vaccinating as many children as possible so that they can play and learn together? Do they agree with my group that it is precisely liberal to make every effort to reach those groups and not to drop them or deny them access? Mr. Chairman. This might be a moment to talk about dream and act, where laws and practical objections stand in the way, but that poem by Elsschot was about an unfortunate marriage, as Mr Asscher reminded us two years ago. This is something else. This is a bad match between intentions and effect, with a sensitive goal that does not provide enough ground and a rational goal that does not have enough effect. Can we, I ask the initiators, take a step back to see what is really effective in protecting the health of all our children and grandchildren? I look forward very much to an open conversation today and to the answers of the government and the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Mr Schalk has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u9	I have a question for Mr Ganzevoort about the direction in which he has just pointed. He's actually pointing to a totally different bill. That's not about this bill anymore. If I understand correctly, Mr Ganzevoort has explained very carefully what this law will not bring about. The only thing that could help is transparency. My question about transparency is then: how should this be done? This transparency will only arise if you have an obligation to indicate when registering whether you want a childcare centre with only vaccinees or not. It is already possible at the moment to indicate that there should be no children who have not been vaccinated. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u10	Yeah, that's about what I said, just a little bit shorter. I have argued that in more detail. That's right, that's a line. In addition, this transparency is not in itself a sufficiently legitimate objective to distinguish between children. Hence my suggestion that perhaps we should take a step back and not discuss whether or not the legislative proposal will succeed. We need to talk a lot more about what would really help to increase the vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u11	I understand what Mr Ganzevoort is saying. But if we have to take a step back, we have to talk about whether or not this law should go forward. So what is the position of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u12	Yes, but at the beginning of my contribution I suggested that we really start talking today. The day is still long. So let's see where we can find each other and see what content this really is. Let us not talk so much about the question of who will win at the end of the debate. It is much more about the question: if we share the same goal, what will help us? Is that this law? That's the question. That is what we need to discuss and perhaps you and I and others will be convinced of, but it may also be that the outcome of our consideration is that we would very much like to increase that vaccination rate, but that this is not the right route. It could be both.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Mrs Gerkens has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to express my appreciation and thanks to the authors of this law and their predecessors. They have tried to find a solution to the risk that children will be unintentionally infected with diseases such as measles due to the decrease in participation in the National Vaccination Programme. Mr. Chairman. When I was a child I had a special fear of pricking, and I still suffer from it by the way, because of sitting in the long rows in that in my eyes huge gymnasium with crying children all of whom had to be pricked. You can understand that if my children had to be pricked, I'd always run out of the room and leave it to their father. Nevertheless, I have always taken my vaccinations, even though I'm not a fan of needles. Just after my daughter was born, I met a mother with her severely autistic child in the playground. That mother told me that was because of the vaccination. You understand that I was shocked, because I have a young child there and I see here the result of where this mother was convinced, the vaccination. I immediately dived into it, which is in my nature. Is this a story? I have also come to the conclusion that there is no evidence to support that claim. But you'll understand that if you're sitting there as a young mother in front of someone who's convinced of that, it's still planting a seed. When a few months later my daughter also got sick, who had six months of severe ear infections, who had already had five antibiotic courses a few months later and with eight months of surgery, exactly in the period in which she had to have her inoculation there was no contra-indication..................................................................................................................................... In good consultation, I say, and the daycare was informed. So we were transparent, as the proposers wanted. Mr. Chairman. I tell this story to indicate that I understand very well that young parents may have doubts about giving vaccinations to their child. I am still of the generation who have had the mumps and measles, and I also know how risky and terrible these diseases are. The generation had seen around me the disastrous consequences of diseases such as polio, and so they had no doubts. Worldwide, we try to prevent mortality from these diseases with the vaccination program, and that works. Doubt is allowed, but in all honesty we must conclude that vaccination prevents much suffering. I could slow down that vaccination because the other kids were vaccinated. That is why transparency is important. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the purpose of this bill. The aim is to increase transparency, thereby increasing the freedom of choice and allowing the daycare centre to refuse children who have not been vaccinated because it does not fit in with their policies. Under this law, almost all unvaccinated children or all unvaccinated children may be refused, except where this vaccination is not possible on medical grounds. The latter, as the proposers say, hardly ever occurs. It's been said. Some daycare centers already pursue this policy, and successfully, others did so but were threatened with a lawsuit. That is why, as the authors say, legislation is needed. Mr. Chairman. That's where the first shoe comes in. Because daycare centres can already refuse children if they have a good argument for that. They are private institutions, which can make demands on the children they allow at daycare as long as they are not discriminatory. There is therefore no need for the law. According to the proposers, the law ensures transparency and improves the freedom of choice. At present, the average waiting time at a daycare facility is about one year. Well, that's for the least popular days. Working parents are lucky to have a place. Outside the Randstad, the range of daycare facilities is also much lower. Often it is one organisation that also covers a large area. The proposers then write that in these cases parents at most have to travel a little further, but more discomfort will not give it. This remark shows little knowledge of the current life of young parents. A daycare center further in the city or in another village quickly gets up half an hour earlier, a huge increase in stress, not to mention the lack of sleep that we already have as a young parent. So there is hardly any freedom of choice now. Then why do the proposers think it will be improved with this proposal, so I ask them. And if so, is freedom of choice also the solution to this problem? Is it up to a daycare center to increase the vaccination rate, or is that an area belonging to the legislator? As the colleague reminded me, the Council of State was also critical of that objective. Insufficient for the legislation, he argued. However, legislation would be possible if, for example, the objective was to promote public health. The applicants then stated that the objective was indeed mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. However, my group reads a possible impact of the legislation in the explanatory memorandum. The legislation could improve parental choice and increase the coverage rate. My group is moving too fast now, because if I don't want to have vaccination, I'm just going to another daycare center where I don't have to. Or I'll go to the hostage shelter. My question to the authors is: do they really think that legislation is necessary to improve public health? If so, what does this legislation contribute to this? What support do they have for this claim? I also ask this because the Council of State insists that a trade-off that infringes the AWGB must be proportionate. As the effect is marginal and therefore the law may not stand up in European courts, my group believes that further justification is necessary. Where is this objective justification which the Council of State points out in its further opinion? Reference to the Vermeij committee is really not relevant here, because it speaks about an obligation for all daycare centres. The proposers deliberately do not choose to do so. The authors say that the law is not necessary because there is now a lack of clarity as to whether or not children should be refused; this law sets a framework. As I said, there is already that possibility, but let us go with the proposers for a moment. The law says that unvaccinated people may refuse or some may refuse when they wish. They leave it to the daycare centers to draw up policies there. The basis for this policy is not given, other than to be transparent. If this does not also lead to legal proceedings, I ask the proposers. How is this law going to prevent the old policy of not converting a requirement from any unvaccinated into 'almost all'? On the basis of which law or policy is this unvaccinated refused? How do we prevent the appearance of discrimination? We know that, for example, the BMR coverage rate for Turkish and Moroccan children is below 90%. Can the proposers indicate how this legislation solves this problem? I would also like to hear the views of the cabinet on this. My group is pleased that medically indicated children do not have to comply with vaccination requirements, but there are few of them, as the proposers themselves said. There are situations where vaccinations may not yet be considered. I'm referring to my daughter. How to deal with cases like this? This legislation will undoubtedly create clusters. The applicants asked RIVM for their opinion. They translate RIVM's statements in such a way that they say that the proposal will not lead to clustering. My group believes that this is not what RIVM says. RIVM says that the policy of refusing non-vaccinated children will reduce the risk of an outbreak only marginally and thus also that the risk of an outbreak of a vaccination-free daycare facility will increase marginally. This means that this legislation will only make a marginal difference in terms of increasing the vaccination rate or the risk of an outbreak. By the way, the outbreak of a vaccination-free daycare facility is much more serious and, de facto, you do not want a daycare centre with unvaccinated children, because an outbreak there is harder than a daycare centre with a mix of vaccinated and unvaccinated children. I would like to repeat the questions to the Secretary of State that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has just asked. I conclude with the pressing question of how we should see this bill in the light of the vaccinations against COVID-19. I look forward to the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u15	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Mrs Prins has the floor on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. In the autumn of 2018, members Raemakers and Van Meenen were concerned about the decreasing vaccination rate for the mumps, measles and rubella, just the bmr vaccinations. It fell more and more below 95%, the limit recommended by the WHO. In 2018, it was 93.6%. These concerns were enhanced by measles being a highly contagious disease, with a reproductive factor of 18. Who could have feared that more than three and a half years later we would be faced with an even more contagious virus, the omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus? The consequences of this infectious virus have therefore been experienced more than ever as a society in recent years. Mr. Chairman. The coronavirus has led to more than ever conversations in society about vaccination and vaccination. Rational, emotional and religious considerations play a role in this and have often led to intense discussions and even demonstrations against a possible vaccination obligation. I would remind you of the discussions we have had here in this Chamber on the introduction of corona tickets in relation to the provisions of our Constitution. Still, around 15% of citizens have not been vaccinated against this virus. Mr. Chairman. In our opinion, you cannot avoid looking at this law in the light of our experiences and decisions about corona and the corona measures. Of course you can't compare apples with pears, says an old saying, but at the same time both are fruit. There are also differences, for example in the subsidiarity and proportionality of the proposed measures. Before I go into this law, I would like to congratulate the two initiators, Raemakers and Van Meenen, for their concern about a falling vaccination rate against possible bmr contamination and for taking action in the form of this legislative proposal. The CDA Group fully agrees with the two initiators on the importance of vaccination. It is a gift, I should like to say: a gift from God that we may have these vaccinations so that we can take responsibility for ourselves and for our fellow human beings in the context of prevention. However, we have to admit that this bill is a bit heavy on our stomachs, from a legal point of view and, secondly, in terms of feasibility and enforcement. The aim of the law is transparency and freedom of choice for parents to choose a child care facility where only vaccinated children, or almost only vaccinated children, are welcome. In other words, private organisations may choose between children who are or are not vaccinated. Here we have to make a comment right away. In normal circumstances, children are not vaccinated against bmr for medical reasons until 14 months. Therefore, every child care facility already has a mix of vaccinated and unvaccinated children. As the RIVM also points out, the main risks of infection for unvaccinated children are not child care but in their social environment. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group believes with the government, but also with the Verweij committee, author of the report Gijken for each other, that the concern for public health of vaccinated and unvaccinated children is a matter for the government and not for commercial organisations, as also stated in the Public Health Act. The opinion of an individual entrepreneur, an individual employer, should not be decisive for granting or not granting access in relation to the health or being vaccinated by a visitor or an employee. See also the handling of the corona tickets. Not a private entrepreneur, but the government determines the frameworks for everyone. It is not for nothing that Article 22 of the Constitution states that public authorities should take measures to promote public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u17	I stayed for a while after Mrs Prins did not want to compare the apples and pears, hoping that some more explanation was given as to why this is being discussed here. So I would like to ask Mrs Prins what is the real reason why Corona should also be mentioned in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u18	That is quite clear, for various reasons. I have already mentioned a few of them. I will mention a few more in the rest of my speech. First of all, both have to do with vaccination and an indirect or indirect form of compulsory vaccination. That's one reason. A second reason is the degree of infectiousness we're talking about. The corona virus is even many times stronger than the mumps and measles. Just now I told you that I think it's a matter of the government and not of a private entrepreneur, just like with the corona tickets. I can name a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u19	As far as infectious disease is concerned, it is true that measles virus and corona virus are equally contagious. However, we are now talking about the sickness of children. It is substantially different. I still do not see why this should be taken together in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u20	I have taken it into account in the fact that we in society are once again dealing with an infectious variant. We haven't talked about that in years. This infectious variant has led to discussions in our society about vaccination and vaccination. We weren't talking about that three years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u21	Okay. Does Mrs Prins then believe that vaccination against covid should also be part of the National vaccination programme in due course, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u22	I think that is a point of later order. I have now focused on this subject, all the more so because I wanted to show that we are much more aware of the consequences of a possible vaccination obligation, whether directly or not. With regard to the vaccination rate for bmr, the government has undertaken various activities, such as the Vaccination Alliance, adapting communication by addressing more and better the emotions and objections of parents who do not want to have their child vaccinated, more attention to disinformation, et cetera. We are fortunate to note that this extra effort is working. The reduction in vaccination rate has stopped. However, we see a very limited decrease at the time of the covid period. That's also what my colleague Ganzevoort said. Action is now being put in place. The CDA Group is looking forward to considering the initiators' considerations of granting powers to a private company by way of derogation from, for example, the corona tickets, thereby infringing the principles of the Constitution. This is all the more true since an approach with more personal and focused communication appears to give the greatest chance of vaccinations. This teaches the research done by Nivel and the AMC on this subject. We have also seen this experience recently in the use of a neighbourhood- and personalised approach by GGD's and GPs on covid vaccination. Mr. Chairman. Then a second observation. The initiators have repeatedly indicated that the purpose of this law is transparency, and the parents' freedom to make informed choices. In the context of proportionality of this law, I quote the initiators: "It is unmistakably disproportionate as the consequences of honoring a wish of the parents of unvaccinated children to always have access to childcare are borne by the parents of the children who have been vaccinated." Apart from the fact that the risks of contagion are present outside childcare rather than within childcare, the RIVM states, in its various opinions, that the objective of transparency and freedom of choice is not sufficiently appropriate and important to serve as a legitimate objective. The use of this law, with the consequence of indirect discrimination, is legitimate if there is objective justification with the necessary medical justification in the light of public health, the Council of State states. The CDA Group noted that the initiators did not indicate with caution until later, i.e. after approval of the proposal in the House of Representatives, that the objective is, in the second instance, the protection of public health. What is the reason why this addition in the field of public health has initially been so explicitly rejected, we ask the initiators. Mr. Chairman. Then another observation. It appears that there are already several childcare centres applying vaccination policies. Only vaccinated children are welcome there. The initiators indicate that this situation does exist now, but that there is still a risk that a parent who does not endorse this view may have recourse to the General Equal Treatment Act. Therefore, the initiators have provided for an addition to the Childcare Act, namely that the holder of a children's centre may provide that only or almost exclusively staff are employed in any form and children are admitted who can be shown to participate in the vaccination programme referred to in Article 6b, first paragraph of the Public Health Act, in so far as medical reasons are not detectable. The initiators have indicated that they have added this so-called lex specialise, given the provisions of the General Law on Equal Treatment. In this way, the initiators write, there would no longer be room for further consideration in specific cases by the judge or by the Human Rights College. In reply to a question from the First Chamber, the chairman of this college also indicated that despite this additional article, the college is still competent. I quote: "The activities of children's centres as employers respectively (in the case of vaccination as a job requirement for current/future workers) and as a provider of goods and services (in the case of vaccination as an admission requirement for children) fall within the scope of equal treatment legislation." How do the initiators view this position of the college? Mr. Chairman. The initiators support their proposal, including in answering various questions from this Chamber, with Article 24 of the UN Children's Rights Committee, which states that the government has a duty to inform parents of factors affecting the health of the child and to ensure that parents can make informed choices. We have difficulty in finding the relationship between this article and the bill, which allows childcare centres to decide whether or not they allow unvaccinated children. Does this not mean that the government must be very active in communicating on the advantages and disadvantages of vaccination, activities such as those which have now been intensively taken up by the government? Please give an explanation from the initiators. As a CDA group, we note that there is some lightness about feasibility and enforcement. Children at a young age are regularly vaccinated. So every child in a child care facility has its own puncture interval, so to speak. The initiators see no objection in this; that can also be done with a calendar. In addition, that is the idea, a child care company chooses for it itself and therefore takes the administration for granted. However, the CDA Group would like to point out that this is very personal information, which each organisation has to deal with continuously. It seems to us to be desirable to monitor this. We do not have such elements in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, the CDA Group strongly supports the promotion of vaccinations. For us, the question remains whether this legislative proposal is the right way, especially in the light of legitimacy, proportionality and subsidiarity. The vaccination rate for bmr is at a reasonable to good level. We call on the government to make a firm commitment to adequate and personal communication. This is an approach that works in our country and which, in our opinion, is justified, given the vaccination rate, which fortunately is much higher than the vaccination rate for COVID-19. We are curious about the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the initiators on the initiative proposal and also on the patience they have shown to come to a conclusion. The D66 Group therefore welcomes the fact that today we can debate the legislative proposal on the option of children's centres on the basis of participation in the National Vaccination Programme. Vaccination has been in extraordinary interest over the past two years. This is, of course, about vaccination against the SARS-CoV-2 virus, but let it be clear before this debate, as I pointed out in my interruption, that this initiative legislative proposal is about the National Vaccination Programme. The so-called corona vaccination is not part of that. Whether it will be part of it in the future is not relevant either. The proposal for an initiative concerns the principle of choice whether unvaccinated children may be refused by childcare centres. Our group therefore asks the initiators whether they can explain once again the reasons for this initiative proposal and how it relates to the reasons that opponents have to refuse to do so. Mr. Chairman. Our group believes it is important to stress that the proceeds of vaccinations are primarily for the benefit of the vaccinees themselves. The effects of vaccination programmes are high worldwide and the National vaccination programme is also successful in the Netherlands. Research shows that vaccinations worldwide have prevented at least 30 million dead children in low and middle income countries between 2000 and 2019. I'm gonna give you a few more figures on how big the effects of vaccination are. Since 1903, mortality rates of infectious diseases from the National vaccination programme in the Netherlands have decreased by almost half. Per 10,000 inhabitants this decreased from 156 deceased in the year 1903 to 84 in 2012. The average number of years of life lost to these infections was 3.8 years for children born in 1903, 0.59 years for children born in 1952 and only 0.16 years for children born in 1992. That's a strong reduction in early mortality from vaccinations. We're talking polio, tetanus, whooping cough, diphtheria, measles, ruffled dog and mumps. The National Vaccination Programme has thus prevented between 6,000 and 12,000 deaths among children and young adults in the Netherlands, born between 1953 and 1992. Let's just say the generation is the way we are here. That's hundreds of thousands of years of life. Statistically, one of us would not have been here if there had been no vaccinations such as those included in the National vaccination programme. And some of us would suffer from complications, sometimes lifelong, like polio, without these vaccinations. The figures I mention here relate to the seven vaccines against the classic childhood diseases I have just mentioned. Meanwhile, the current National vaccination programme protects with eight injections against twelve infectious diseases. Fortunately, vaccination readiness has been very high among the population for a long time, but a few years ago it was somewhat declining. This bill came into being in the time when there was unrest in society about the relatively low vaccination rate. Parents were therefore concerned about whether their child was safe in the daycare center. A choice to take your child to a childcare center where only vaccinated children are offers some rest for these parents. How is it that vaccination has come into a less good light? Traditionally there are religious considerations not to give vaccinations, but there are also parents who are reluctant from, for example, an anthroposophical mindset. Scientific insights in some parents are no longer self-convincing to arrive at a choice of vaccination. The weighting of pros and cons in parents can lead to a choice not to have their child vaccinated. Fortunately, for an unvaccinated individual, there is protection in a population with a high vaccination rate: group immunity. This is an additional effect of vaccination experienced by unvaccinated individuals. Vaccinates with absent or reduced immune response also benefit from this. In the children's centers we are talking about, some children are not yet fully vaccinated because of their age. It is therefore very important for them to be together with as many vaccinated children as possible. An individual consideration of parents leading to a choice not to participate in the National vaccination programme is therefore not in the interests of society and in this case the children in the childcare centres. At the same time, an unvaccinated child itself has no interest in a lower vaccination rate in society, an apparent contradiction. We therefore ask the cabinet what it intends to do to keep the vaccination rate high; it has been discussed before in the debate. This protects both vaccinated and unvaccinated children? Mr. Chairman. This debate is not about convincing that vaccinations are useful. Even the opponents of this bill, I suppose, will not dispute the figures mentioned. The point is that children who, by choosing their parents, knowingly maintain a naive immune system for the pathogens mentioned in the National vaccination programme can be refused by childcare centres. In doing so, it is important to realise that this initiative proposal does not create a vaccination obligation, not even an indirect one. In fact, the initiators' expectations are that there will be sufficient room in nursery homes or host families that will not apply the refusal. Can the initiators provide further support for this? The bill offers parental freedom of choice and transparency about vaccination status. RIVM recalls that almost half of unvaccinated children are already going to a childcare facility where the vaccination rate is less than 80%. The RIVM report estimates that there is no reason to believe that this bill will increase the risk in the children's centres where unvaccinated children are being taken care of. According to the RIVM report, the other half of the unvaccinated children go to a site where the vaccination rate is high. The bill states that these locations can refuse these children but should not refuse. It is therefore not an obligation of these children's centres but a choice. This makes it clear to parents that their child does not come into contact with children who are kept out of the vaccination programme. This leads to choice for the parents. Is it legitimate to refuse access to a childcare centre as a result of the choice not to vaccinate? The D66 Group believes that the initiators have made this plausible. The European Court of Human Rights has ruled on a Czech vaccination obligation and the subsequent admission or refusal of a nursery. The Court considered that to be fair. This is an important signal, as the present legislative proposal remains well within the limits of that judgment. Mr. Chairman. The legal and moral aspects that have so far been discussed in the House of Representatives and the written questions are relevant and need to be addressed. Our group takes the view that vaccination issues are mainly concerned with the medical effects of vaccination, both for the individual and for society. From that position, in which health is valued, we support this initiative legislative proposal. The D66 Group has wondered whether the balance of interests between parents and children with and without vaccination by the initiators has been sufficient. Our group thinks so. We live in a society and depend on how we take care of each other and protect each other. A high vaccination rate is appropriate. Freedom of choice for parents to send their child to a childcare centre where the other children have been vaccinated is also appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u25	It's nice to have doctors in the room, because they have a lot of knowledge. This contributes to the considerations. However, I would like to ask Mr Van der Voort to give some thought to the puzzle we are dealing with. Indeed, none of the speakers has so far called into question vaccination, but the question is how transparency on the one hand and public health on the other are related. If we zoom in on public health, does Mr van der Voort think that this bill will benefit public health and, if so, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u26	I share Mr Ganzevoort's view that it is important that the vaccination rate is as high as possible in society. This benefits both the unvaccinated and the vaccinated children. I believe that the question you are asking is whether this bill is actually going to increase the vaccination rate. That's insecure. I do not think there are any studies that clearly show one or the other. It could be. In that case, that is a nice effect, but that is not the primary reason for this bill, at least, as I understand it, but we are going to hear from the initiators, but it might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u27	Thank you. It is important for Mr van der Voort to say that, because if that is not the primary reason, then only the other reasons, namely transparency, are left, and the constitutional principle becomes a point of discussion. But I'd still like to zoom in on public health. Maybe it doesn't necessarily contribute to that, but maybe it does. Mr Van der Voort just mentioned the point that many of the unvaccinated children are in places, and perhaps more, where the vaccination rate is much lower. How does he assess the risk to those kids?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u28	I fully agree with how this is described in the RIVM report, namely that the risk of infection with measles or any other disease, for example, is mainly determined by the degree of vaccination in society rather than by the degree of vaccination in the daycare centre. From that point of view, it is important that we strive together for a high vaccination rate. I am also very curious as to how the government is going to shape this. However, this does not imply that the risk to children in the daycare centre would have been increased by unvaccinated children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u29	Now I have lost Mr Van der Voort, because either the vaccination rate at the daycare center is relevant, and then it is if it is too low, or the vaccination rate is not relevant and then this bill does nothing. But you cannot say: it is relevant for the children at a daycare facility where the vaccination rate is high and is kept high, but for the other children it is not relevant, because the risk is in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u30	No, I said it's important that the vaccination rate in society is high. This protects against the introduction of a virus, in this case for example, lucky people, in the daycare center. That's the point. In addition, it can be reassuring for parents that their child is among children who have been vaccinated. I think those are the issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u31	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u32	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. It is therefore a question of whether the reassurance of parents is sufficient grounds for restricting the fundamental rights of others. Then we're a whole end today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u33	I thought I'd stick to that. Mr Van der Voort says: no, I meant it differently or I said it differently. But he's actually saying what RIVM says. The RIVM says: the risk of infection in children is not directly affected by the access restriction. This means that according to RIVM, it does not matter whether a child comes to a nursery with unvaccinated children or vaccinated children. This means that the bill will have no effect on the vaccination rate. So what is Mr Van der Voort's position on the bill, knowing that it will have no effect on the vaccination rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u34	I don't think we know if it's going to affect the vaccination rate. Of course, there may be parents who reconsider the choice not to vaccinate their children and still have their children vaccinated, giving them access to the daycare center. It could be. There are no hard figures that that is going to happen, but it could be that the vaccination rate is going to increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u35	That question was also asked by the applicants to the RIVM. That was indeed, as Mr Ganzevoort said, on the other hand: does it have adverse effects on unvaccinated nurseries, if I may put it that way? If the effect is nil there, how can you say that the effect on the other side is perhaps positive? Then there is also a risk of an outbreak on those unvaccinated nurseries, with the possibility that there will be an outbreak. It's either one side or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u36	It is, of course, the case that if a disease is introduced into a daycare facility, the unvaccinated children are at risk of being exposed to it. The same applies to children who have not yet been fully vaccinated in the daily residence where only vaccinees, at least participants in the vaccination programme, are present. So I do not quite understand what point you want to make with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u37	The point is that the legislative proposal can only serve transparency. The RIVM also says that the bill will not make a difference in the vaccination rate. According to RIVM, the bill cannot have a positive effect on public health. That leaves only transparency, freedom of choice, and then I agree with Mr Ganzevoort's conclusion that this is really not enough ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u38	I haven't read the RIVM report in such a way that it can't have any effect. I think it can have an effect, but it has not been shown that the effect will be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u39	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u40	Then I would advise you to read again the answer to point two in the letter, which actually states that the effect is nil.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u41	I would just like to touch on the practical side of what Mr Van der Voort has put forward, in particular the point that parents will soon be free to opt for a daycare centre where only vaccinated children would sit. Does he see these daycare centers as some kind of closed-down unit? In the care of children there are also often older children, who also go back to school. There are daycare centers attached to a school. How does Mr Van der Voort see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u42	The point is that it is important for all of us that the vaccination rate is high. That is what will protect both vaccinated and unvaccinated children from disease. So I think it is extremely important that we try to get the vaccination rate as high as possible with each other in all kinds of ways. In this way, the bill is not a direct protection of those children. The real protection of those children comes from a high vaccination rate. This bill may contribute to this, but in principle it is important to strive for a high level of vaccination. In addition, we think it is important that this freedom of choice, transparency and clarity are there for parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u43	Do I understand that Mr Van der Voort is actually turning it around by saying 'it is ultimately about the vaccination rate and a nice side effect is transparency'? That's how it almost seems to me now. That while we have consequences for children who may then meet other children at such a school or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u44	I'm not turning anything around. I say that there are a number of aspects to this. They all play along without turning anything around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u45	Just from the perspective of the parents who are worried about the question where to register their child. What if this bill was passed? Well, you can choose then. There will be transparency. This is a question I ask a doctor: can I as a parent assume that because of this law, my child is 100% safe and cannot be infected by measles if I choose a childcare centre where the vaccination policy as intended is maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u46	For the record, Mr Van der Voort is not here as a doctor. Nor can you address him as such, for that could have all kinds of consequences with regard to his reply and his position in his field of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u47	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I won't. I ask Senator Van der Voort, who has a reasonable knowledge of vaccination, whether a parent can assume that it is quite clear that a child cannot be infected after this law has been passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u48	The answer to that is, of course, no, because no one can give that guarantee. Again, the risk of infection depends mainly on the introduction of the virus. It depends on the degree of vaccination in society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u49	So what is the added value of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u50	The added value of this law is that there is transparency for parents, that there is clarity for parents, that this can give them some rest, that gives them the option, that it may increase the vaccination rate slightly further. These are the points raised in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u51	I hear a lot of ifs and buts here. Could you also say, with a maybe something negative glasses, that this could also mean false safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u52	I have to add that although children's centres can, of course, also pursue this policy at the moment, this legislative proposal gives them more legal certainty. That is also an effect of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u53	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u54	So the main effect of this bill lies with the daycare centres, the centres which are then free to conduct this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u55	I don't quite understand the question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u56	I just asked from a parent. After the adoption of this law, it may not have full certainty about the policy and its impact on the vaccination and the safety of the child. You have just said: no, this is, in fact, particularly true for childcare centres; for them, this bill will have an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u57	There are, of course, considerations with the parents. There are considerations at the daycare centers. A children's center can choose to pursue this policy in order to accommodate parents who would like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u58	But that daycare will have to indicate that there is no 100% certainty that the child will not be infected with any of the diseases against which you can vaccinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u59	I think it's okay if everyone realizes that, which is that the best protection against an infection is to vaccinate yourself, to have your children vaccinated and to ensure a high vaccination rate. On top of that there are parents who like to have this choice, we also appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u60	I have one short question about another aspect: freedom of choice. How does Mr Van der Voort appreciate the freedom of choice of parents who decide not to vaccinate their children? Is this freedom of choice less important?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u61	No, we're very attached to parents being able to make those individual choices. At the same time, it is true that the best possible protection for your children against these diseases is to follow the National vaccination programme. But that there are parents who do not choose to do so is of course free.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u62	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u63	Mr. Chairman. We still have a few questions to the initiators and the government about how they see the implementation. Are childcare centres going to somehow express the fact that they refuse or reject unvaccinated children? And how can reception centres act at the notification of a child to refuse to implement unvaccinated children? Do the initiators or the government intend to carry out another evaluation? When would it take place? And what specific aspects are then evaluated? It seems important to our group to examine how many children's centres use this right, how access to childcare centres develops for vaccinated and unvaccinated children, and how implementation and possible conflicts are handled. We'd like to hear if the government sees it that way. Mr President, so far. We'll wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u64	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I now give the floor to Mr Van Strien, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next item is the legislative initiative proposed by Mr Raemakers and Mr Van Meenen to amend the Childcare Act. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Raemakers and Mr Van Meenen on bringing the bill to this Chamber. Many im- or explicit obstructions have already been devised to stop the bill. As a final find, the Human Rights College has been asked whether they could not come up with any objections. It is interesting in this respect that shortly after that this college has correctly approved a vaccination obligation in the Czech Republic under certain circumstances, which we certainly do not support. But today, after all, we have a debate. I have a comment to make. From the point of view of integrity, it is desirable to make any personal interests known to you in a legislative proposal. I do, because I have very young grandchildren. I have every interest in ensuring that they grow up safely and that this bill is passed. I thought it was an acceptable conflict of interest myself. The alternative would be to have this bill dealt with exclusively by people without children, and I didn't think that was a good idea. But it's been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u66	Apart from my young grandchildren too, let's not talk about that: I want to understand. Did Mr Van Strien say that the Human Rights College has ruled on a case in the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u67	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u68	Did Mr Van Strien say that the Human Rights College has ruled on a case in the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u70	I can't imagine, because they're not authorized there. That is a European matter, not a Dutch one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u71	Yes, that was a European matter. I shall continue with my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u72	That was your reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u73	I have no further reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u74	Well, it was a question. Does Mr Van Strien really think that the Dutch Human Rights College is ruling on a case in the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u75	No, I am talking about the European College of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u76	Does Mr Van Strien mean to say that we, as the First Chamber, have asked the European College of Human Rights to give a ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u77	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u78	Because we didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u79	No, I'm just saying that the European College of Human Rights has ruled on a vaccination obligation in the Czech Republic. I think that is a more or less similar situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u80	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u81	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the core of the story. That is that you cannot inoculate a baby for a few weeks, because the immune system is not yet sufficiently developed and because vaccines are often not suitable for very young people. This vaccination therefore takes time, but in the meantime these children are susceptible to all kinds of diseases. Wherever it is possible, vaccination will take place as soon as possible. For example, pregnant women are already being vaccinated against dktp to protect very young infants. For children, the national vaccination scheme was up to a few years of vaccination in two, three, four and eleven months. Nowadays, that's three shots, three, five and eleven months. The programme shall be updated regularly. Then they get the shot against bmr and meningococcal at fourteen months. These dangerous diseases cannot be used to inoculate children under that age, but they can get them. Especially if they are in a group with older children who have not been vaccinated, the chance is seriously present. A disease such as whooping cough can also have fatal consequences for very young people. On average, the percentage of parents who do not allow their children to participate in the National Vaccination Programme is not that high. The percentage of children not vaccinated at all is below 5% in most municipalities. In 2020, 4.4% of all infants born in 2017 did not have any RVP vaccination. In addition, however, there is a large group of incomplete vaccinees. But you all know that in a river of an average of 50 centimeters deep, you can drown without any problems. That's the way it goes around here. For example, we find municipalities with a high percentage of non-vaccines especially in the so-called Biblebelt. There are religious objections to vaccination in these circles. We have a tradition of respecting it. I also note that, in addition to places with voters with religious considerations, there are places where anthroposophical types form a not insignificant group. Again, we have to do with a form of religion where treatment with mistletoe is higher than regular medicine. I have not yet heard that the mistletoe of the anthroposophers should be cut off with a golden pruning knife, as Panoramix in Asterix and Obelix does. Nor have I heard that it is necessary for them, such as Panoramix, to have the mistletoe of the oak. It is, as is well known, extra rare. To see how things stand in some municipalities in this area, I have looked at the website of the Ministry of Health. On this we find that there are quite a few places where the vaccination rate varies from 56% to 75%. These are all percentages far below the standard of group immunity. This clustering of non-vaccines can therefore create epidemics. For example, we had an outbreak of polio in both 1978 and 1992 and 1993, of measles in 1999, 2000, 2008, 2013 and 2014, of red dog in 2004 and 2005 and of mumps in 2007, 2011 and 2012. Mr. Chairman. You would have your young child, because of the age not yet vaccinated, in between. You understand that the PVV, with respect for people who do not want to have their child vaccinated, demands the same respect for parents who do not want to expose their young children to the dangers of children's centres allowing children from parents who refuse to participate in the National Vaccination Programme. Parents should be able to make a well informed choice for a child centre for their own child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u82	I have a question for Mr Van Strien. You indicate that safety is important, including for children who may not have been vaccinated yet. Then how do you view the advice and opinion of the RIVM that the current situation will not change if the law is passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u83	The opinion of the RIVM is an opinion. It's not based on facts. There are still no daycare centres where these choices can be made. The opinion is therefore an estimate of RIVM that it would not matter. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u84	Indeed, we cannot give each other faith, I agree with you. That's how it works. I have another question. RIVM now makes it very clear that the infections take place almost not in the childcare centres, but in their own social society. How do you read that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u85	I mentioned some of those epidemic outbreaks. Check it out in the Ministry's figures. All these outbreaks have been in areas with a low vaccination rate in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u86	I can imagine that very well, but it does not say that this has anything to do with the childcare centres. That's what this law is about. That's exactly what RIVM says. So you share the view of the RIVM, I note, that it is not taking place in the childcare centres, but that it is taking place in their social environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u87	I do not share that view. Why should the contamination not occur in childcare centres and only in the social environment? Those childcare centres are part of the social environment. That's where the contagion takes place. That's where the daycare centers come in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u88	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u89	I note that Mr Van Strien has a different interpretation of the RIVM statements than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u90	Following. At the nursery a very large group is by definition unvaccined. Up to 14 months, you don't have that bmr shot at all. This means that if this legislation were to come about, it would only be about such a small group that its effectiveness would be nil. It's not very strange what RIVM finds out. Indeed, it is true that the outbreaks have been particularly at primary schools and that kind of environment. It's actually not a problem at daycare. The problem lies elsewhere, and that is not going to solve this law, I ask Mr van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u91	This law is not for the children of a higher age. This law is in particular there to protect those children who cannot yet be vaccinated. Then I'm talking about the category of very young people until, say, 14 months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u92	And I say to Mr Van Strien that I would fully support the law if this were actually the effect of this law. I agree with Mr Van Strien that we must protect these children and that low vaccination rates due to all kinds of mistletoe protocols are not a good excuse or good reason to endanger children. We only see on all sides that this law is not going to have that effect. In fact, the proposers themselves already admit a little by not having that as the purpose of the law. The aim is not to improve public health. The law doesn't do that at all. The aim is only to improve transparency, but transparency can also be improved by making a phone call with the question: what is your policy on unvaccinated and vaccinated people? It already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u93	Sorry, I don't hear a new question here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u94	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u95	So my question is: why do you think that this law is effective if all the signals point to the fact that the legislation does not aim to be effective, but only to be more transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u96	This law is effective because it allows parents of young children to choose a nursery where there is the least risk of infection. That is why this law is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u97	My last question. Do you think the parents can't know that now? Is there something that now hinders parents from finding out what a day care centre has for vaccinees/unvaccines? Is there a barrier now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u98	Yeah, there's that barrier, 'cause most daycare centers don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u99	But there are daycare centers that do know. So if I want to have a choice as a parent, I can. In fact, there are even daycare centres that are currently working on such a policy. So the law doesn't prevent a daycare center from having policies on that. What does this law actually add?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u100	A lot of daycare centers don't ask that question. No daycare center is asking that question right now. Not a single daycare center! Daycare centres can be forced to actually ask that question. I think it is very important that they can ask the question: is your child participating in the National Vaccination Programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u101	Really the last question, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u102	Let me make a comment. It is true that daycare centres are asking that question at the moment. In fact, it is one of the reasons why the legislation is now being made. So that claim doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u103	You're not entirely in agreement. Then Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u104	I live in a part of the Netherlands, South Limburg, where hardly any people from the Biblebelt live, where hardly any anthroposophers live, but where in some places vaccination rates are low. However, it is characteristic of those places that many PVV voters live there. I have a question about that. What are you going to say to your voters? You are going to say to your voters: go to a daycare centre where only children who comply with the National vaccination programme are allowed, while RIVM has shown that Mr Van der Voort has just confirmed that this does not give any assurance that your child will not be infected with that dangerous disease. So, if your voters understand what you're saying, then you're just gonna hold them for a pacifier. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u105	I do not know what research Mr Verkerk has done among the PVV voters, but I think that a very quick conclusion is drawn here: there are many non-vaccines in South Limburg and there are many PVV voters there, so that will be about the same. I can't follow that reasoning, so I don't think I'm going to answer that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u106	Mr Van Strien does not have to answer that question either. What matters to me is not that I would suggest that there is a relationship between non-vaccinating and PVV votes. No, I am concerned that you have a lot of voters in South Limburg, for example in Landgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u107	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u108	And in Kerkrade. For those voters too, you keep a story here. If those voters know that what you're saying here simply doesn't apply to them, because if you refuse children who don't participate in the National Vaccination Programme, the chance that your child won't get infected isn't much higher... It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u109	It is clear that our advice is: have your child vaccinated. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u110	In any case, there are points on which the Christian Union and the PVV agree. This is one of those points, so thank you for that. That's where we're gonna hang out. I regret to say that you leave your constituents in South Limburg in the cold as far as I am concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u111	I find this very special, namely that the Christian Union is concerned about the PVV voters in South Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u112	At least I learned this afternoon that your Panoramix... difficult name.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u113	Panoramix.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u114	Can't pronounce it. I have a question for Mr Van Strien. It's about a point he just made that I appreciated in person. He indicated that there are people who, from their conscientious objection, indicate that they do not want to be vaccinated. Then he also makes a comment about people who are anthroposophical. Fine. But in the end of his speech just now, he indicated that he was okay with excluding those people from daycare centres. At least that's how I understood it. He shakes no, so I'm sure I'll get a better explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u115	We're not ruling anything out. We are simply saying that a nursery should be able to determine whether or not they allow children who are or are not fully vaccinated. We also have, to speak in Christian terms, churches of different religions. One goes to reform, the other goes to Catholic or reformed. In this way, we can also have several nurseries: either fully vaccinated or participating in the National vaccination programme, or not participating in the National vaccination programme. I do not see how that is discriminatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u116	I had noticed that of these churches once, but at least there is no such obligation. I think that this question is justified once again. What Mr Van Strien is now arguing, namely that nurseries should say that, is already the case. They're allowed to do that now. You're shaking no again, but in this case, I advise you to nod yes. Otherwise, I'm about to ask the initiators. For they themselves say it in their explanatory statement: that is possible now too. So what does it add?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u117	I think you should indeed be with the initiators for this question, because I hardly understand him. We're about to get a free choice. Daycare centres may refuse children who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme. They can't right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u118	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u119	At the moment, a daycare center can say: only children who have been vaccinated may enter. If that is the case now, then surely Mr Van Strien's speech does not cover the ground? Then it's settled what he wants. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u120	No, I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u121	Please continue your speech, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u122	The reasoning I found in the papers of the Lower House of the SP, and later of GroenLinks in this house, to reject the proposal, is not valid. That reasoning was that it might be easy for us to get a harder separation between nurseries where 100% is vaccinated and nurseries where a relatively lower number of children are vaccinated, because those children can no longer go to another place. This would achieve exactly the opposite. First of all, parents should not let their young offspring be the victims of people who, in our opinion, are irresponsible at risking the lives of their own children. Secondly, it appears that there are now numerous municipalities with an irresponsiblely low vaccination rate, where for parents who do comply with the National vaccination programme there are no safe daycare centres. The reasoning of the SP and GroenLinks from the Lower House and from this house is therefore, in my opinion, the world upside down. In short, Mr President, my group intends to vote in favour of this proposal. But before we get there, I do have an important question. We have recently been dealing with a corona epidemic, which has currently been fully vaccinated against 86.3% of the population aged 18 and over. That's the last number I found. The fact that you are vaccinated and apparently still very easy to get corona did not promote confidence in vaccination. There are also noises to vaccinate young people against corona, with the aim of protecting the elderly. Whether you like it or not, I don't like it. In our opinion, this discussion affects the basis for this bill. My question is therefore not so much to the initiators but, above all, to the Minister and the Secretary of State, whether, in the interests of the feasibility of this proposal, they can indicate that covid vaccinations will not be included in the National vaccination programme for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u123	I have a question about how Mr Van Strien tried to summarise the positions of GroenLinks and the SP. I don't have that very sharp. My question is this. I think he's the only one here in this house, at least from the speakers so far, who really believes that this bill is going to improve public health. If we focus that specifically on those areas, where he was also talking about "where the vaccination rate is now far too low, how is this bill going to increase the vaccination rate in those areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u124	If this bill is going to increase the vaccination rate in those areas, it will be taken into account. I also doubt whether it will increase the vaccination rate, but what it does do is that the young children of parents who do participate in the National Vaccination Programme protect against participation in a group in which the vaccination rate is simply too low. This means that in the longer term it will simply prevent serious accidents. The prevention of serious accidents does not mean that the vaccination rate will be improved. It could be, but it would be a side effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u125	By splitting groups, of vaccinees and unvaccinated people, one could say that for that smaller group that then in those areas at a vaccinated children's center..................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u126	So here's the deal. Those who opt for a daycare center with a full vaccination then make a conscious choice. If parents make the choice for a daycare center with incomplete vaccination, that is unfortunately the choice of those parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u127	I am not going to talk to Mr Van Strien about fundamental rights. That's always a complicated discussion. I'll talk about public health. The question of whether public health is served by this is not only an individual question, but also a collective demand. Mr Van Strien himself says that he does not expect this to actually increase the vaccination rate in those areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u128	I don't think that's going to increase the vaccination rate. It could be part of raising the vaccination rate. Mr. Chairman. I would like to await the answer of the Minister and the Secretary of State to the last question I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u129	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u130	Mr President, thank you very much. Let me also begin by thanking the initiators for their efforts. Our group appreciates the way in which you give a voice to parents' concerns and that you also want to put children's health first. The fraction of the Christian Union understands parents' unrest at a falling vaccination rate. After all, every parent has the best interests with his or her children and every parent wants to protect his or her children from dangerous infectious diseases. The proposal also fits in with the Dutch tradition in which the freedom of society to organise itself prevails. Despite this appreciation, the Christian Union Group is not yet convinced that this law is necessary and that it is desirable. She has four questions about this. The first question is whether this law is really necessary. The initiators believe so. I am thinking of page 4 of the explanatory memorandum. They point, among other things, to an investigation by the NIS which shows that children's centres that have applied a refusal policy have allowed unvaccinated children, because they were threatened with a lawyer. They also refer to the Disputes Committee, which says that there is currently no legal basis for a refusal of unvaccinated children. Our question is: can the initiators also justify this statement with factual data? Since the explanatory memorandum was written, more than three years ago, have there been legal proceedings against children's centres for their refusal policy? I myself have been in contact with Berend Botje's management. They have such a refusal policy, to put it that way. They've never had a lawsuit, to put it in the everyday language. Furthermore, the Council of State explicitly states that childcare centres are private enterprises that do not need explicit legal powers to formulate an admission policy to their services. In his view, children's centers have the freedom to refuse children. They shall, however, be limited, inter alia, by the requirements resulting from the right to equal treatment. The Council states that it is not necessary to amend the law, but that the desired clarity could also be provided in a different way, for example by a hand-out. I would like a response from the initiators and also from both directors. Mr. Chairman. The second question is whether the law does lead to the desired basis. The explanatory statement on page 4 states that, if adopted, the said law provides for children's centres the desired basis for refusing non-vaccinated children. This raises the question: does that law lead to such a basis? Or reworded: how solid is this base? The Human Rights College is very clear about this; see its letter of 9 April 2021. In his view, the present legislative proposal does not change the power of the college to check this against Article 7 of the Wpg if a children's centre refuses to allow unvaccinated children. Our group's question to both the initiators and the Secretary of State and the Minister is: how do you indicate this opinion of this college? Mr. Chairman. Our third question is whether this law provides a good instrument from the perspective of the underlying motivation of this bill, namely the decreasing vaccination rate. In preparing for this debate, I spoke extensively with the GGD Zuid-Limburg, particularly because the vaccination rate in South Limburg is on average half to a whole percent lower. In his view, such laws do not contribute to increasing the vaccination rate. They say: you have to invest in contacts with individual parents. They also say: it turns out that parents are open to a conversation and let themselves be persuaded. The experience of the corona epidemic has also taught us that topdown measures in the form of legislation can easily lead to social unrest and to increasing contradictions, especially since corona vaccinations are in general part of a national vaccination programme. I'd like a response from the initiators. In addition, our group has some questions for the Secretary of State. Does this law, in its view, constitute an important support for the action programme Further vaccination? Can the Secretary of State reflect on the experiences of the GGD Zuid-Limburg with regard to investing in the relationship with parents? What activities does the Secretary of State undertake in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u131	In fact, I only hear the percentages Mr Verkerk has just mentioned, and the lower vaccination rate in South Limburg by half to a whole percentage. So that's where we're instead of 95% at around 94% or 93%. The percentage of PVV voters in South Limburg is around 30% or 40%. Where does a physicist get this reasoning from?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u132	Perhaps I can come back to a previous interruption by Mr Van Strien. Yes, PVV voters also love me. That is just because I am a representative of the people, including for PVV voters. Secondly, I am now consciously speaking in general terms, for South Limburg, that average health is significantly less than that in the rest of the country. That's important. Do you want to hear percentages? Then wait a moment. I'll give you a few more percentages. Which explains why I was just interrupting you. I think I'm getting to the last point. Does this law lead to better protection? What is the purpose of the law? What are we trying to do? What do we want if some children's centers only allow children to participate in the National Vaccination Programme? It is, of course, about the protection of babies who, because of their age, cannot yet be vaccinated, children who cannot be vaccinated for medical reasons and children who do not build immunity despite vaccination. In this respect, the RIVM report of 25 September 2019 is also important. It's about the vaccination rate. This shows that a high level of protection can only be achieved by large homogeneous groups. In a children's center there is a group size of about 30 people. In this group size and at a 95% vaccination rate, the risk of infection for non-vaccines is approximately 70% if the virus is introduced. Even if vaccination rates increase to 99% with this group size, the risk of infection is still 60%. If I interpret this data correctly, I will be taking a break for a while, because I am not a doctor, but I am a representative of the people, as our President has so clearly said..... would mean that the effect of access restrictions is really limited and that access restrictions do not reduce the risk of infection. What does RIVM say? The need for openness between parents and management to inform each other with integrity and transparency in the event of outbreaks in their own family or in the vicinity, and to act accordingly, and to keep and warn the children at home. Mr President, I do not cite this study by the RIVM as a criticism of the proposed law; let that be clear. I'm not quoting it to put the idea of vaccination rate into perspective either. But our group is concerned with the question of whether we are not giving parents false hope of infection if they can opt for a children's centre with access restrictions. That is what the study points to. In line with RIVM's advice, should we not focus much more on openness, transparency and proper action in the event of outbreaks? Doesn't this road offer more protection than the current law? I'd like a response from the initiators and from the Secretary of State. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State if he can comment on what this study of RIVM means for vaccination policy and for policy in the event of outbreaks. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to a closure. The Christian Union has great sympathy for the idea behind this law to offer children a safer environment against infection by means of an access restriction. From that point of view, perhaps I should say: with pain in the heart, some preliminary conclusions. The first is that this law is not necessary. There's no law. The second is that this law does not provide a sufficient basis; I am thinking of the response of the College of Human Rights. The third is that we have doubts as to whether this law is the most appropriate instrument at national level. Finally, we feel that this instrument offers false hope for security. I shall come back to the situation in South Limburg. The vaccination rate bmr for infants up to 2 years varies at municipal level from 74% to 96% and for young people from 90 years of age from 76% to 97%. If I interpret the graphs of the RIVM correctly, the probability that non-vaccines in a children's center are infected with an outbreak without openness and transparency is between 75% and 95%. Perhaps the debate should be on this issue or on that issue too. Our group looks forward to the reaction of the initiators, the Secretary of State and the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u133	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs Bruijn-Wezeman has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to welcome the initiators and the two directors to this Chamber and wish them every success. It is for you all four the first debate in the First Chamber. Good luck! Mr. Chairman. It has been two years since this initiative law was presented to this Chamber for consideration. As a result, the result of the legislative proposal may have been somewhat out of the picture. In the past year we have all dealt with this other viral threat to public health, the COVID-19 virus. The world population has once again experienced what a huge impact a serious infectious disease has on all of our lives. We had, at least in most countries, forgotten what that is like and therefore became particularly unchalant when it comes to maintaining a vaccination rate that is necessary to avoid giving viruses a chance. Mr. Chairman. It is a problem when more and more people refrain from vaccination for whatever reason, because then the so-called group immunity is broken down. As a result, an infectious disease can flare up again, as in 2019, when a number of children were infected with a possible measles virus imported from abroad in a daycare center in The Hague. Recently, the WHO reported that vaccination programmes have reduced the number of measles deaths worldwide by 94% over the last 20 years: from over 1 million to 60,000 deaths per year. Those 60,000 are still too many, of course, because it will only be your child. Unfortunately, facts do not always speak for themselves anymore at this time, because more and more people think that vaccination should be called into question. Not the disease, but the vaccine is seen by them as the great danger. To protect public health, that is playing with fire. I myself am of the age that as a child I have experienced peers who have been severely handicapped by polio infection and during my work in the hospital I saw many sick children with measles. So I understand very well that there are parents who are concerned about the health of their children, when the measles virus in particular is gaining ground again. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group believes that these parents' concerns should be taken seriously. In this context, my group very much appreciates the initiative proposal, which allows parents to opt for childcare where only participants in the National Vaccination Programme are allowed. But whether this is enough to prevent a measles outbreak in the child center in question is still the question. Many of you have already mentioned this today. Should the government no longer do so, is my group's question. First of all, we believe that the government should be much clearer to citizens about the importance of vaccination and, above all, about the consequences of non-vaccinating. Texts like the ones we read on the website national vaccination program.nl do not exactly radiate that vaccination is important to protect yourself and others. For example, the website mentions: "Many infectious diseases are rare in the Netherlands. Yet vaccination is wise." Then why should you have your child vaccinated when a disease in the Netherlands is virtually non-existent? But it's not just about your child and it's not about the children in the Netherlands either, but it's also about the global fight against childhood diseases that don't have to happen anymore if we all contribute to that. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the government's not exactly appealing communication style in this matter. Vaccination in the Netherlands is voluntary, but to what extent is infectious disease control free of obligation for the government? The WHO report I have just referred to is being continued with the call to governments to bring the vaccination rate to the highest possible level and to actively combat the falling vaccination trend. I would like a response from the Secretary of State on how the government is going to respond to this call. What objectives has the government set? And what is the government going to do to bring public communication on the National Vaccination Programme into line with this? Mr. Chairman. The measles virus is highly contagious. To control this virus, a high vaccination rate is necessary. In the Netherlands the vaccination rate has been well below the critical lower limit of 95% indicated by the WHO. It is particularly risky for children under 14 months of age who are not yet able to participate in the National Vaccination Programme, but who may be in contact with infected people at child care. It is therefore understandable that parents of these very young children insist on measures at a low vaccination rate. They want to make sure that their child is taken care of in the safest possible environment. According to the VVD Group, therefore, a legislative proposal which clearly states that child care measures can be taken in case of insufficient vaccination rates is more appropriate. This initiative proposal states that parents can make an informed choice between child centres that allow or do not allow children who participate in the National Vaccination Programme. According to the initiators, the crux of the initiative proposal is to remove the freedom of choice and legal uncertainty for childcare providers wishing to pursue a refusal policy. In principle, private parties are free to set conditions for access to services and services. An argument in that context is then the duty of care. Childcare organisations should ensure a safe and healthy environment for the children and for the workers. The potential disadvantage of access policy is to limit the freedom of choice and the risk of unfair exclusion. In the context of this proposal, the question arises as to whether, in the context of the obligation of care, you can infringe physical integrity. For access you have to participate in the National vaccination programme, and vaccination is an invasive medical operation. In its opinion on Ethics and Legal Considerations COVID-19 vaccination of February 2021, I would like to add that the assessment of whether there is a restriction in these fundamental rights depends on whether alternatives are being offered. The alternative to this is the option for child centres that do not pursue a policy of refusal, the initiators said. The VVD Group supports the initiators' argument that this proposal does not exclude unvaccinated children from childcare. The initiators therefore expect that only part of the child centres will have a policy of refusal. In this context, however, pediatricians warn of the risk of raising infectious diseases in children in child centres who do not have a policy of refusal, the so-called cluster risk. In a letter dated 3 September 2021, this care of pediatricians is taken away by the RIVM, we interpret it in any case. I quote: 'The risk of raising infectious diseases in children in areas where child centres restrict access for unvaccinated children will be equal to that of other areas'. So there seems to be little obstacle to this initiative law, at least as far as this argument is concerned, if I am not left with the question of whether this initiative proposal is justified in removing parents' concerns. In the reply, the initiators wrote: "A child centre's policy regarding the admission of unvaccinated children is clearly a factor that can affect the health of a child staying at a child centre." Is that so? In the same letter from the RIVM we read: "The risk of infection in children is not directly affected by the access restriction. This means that the risk of infection remains the same in the children and adults." I would like a response from the initiators to this opinion of the RIVM. If the risk of contamination in child centres with access policies remains the same as in child centres without access policies, what does that mean for the legitimate purpose of this initiative law? In the reply, the initiators indicate that the legislative proposal can contribute to increasing the vaccination rate. RIVM says in an annex to the aforementioned letter: "The only thing that really helps is measures aimed at more vaccinations." Looking at the intervention ladder of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics, access limitation is a next step to move people into vaccination, when advising and persuaded have insufficient effect. However, the initiators do not opt for a general access restriction but for a partial access restriction. A general access restriction is expected to be more effective than the present differentiated proposal. However, we read in the documents that both the initiators and the government believe that the regulation of general conditional access is rather complex. The VVD Group regrets the fact that it is always pushing forward genuinely effective childcare measures as a kind of hot potato. We are not blaming the initiators for that. The public authorities have adequate health protection legislation, as stated in Article 22 of our Constitution, especially when it comes to sanding with fundamental rights. I would therefore like to make a few points in the next part of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u135	Do I understand correctly that Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman says: if I get my head straight, then I don't really expect the health effects of this bill to be very large?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u136	That's right, they won't be big. It will probably have a small advantage if you are going to have some sort of differentiated access policy. I can imagine that when parents register their children at a daycare centre with access restrictions policy, at least the conversation about vaccination will take place. In this sense, this might be stimulating, because the discussion about the importance of vaccination for all our children is taking place in more places than, for example, only at the consultation office or only at people who actually happen to look at the website. So it will be able to make a small contribution, but I do not expect a very large contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u137	Possibly, recognizable, too. That means that if public health were to be the goal, this would not be the right law. This may lead to other things, but public health is not the primary objective. I have the following question in this context. Depending on the time and opportunity, it is argued with some regularity that we should focus on the quality of legislation. I know that the VVD is also concerned about this and says: if this Chamber should do something, then it is paying attention to the quality of legislation. How does Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman then view a law whose primary objective, namely transparency, could not be legitimate as a basis for possible exclusion, where the public health objective is not sufficiently convincing to base it on it and where all other questions...? In other words, how does Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman not judge so much about the desirability of vaccination, which we all share, as well as about the quality of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u138	That's a good question. We have, of course, thought a great deal about this, as have you. We would have liked the legislative proposal to be a little more detailed in terms of the importance of public health, so that it could indeed take the step towards restricting access. We would have liked it to have been further developed as to why it should be specifically available in childcare. I shall now come to that in the second part of my speech. I would therefore like it to go in that direction. But once again, we are also in a process of balancing. I think that is what the conversation with many of you today is about. I would therefore also like to thank my fellow Members for their input on this issue. But what is at issue in the overall assessment is that the demand is there. I do think we should have it much better on the agenda. I think we should talk about this. And that's what the initiators do. In that sense, I would also like to take this into account in our consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u139	I would also like to thank the initiators for setting it up. I think that's the important point. That was at least a few years ago when they started this. But it is about how we work together to increase the vaccination rate, especially in the vulnerable areas and especially among groups that are less easy to reach. The question is whether this bill contributes to this. Well, all right, I'll listen to the rest of the argument, but in the consideration we'll have to make, the pressing point for us is the quality of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u140	That is indeed your approach. I just indicated in the first part of my answer that it could do something, because then we will have the conversation about it in several places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u141	In future, when it comes to the quality of the law, I would also like to ask a question about the need for the law. It is striking that the Council of State states that this law is not really necessary because entrepreneurs in children's centres already have this space. That would mean that this law is superfluous. If there is a party against unnecessary legislation, that is the VVD. Could you give your reflection on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u142	I think that this is reflected in part in the second part of my speech. Indeed, what is needed if you work with access restrictions? There's a lot of advice. Once again, in the second part of my speech, I would like to point out that as a government, you need to set a framework for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u143	Then I would like to wait and see what is said in the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u144	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u145	I was indeed on the point that I wanted to consider a number of matters in the second half of my speech. I believe that this will meet some of the questions raised by my fellow Members. In general, if vaccination levels are too low to achieve group protection, there is a conflict of duties between a constitutional duty of the government to promote health and respect for individual fundamental rights and the interests of citizens. In the context of the considerations of proportionality, I would like to refer in this context to the recent ruling of the European Court of Human Rights. The verdict has already been quoted more this afternoon. It's about the Vavricka case versus the Czech Republic. In that case, it is stated that in the interest of the child, in the fight against a declining vaccination rate, the government has a wide margin of freedom with regard to the imposition of vaccinations. Now, of course, access limitation, which we are talking about today, is a much less far-reaching step than a vaccination obligation. In the same ruling, the European Court of Human Rights also states that the exclusion of unvaccinated children in childcare is not inadmissible, provided that the child is not deprived of the right to education. But that only happens in a later phase of life. The European Court of Human Rights qualifies access restrictions as a protection measure. As far as proportionality is concerned, the European Court of Human Rights considers that measles vaccination is evidence of a substantial improvement in public health. So that is also what the WHO reports I have just indicated show.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u146	I have a question for Mrs De Bruijn. The documents, including the AMC's investigation, explicitly state that targeted communication works many times better than access limitation. You will find access restrictions less difficult than a possible vaccination obligation. I am going one step back, all the more so since the effectiveness of communication has proved to be greater than imposing something from above. Would you care to give your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u147	That's right. I just referred to the intervention ladder. The first intervention is indeed communication, run over. To get things done is the first step in communication, a conversation about it. A subsequent step on the intervention ladder may be to introduce a financial challenge. The next step is an access restriction. The final step is a vaccination obligation. So that's what it is. I didn't ask the Secretary of State for nothing just now: how can we put down a better appealing communication style as a government; that vaccination isn't because the disease is almost no longer in the Netherlands, but above all that you do it for yourself and that we should have the goal of helping out infectious diseases that we can combat? That is not so much because of our own children, but for all children worldwide who have less access to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u148	I think that our goal is the same, namely the highest possible vaccination rate and everything that is somewhat sickening is out of the world. Only, access limitation is explicitly at a lower level in terms of effectiveness than better and more personalised communication. That is where I have the question of why you say that we should find this law better instead of saying: let us ask the government for better and more effective communication, and let us also explicitly ask for commitments to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u149	You could say that with those more effective measures you just indicated, we reach about 90% of the population. But the fact is that you need at least 95% for measles vaccination to be effective. So at some point, the reduced yield of even more communication may not be sufficient to reach that 95%. In fact, that is what we are saying: if communication and such means fail, should you not at some point take a further step on the intervention ladder?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u150	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u151	But you see restricting access as a next step, while the effectiveness of that measure is significantly less than that of effective communication. So you are taking a step forward that has been proven to be less effective. I don't understand. Can you explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u152	I'm not saying I'm just taking a step forward. I started my speech with better communication about our vaccination policy, more appealing communication towards citizens. That's what I started. I've asked questions about that, too. Only, of course, we've been below that 95% for a very long time. We can't get up there, and our mission is also to get the vaccination rate as high as possible. So I'm saying, if that doesn't work anymore at some point, then you should see if you need to do more to increase that vaccination rate. In today's debate, at least I am trying to ask whether this proposal is sufficient or whether you should look at childcare at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u153	I still have a question about the information strategy. I referred to the debate in South Limburg. This is an average increase in the vaccination rate for e.g. bmr from 92% or 92.5% to 95% or higher. What's the G.D.D. saying? "We can't do that with general PR solutions, but we can do that if we engage in dialogue with individual parents. That is indeed a success." That would mean that it would be a good idea, in line with what the CDA colleague said, to continue that track and not to go any further on that intervention ladder. Can you reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u154	No different than what I just said about that last step. Maybe more is needed after all. But I also pointed out that if you decide whether or not to pursue this policy with parents and children's centres, that is of course an extra place where you are going to have the conversation about this. That is of course what this initiative proposal does. Parents can choose not only about vaccination, but also at a child center: "Hey, wait a minute, here parents have decided that vaccination is the norm and that we all have to put our shoulders on it. Do I or do I not sign up at this child center?" You'll have another conversation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u155	I also asked this question to the board of Berend Botje. He said: "At the time we turned from no policy of refusal to a policy of refusal, we did indeed have kitchen tables. That has also led to more people being vaccinated. But then parents select themselves, because they say: at this children's center my child must have been vaccinated. So they don't even go there anymore." In the beginning it has some effect, but later it has no effect. That's the experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u156	That means you didn't reach those parents with any other communication either. Maybe you should say that they can't choose anymore. In fact, that is the proposal we are making: every daycare centre should have such a policy, because then they will no longer be able to select themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u157	Finally, Mr. Verkerk. No? Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u158	Building on this: this discussion has thus already taken place without this legislation. You say that if this legislation comes into effect, that conversation will also take place. But that assumes that that conversation could not take place now, when there are already daycare centres that are simply pursuing this policy or where parents can ask if they have policies on it. I wonder whether this legislation will allow this discussion to take place so much more than is already possible. I would like your response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u159	Daycare centres ask us: be clear that we are allowed to conduct such policies. I think that would make a number of day-care centres that do not have that policy at the moment, so that they are going to do it. We can also ask the initiators to what extent they expect this additional children's centers to cross the line when we do not allow them to make that choice through a legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u160	Then I refer to the letter sent to us by the College of Human Rights, which states that this legislation will not change the position already held by nursery homes. They can already pursue policies. They must then prove that this is not contrary to the AWGB, and that it will continue to be so. De facto, therefore, nothing changes, except that there is a law that makes it possible to do something that is already possible. If we come back to the question of what meaningful legislation is, then the question is whether it is a law that we should want if we see that it can only contribute marginally to the degree of vaccination. That's unproven. But when I hear the stories about Berend Botje, I think the conversation always sharpens the thinking about that. Can't you do that better by providing better information to start that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u161	I note, in reply to Mrs Gerkens' question, that the initiators have not gone down this path for nothing. They saw above all that a lot of children's centers do not dare to make this decision, because they are afraid that they will eventually end up in court. That is also why I say: if we remove this obstacle, hopefully more daycare centres will opt for this policy. You may say that there are no lawsuits yet, but you know as well as I do the following. There is only one parent who does not agree with this and who may not be for another child, or who is going to have procedures like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u162	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u163	I couldn't agree more. Only, my argument is that this law is not going to take away that. The whole framework around it is so unclear that a parent can still say: "Why are you pursuing this policy for totally unvaccinated people? My child hasn't been vaccinated. You should allow a few unvaccinated children." Then we still have a lawsuit. I think that this law does not provide enough tools for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u164	Good. That's your weighting. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u165	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u166	Mr. Chairman. In a aforementioned report of the Health Council, with the significant title Between doing nothing and requiring it, it is indicated that conditional access as an instrument can be developed by industry organisations by means of self-regulation. However, the public authorities need to establish a balance-sheet framework for this. The government has also asked for advice from the Vermeij Committee. In its opinion, the Vermeij Committee, which says a lot of sensible things, establishes a relationship between the level of vaccination and the access policy for childcare. Moreover, the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, which I have quoted, does not indicate that the level of vaccination is a determining factor in the ability to take measures such as the restriction of access. The Annex to the RIVM letter further states that there is no scientific basis for a hard minimum vaccination rate to prevent outbreaks in daycare centres. Also, the lower limit at setting level according to the RIVM does not have any value, as group protection is always limited by the age distribution in the daycare centre. Mr. Chairman. In order to respond to the WTO's call, therefore, we must make every effort to achieve the highest possible level of protection for the entire population and thus to form a shield around the young children who are still unprotected. In my group's view, a declining vaccination rate should be a trigger for action. My question to the Secretary of State is about the government's previously communicated intentions to come up with additional legislation. Or is it waiting for, for example, another initiative proposal that is already being prepared in the House of Representatives? Mr. Chairman. There is no government support for this initiative law. Or has the position of the new directors changed? Is the government considering an alternative legislative proposal and can it outline its outline and indicate the time frame for it to come? I would like an answer from the directors. It could help my group to consider the initiative proposal, which takes parents' concerns seriously, but which may not be sufficiently effective to actually address these concerns. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u167	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn. Perhaps it is good for the Acts to recall that Mrs Van Gennip has indeed been here earlier, only in a different capacity. But we all know very well that on 1 March 2016 Mr Van Meenen, together with Mr Bisschop and Mr Rog, defended his own initiative proposal More effective regulation of educational supervision with so much delay that it was adopted a week later together with a motion for a resolution tabled on that occasion by Mr Bruijn on the adequacy requirements. But this is for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u168	I understand this rebuke of yours. So I didn't get enough information in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u169	It was an addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u170	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u171	Nor will I forget that this motion was voted against by the Party for Animals and the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u172	It sounds like a threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u173	I shall come back to the question I asked Mrs De Bruijn. The Council of State states that this law is not necessary, because such entrepreneurs already have the room to indicate this restriction, all the more so as the bearing ground would be children's health. So they already have that opportunity. Therefore, according to the Council of State, this law would not be necessary. Can you respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u174	Yes. I have, of course, read the opinion of the Council of State, but I have also read the opinion of the Health Council, from which I just quoted, about doing nothing and making it compulsory. That was due to the restriction of access under the corona policy. There it is clearly stated that vaccination is in fact an invasive medical act and that it is abraded with another fundamental right, namely protection of physical integrity. For this to happen, as a legislator, you need to establish a framework for consideration. So I've been put on that line. Moreover, this opinion is more recent. It was given in the context of the coronapandemic, following the opinion of the Council of State on the initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u175	Yet my question has not been answered. The Council of State says that this possibility is already there and that that law is simply not necessary. That is a legal ruling by a very authoritative body. Could you respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u176	I have responded as I have just responded. There are also other advisory bodies that seem to think differently about this. I know that the Council of State is the highest body, but the opinion I have just quoted is of a more recent date. Perhaps the rulers can explain how they make that weighting. This is as I estimate it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u177	Finally, Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u179	Finally, I would like to ask Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman how she weighs those two grounds. You have transparency and public health. For public health, it could yield marginal benefits, but in particular for the discussion on this issue. The discussion about this is again more about freedom of choice. My question to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman is next. One of the key elements of the Council of State's position was that transparency and freedom of choice are insufficient grounds for containment or for an exclusive measure. Public health might be, but that is not going to work. So my question to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman is: how does she consider the position of the Council of State, with transparency and freedom of choice as an argument, that restricting in this case the rights of parents who want to register a child cannot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u180	We have a situation in which we in the Netherlands recognise a great many positions of minorities. We have a general understanding of that. For example, in education and also in many institutions, including childcare, we see that we simply leave a lot of things to parents, to the private initiative, and that we also offer scope to talk, for example, about health, about childcare policy; all these aspects that parents consider important, such as the educational environment, the way in which a child is taken care of. Only, we should not talk about vaccination, because that is a heavier weighting. At the same time, there are people on the other hand who say, okay, I don't want my kids vaccinated. They make that choice, but they can bring other children into insecurity. So I am sure that at least the possibility of having this conversation in daycare centres should be offered. Then I come back to the principle of freedom of choice. Daycare should be able to say at some point: we believe that as an organisation, in consultation with parents, we should be able to say that vaccination is the norm. I would also like to offer room for that. Suppose that at some point this conflicts with other things, such as whether or not you are allowed to conduct an access policy or whether or not you are not allowed to refuse children. If at some point there is tension in this kind of organisation, I would like to give the opportunity to at least, if there is agreement, to pursue this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u181	Thank you. Mr Ganzevoort a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u182	Now we're really getting to the heart of the matter, as far as I'm concerned. It's not about: well, you can find some of it and you can't find any of it. No, the Council of State's opinions state that we are dealing here with fundamental rights. That's the discussion. When it comes to fundamental rights, we must always pay particular attention, especially in this Chamber. It's about whether you're making an indirect distinction between one group and the other group. On this point I would like to ask Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman: is this something more than a preference for this or that? It is possible to restrict fundamental rights, but then public health should be the argument. Not freedom of choice, which is not sufficiently legitimate ground, based on fundamental rights. If public health is insufficient in terms of its effect, then the freedom of choice for restricting fundamental rights cannot be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u183	If by means of fundamental rights restriction you mean exclusion from access, I have already mentioned in my story that you are not excluded from childcare. If one conducts a particular policy with one another in a particular organisation on these issues, you are not in the right place and you have to go to another care facility. That makes it difficult again. As far as public health is concerned, there must be more than this proposal. On the other hand: Is this something that really limits the freedom of choice, when it comes to that fundamental right? Then I say: no, there are plenty of opportunities, namely nurseries that do not pursue that policy and host parents. The argument that this would create a cluster risk of more infections in childcare where there is no access policy is undermined in the RIVM letter. At least that's how I interpret the letter from the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u184	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u185	Now, finally. I am sorry that this point of accessibility and exclusion is so easily ignored. It has also been said by colleagues here that it is really much more complicated in certain parts of the country. There is also a point of principle to it. If it is, it must be possible to weigh it thoroughly, because it is indeed about access and exclusion. That does affect fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u186	If that is the conclusion, then you do not agree with the opinion of the Council of State. Or do we misunderstand each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u187	We're walking 15 minutes now. There will be committee meetings shortly, and I hear long questions and even longer answers. Mr Schalk has just one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u188	Let me go on about the Council of State, because then perhaps that problem will be out of the world as well. I can match that to my question. I understand that Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman clearly points out that it is ultimately about transparency and freedom of choice. Public health can be an effect, but that is not enough. On the contrary, the Council of State states that this law is not necessary. I am actually asking the same question as Mr Van Strien. If it is now clear, also from the reply of both the proposers and the government, that the daycare centres currently have the legal space to do what Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman is asking for, then why this law, which restricts fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u189	I come back to an earlier answer I gave, namely that the initiators are not reassured that this law is not necessary. They will have to respond to this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u190	In this Chamber, motions are sometimes tabled by parties because they are not reassured that something may not be quite right in the law. The VVD is actually the party that always states: we are not going to support a motion that is not necessary, because the law is already there. Now there is a law that already offers the possibility. At least I haven't heard from anyone that it's not. Then where did the VVD's position go? The party always tries straight to make good legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u191	Part of that has already been included in my plea. Actually, we think it's gonna take more than that if you're really gonna increase the vaccination rate. Some of you are still convinced that you can come a long way with persuasion and information. We see at some point that that's a trail that doesn't lead to the vaccination rate we need. Then we say: come up with good legislation that goes further in that. On the other hand, doing nothing is not an option as far as we are concerned. The initiators are not confident. So I'd also like to hear their side of the story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u192	Mr. Schalk, I'm sure your speaking time will begin now. You'll be the next speaker. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u193	That's very good, Mr. Chairman. I understand that; we all want to hear the answers from the initiators, but also from the government. Suppose the government says later: we do indeed need a better campaign to boost the vaccination rate, and we will take it with us that daycare centres have legal space to act on this. Is that enough for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u194	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u195	I myself asked a number of questions about this to the government. I really want to wait for the answer to that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u196	Thank you. Then I suggest we move on to the next speaker. That is Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u197	Mr President, you have the opportunity to just put ten minutes on the plate. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my respect for the perseverance of the initiators. Not only have they submitted a bill four years ago, but they have also defyed everything and everyone. After all, all the advisory bodies that could be of any relevance have now made their point. When I look over that battlefield, all the signals are pretty much red. However, four years later, we are now in a debate with the proposers. But this Chamber is not there to reward the virtue of perseverance, but to judge the object of that perseverance, namely the law, on the well-known aspects of legality, feasibility and enforcement. In addition, this Chamber also feels a special responsibility when legislation is shattered with the Constitution. The present law seeks to justify an infringement of the Constitution, at least on the AWGB resulting from Article 1 of the Constitution. It is precisely then that it is right to lay down the proposal along the bar of proportionality, subsidiarity and also effectiveness. Let us now turn to the subject and first to the issue of proportionality. If we have learned anything in recent times, it is that we should not force people to vaccinate and that we should avoid permanently excluding people from participation in society. Of course, that also applies to children, even when they are very young. There is a very difficult point in this law, because although the initiators argue that the aim of the bill is to achieve transparency in the market for children's centres, it is actually about providing legal space for holders of children's centres to refuse non-vaccinated children. This leads to a form of compulsion, especially in a society in which everyone is supposed to participate in the labour market. Parents who depend on child care may feel forced to have vaccination. This also leads to a form of exclusion. If you haven't been vaccinated, you can be kicked out. Now it is about childcare, but the step to other places where children meet, such as education, is small if we cross this line. Does the government see this danger? After all, many childcare centres are located in schools where primary school children are also taught during the day. All this because of something that played a few years ago, when it turned out that the vaccination rate had deteriorated slightly. The figures have already been mentioned enough today. In any case, this will lead to far-reaching steps in this legislative proposal, with the necessary questions still to be asked. These are, for example, questions relating to the principle of subsidiarity, the starting point being that the least radical means of achieving a particular objective must be used. If the objective is to lay a legal ground under the jurisdiction of childcare centres, the slightest means is to do nothing. After all, the Council of State on several sides argued that childcare centres are private enterprises. A quote from the Council of State, especially for Mr Van Strien and Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman: "As such, they do not need explicit legal powers to formulate an admission policy to their services. Even without the proposed legislative changes, childcare centres have a margin of freedom to refuse children." Just to be sure, I'm gonna ask you if this statement by the Council of State is correct. That is what I am asking both the proposers and the government and the secretaries of state. I assume the answer will be affirmative. It is striking that the same reasoning is used by the Health Council in an opinion on the use of corona vaccination certificates by private institutions and companies. Private parties have the freedom to impose a vaccination certificate as a condition for access to services and facilities. This also applies to access to children's centres, as these are often private companies. Do the petitioners agree with the Health Council that this was true for corona vaccinations? If not, have they acted against this in the legislative processes around covid? If so, why is there a different regime now? In other words, why this bill? I ask this all the more because we are dealing with an important side effect, namely that parents feel more compelled to have their children vaccinated. I didn't make that up, but the initiators say so themselves. They expect that, after the entry into force of this bill, a significant proportion of children's centres will adopt a policy of differentiation based on vaccination status for both staff and children. The proposers see as a positive result of this bill that it may be a push for doubting parents to have the children vaccinated. That is not the primary objective, but apparently it is an objective. Do the proposers agree with me that this so-called side effect can be compelling, or at least seen as compelling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u198	I have a brief question for Mr. Schalk. We were just discussing the advice of the Health Council. Why do you leave aside the phrase I mentioned in my speech, namely that the legislator must set a framework for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u199	Maybe because you'd already read that sentence. No, that's very lame. I didn't mention that phrase. It has to be done in time, so I've just taken a short quote. But I agree with you. You'll see this at the Council of State. It gives us a few arguments that can help us think the other way. I find the statements of the Health Council and the Council of State rather firm. That's confirmed by the RIVM, but I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u200	Of course, I've read them both. I was hoping it would be done with that. I have added the point about the fact that the public authorities have to establish a balance-of-payments framework, precisely because this is based on fundamental rights. In my opinion, this is also the dilemma that the initiators are concerned with and which they actually started: can't people still go to court? The question now lies again with the initiators, but I would like to remind you of that part of the quote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u201	Sure. I am very pleased that Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman is doing so, but the balancing framework was not the basis for the proposers to submit this law. That's what came up in the end. That is an important aspect that needs to be taken into account, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u202	Please continue your argument, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u203	This brings us to the questions of effectiveness. Is what the proposers want to achieve? It is striking that raising questions about purpose and means has led to an increasing tension on this bill. It is not for nothing that this Chamber has asked for additional information from the Council of State on exclusion from childcare centres of children and workers who have not been vaccinated out of religious or philosophical beliefs. In its reply, the Council of State pointed out the scope available through a special law, the lex specialis, which would allow an exception to the prohibition of indirect discrimination. The proposers have embraced this way out, you might say. This gave rise to further questions to the Human Rights College, because, according to the Council of State, as a result of such a lex specialization, there would no longer be room for a different balance of interest by the judge or the Human Rights College in concrete cases. However, the Human Rights College argues that the proposed initiative law does not change its competence to conduct an individual review. The College shall retain the power to examine and assess "whether the decision/behaviour of the relevant employer or provider of goods or services in the particular case is actually covered by the exception to the prohibition of distinction and is therefore justified'. There is therefore room between the interpretation of the Council of State and the College. What is the reaction of the proposers to this room? And how does the government weigh this discrepancy? Do the proposers and the government agree with the SGP Group that this will not lead to the desired legal clarity? Mr. Chairman. Another important point is that of making an indirect distinction on the basis of religion and belief. That is not, by definition, prohibited, but it must serve a legitimate purpose. According to the Council of State, the objective of transparency is not sufficient. However, the initiators make it clear that one wants to distinguish on the basis of vaccination status with the secondary aim of protecting the health of children and therefore public health in general. This would be a legitimate objective and would justify an indirect distinction on the basis of religion or belief in the AWGB. Well, fortunately, we still have an RIVM, an institute that has in recent years set out the direction of all kinds of measures, which have, by the way, been supported by the proposers. RIVM clearly states that this bill will in no way contribute to improving the safety of children's centres. The introduction of access restrictions does not affect the risk of contagion in children or adults; it has just been exchanged in a small debate between Mrs Vos and one of the other speakers. After all, the composition of the group at children's centres is too diverse for the possibility that group immunity by vaccination could play a relevant role. RIVM indicates that group immunity within the daycare facility does not play a role, but is only relevant at population level, either national, regional or local. With the RIVM's replies, the second basis under this bill would be to abolish the exception to indirect discrimination on the basis of religion or belief, namely the protection of public health. Mr. Chairman. I come to some conclusions and ask the proposers and the government to reflect on them. The approach of the bill is noble: transparency for parents as regards choosing a children's center and protecting children's health. However, the bill starts with the parents' right to make an informed choice and ends with a hidden form of vaccination urge, leaving less and less room for the parents' own informed choice. Two. If the grounds for protecting public health fall under this bill, it is clear that the indirect distinction based on religion or belief is not justified. In other words, the Council of State has confirmed this. Third. Similarly, the proposal does not solve the risk for children's centres to become involved in long-term and costly legal proceedings because of a policy of refusal of unvaccinated children. The Human Rights College makes it very clear that in any case it remains competent to examine specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u204	That puts you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u205	That brings me to the end of my speech. We are very curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u206	Pretty much or all of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u207	All the way, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u208	I recognize many of Mr Schalk's critical questions, but I am struggling a little with my own intellectual honesty on the following point. As far as I am concerned, Mr Schalk is right to say that you are creating indirect discrimination with this line of policy. But he also says that there are children's centres already running such a refusal policy. My question is whether there is the same thing. Doesn't that also mean that they're making an indirect distinction, which shouldn't be done with the same argument? Could Mr Schalk reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u209	I'm just trying to understand what Mr Ganzevoort is saying. Would he like to repeat it briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u210	There's a double argument. One is: with this bill you create a form of indirect distinction, the objection of the Council of State, insufficient legitimate ground, etc. I recognize that point of criticism very strongly. But another argument by Mr Schalk was: there are already daycare centres, so this law is not necessary. But aren't the other daycare centres, which already have a policy of refusal, guilty of making indirect distinctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u211	I think Mr Ganzevoort has a good point there. If a distinction is made there, then you must always test it, and that can also be tested. The same applies, of course, when this law is passed. But that actually brings the legislator closer to the point. Maybe that's gonna make it harder for me, too. Is that the beginning of an answer for Mr Ganzevoort?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u212	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u213	This gives you as a legislator to "go in that route" when you already know as a legislator that it's going to sand. It is clear that it is already capable of sanding, but at least that does not lead to any serious problems at the moment. So you ask yourself: is this law so useful and necessary and should you want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u214	Thank you, that helps. I myself am struggling with this in my own considerations. That is why I am asking this question. You say very clearly that the review by the College of Human Rights will always be possible. That is already the case and will continue to be the case. Ultimately, there must be a weighting of whether there is sufficient consistency in the policy to make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u215	Yes, but there is also the fact that when the legislator and therefore we in the First Chamber say that we are going to accept this law, you give some kind of legitimacy to something that may not be legitimate. That's what I find difficult about this law. I wonder if that's what we want. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u216	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Vos on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u217	Thank you, Mr President. I see that I have ten minutes, but I will try to skip a lot of my input because a lot has already been exchanged, including on points that our group also has. Let me first congratulate the authors of this law, because I know it is monks' work. I know exactly how it goes, too. There's a miscarriage, you're a member of parliament calling "I'm gonna fucking make a law" and you're gonna find out that making a law is pretty complicated. You come to what our great stirrer called Den Uyl: the narrow margins of what you can do. There are all kinds of practical and legal objections. There has been a lot of exchange with colleagues on this issue. And then you're still standing here after so many years. You actually started before the corona time. In the meantime, we look very differently at vaccination. I would like to congratulate you on that. However, this does not prevent our group from expressing our doubts about this law. I would like to take you to the dilemma we have with this law. The best example is always one's own practice. It's about Little Fox; people on social media probably know her. When my boyfriend and I were looking for a nursery for her, proximity was actually the only criterion we had. It just needs to be close, so we can easily drop the kid and get it. Of course, we were both very busy. We found a crèche that was very close. I didn't feel entirely senang with that, but well, we had found a daycare center, with waiting times. At a Friday afternoon walk I know it was Friday, because the daycare was open and it was quiet. We arrived at a small nursery, secluded, also at the park, a little further away, a few hundred meters. Matron was outside. We asked, "What is this, is this a school?" No, she said it's a daycare center. You guys want to come inside and take a look? We were allowed to look inside and she told us: this is an anthroposophical nursery and I am still independent; we only have six groups and we decide how we do it ourselves. We came in, we got there to Lenteklokje, the group where my daughter ended up, and we didn't regret for a moment. And the big question is whether the parents of the Little Fox, that little baby, if this bill had been there, wanted to know the answer to the question: do you have vaccination policy; do you refuse children over 14 months of age who have not been vaccinated? That is a bit of the dilemma that we, as a group, have with a small child and also with a few grandfathers. We therefore have doubts about the usefulness and necessity of this law. We can very well empathise with parents who want that freedom of choice and see that there is a great individual right in this law, but as Mr Ganzevoort said, we also have to deal with the collective. The collective may be poorly related to the individual rights of people. I am very curious to hear the answers to Mr Ganzevoort's questions. What appears to be an apparently small change..... it is also a very small law... brings about a boom of practical to and with reasonable fundamental objections about fundamental rights of one and the other's fundamental rights. As you know, the PvdA Group is always very open. We always look very closely at laws before we judge. For the purposes of assessing this law, we would therefore like to see whether this law is really useful in practice, whether it is really good for public health and freedom of choice, and whether it is already words that are not going to provide false safety. The Council of State did not see much use in the proposal, but was not necessarily opposed either. The only parties likely to be affected by the proposal are childcare centres. I am thinking in particular of that little self-employed crèche, of which I do not see the headmistress keeping such an administration, even though she would like to. I don't see her chasing after all those parents who have that evidence after 14 months. If we had indeed gone to another nursery, is there no false security? Because she won't be the only one who can't do all that. And, as has already been changed here, also following the RIVM report, children can get infected in a lot of different ways. Fortunately, it is very rare in the Netherlands. If she had gone to Berend Botje and a refusal policy was pursued there, that does not mean that she is completely safe. Don't you have to tell parents that, too? A wide-ranging exchange of views was held on the complex tour undertaken by the initiators by adding public health. So I am not going to go into that, but I am very curious about the answers of the initiators. The same applies to the possible negative effects, such as the emergence of fireplaces. RIVM has written a lot about that too. Then you will come back to the question of whether you are not going to offer false security to parents who believe that they have found a crèche that does not have a policy. Then I have some questions for the rulers. 'Cause there are. I don't know now whether to ask the Secretary of State or the Minister. Is it not, in the end, safer and better for public health if the vaccination rate is increased in a different way than by encouraging children's centres? We also find it a little strange to decentralise responsibility for public health to children's centres. That is also a question for the initiators: do you agree with us that this places responsibility on children's centres? There has also been a detailed discussion of the fact that children's centres can already do this. I am going to the Human Rights College, which still considers itself competent to make statements on this matter. I am curious to hear the answers of the initiators. And one last question is... no, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm just skipping, but I still have a question for the government. I read in RIVM's answers that as a parent you can also choose to vaccinate your child before bmr, for example after six months. Is that possible, too? What is the reason why that happens in 14 months? For example, I could have chosen to send my child to the anthroposophical nursery, which I finally did, but to vaccinate her earlier, so that she is safe at least. You know that parents of small children want to minimize any risk. Is that possible? Can you voluntarily ask for prior vaccination? And another question to the government. What is the government going to do to implement all the opinions in the report of the Vermeij Committee with the very nice title Grabs for each other? Does the Minister agree with our group that the proposal before us wrongly lays down the protection of public health at individual childcare centres, which is actually a matter for the public authorities? I'm just gonna lock up. The PvdA Group very much agrees that the vaccination rate should be increased and that we should do everything we can to increase the vaccination rate. The big question with this bill is: is it going to help, does it not lead to false security and can we not take other measures to protect the safety and health of our children? In fact, we find it difficult to accept that one's freedom can lead to another's deadly disease. It will help us if the initiators can convince us of the positive effects of this law, on parents, on children, on public health, but also on the administrative burden of childcare centres, because they are already having a fairly difficult time. I have one last sentence before I answer Mr Van der Voort's question. Let's get back to the dilemma. Would the parents of Little Fox have wanted to know about the vaccination policy of the childcare center? Probably. And would this law have made them another choice? That is indeed the very big question we hope to answer the rest of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u219	I was just triggered by Mrs Vos' comment that the freedom of choice of one would lead to illness or perhaps even the death of the other. I just want to make sure I heard that right. Is it true that you said that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u220	That was indeed a sentence I read. In theory, it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u221	I don't quite understand. Could Mrs. Vos perhaps explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u222	The freedom of choice of one not to vaccinate... It has to do with the corona epidemic that we have seen over the last few months, but I can remember a TV program in which one of the foundly reformed denominations said: I will not be vaccinated and if that means that another will get a deadly disease, then that is a choice I unfortunately have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u223	Okay. But I understand from that that it is not specifically about this bill and that the freedom of choice given to parents by this bill would not lead to the death of children elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u224	That's right. That would still be the case if we were talking about polio, but fortunately that is not the case in the Netherlands. No, this was generally said that our group finds it difficult to understand that, in the worst case scenario, one person's freedom of choice can lead to a very nasty illness or another's fatal illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u225	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u226	Then I am glad that this argument does not go through the process of dealing with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Van Pareren on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the two initiators, Mr Raemakers and Mr Van Meenen. A great deal has already been said today about this initiative law. That is why I would like to outline as briefly as possible our position on this subject within my group after detailed consideration. My group believes that the parents of children should have the choice to have their children properly taken care of in a daycare centre where there is absolutely maximum safety and protection. My group also recommends vaccination, but does not want to impose it. It has to be everyone's choice to have you vaccinated or not. An addition to this is that here, when we talk about vaccinations and daycare centers, we are talking about children. They are under parental responsibility and therefore it is up to parents to consider this for their children. There are several reasons why daycare facilities should be allowed, not to impose the obligation, to ask children and employees about their respective vaccination status. Parents should have the choice whether or not to send their child to a nursery based on sound information. They may know whether or not other children have been vaccinated. Care for their child also includes the prevention of diseases. Older unvaccinated children or employees may infect younger children who may not yet be vaccinated. For example, a child aged 10 months can be infected with measles by an unvaccinated child of one and a half months, because the vaccine is only given from the age of about 12 months. Parents and employees are free not to cooperate with the request to provide vaccination status anonymously to third parties. They are in no way forced to do so. Our group supports this proposal in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u229	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Mrs. Prince has another question for you. It's best to answer it from behind the microphone. Go ahead, Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u230	I do have a question for Mr Van Pareren. The situation you are describing that parents should be able to choose already exists. What is the added value of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u231	Thanks for the question. The added value of this law is that it takes another step to clarify the whole process in which parents are in. There are questions about parents. It is our opinion that this is being put into practice again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u232	Could you clarify this a little bit, because I do not understand that. That's what we can do now. Why would this law suddenly change that, when it is in fact stated that this law is superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u233	In any case, this law gives a lot of clarity. The law has dealt in detail with a whole range of aspects. This clarity helps parents to be sure in their decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u234	Can you tell me which aspects you are referring to? You say he gives a lot of extra aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u235	The aspects that we consider very important in this law are that it is made very clear that there is no obligation on parents, that there is transparency for parents about the daycare facilities and that there is therefore also freedom of choice. These aspects are very important to us. This law has dealt with this further and has provided more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u236	I don't see what this law adds, but I understand that this is relevant to you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u237	I imagine you have a different opinion. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u238	I would like to comment on what I heard Mr Van Pareren say about the fact that there should be no coercion on parents to make it clear whether or not the children have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u239	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u240	I don't get it very well. That is precisely what a daycare center should ask for for this law, namely: can you tell me if your child has been vaccinated or not? Whether or not a parent appreciates a daycare center pursuing policies, it may also be that you just want to take your child to the daycare center. Yet you have to confess colour to your child, with all the risks it entails. It is indeed medical information. That is actually a bit contrary to what Mr Van Pareren says, namely that parents are not forced to do so. No, they're forced. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u241	I understand you're asking questions about that. That is why I would like to give a more detailed explanation. You're talking about coercion. But we are saying that there is also a compulsion because we do not see compulsion as a free choice. We fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u242	But in my opinion, the free choice is rather limited, as I said in my speech when you know that the market is tight and that the waiting times are long. So there may indeed be no alternative close by. So to what extent can you actually speak of freedom of choice if you are forced to deliver information that you do not really want to deliver, if you do need to, when you really don't think it's important? To what extent do you really have that freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u243	We consider public health to be very important. I imagine parents might as well think that's very important. With this there is also an opening for those parents to be sure that if their children go to a daycare center, those children also have a safe stay and are in an environment that the parents enjoy. That's fun in the form of sitting in a safe environment with vaccinated other children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u244	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u245	But then I refer to what Mrs Prins said, namely that this is already possible. This legislation does not solve that problem, because there is no such problem. So I'll ask why you're in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u246	In our opinion... Oh, sorry, did you have a question? I see you running away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u247	Mrs. Gerkens is still listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u248	There was a misunderstanding. I saw Mrs. Gerkens running away, so I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u249	Mrs. Gerkens does that a lot. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u250	We have seen that this legislation brings additional elements. In particular, in the legal field, there is a little more detail. As a result, we see more certainty for parents to make their choice on the basis of a more complete picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u251	I would like to continue on this last point. Imagine if this law didn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u252	That this law...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u253	That this law wouldn't make it, for whatever reason. We already have an opinion in the legal history of the Council of State that an entrepreneur has the freedom to do so. So my honest question to you is: if this law is there, what does it really offer, so much more, that you need a separate law for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u254	Number one, you're quoting the Council of State. The Council of State has given an opinion. We read that advice. That's what we've been talking about. Honestly, you are referring to the word 'fair'; I do not know what exactly it is doing here; we have thought that this law is adding to what is now in existence. That is why we have expressed this opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u255	You're telling me a conclusion; that's okay. But what is the underlying argument that this law offers more?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u256	I can repeat this again. Our view is that this law provides more clarity and gives more direction to the safety of the children of parents who have high regard for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u257	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u258	Sometimes you have to give up, so I'm gonna give up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u259	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u260	Mrs Gerkens is lucky that there is not a strict Vice-President here. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u261	Well, Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to say something for the Acts. I was just walking away because I wanted to give room to the interrupting microphone, because you said it was my last interruption. I would like to see your funny remark of 'Mrs Gerkens does that more often' in that context, because I do not do that more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u262	It was addressed to Mr Van Pareren. When people run away, what they do more often, that's no reason to assume they don't listen to an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u263	I didn't understand it that way either, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that Mrs Gerkens points that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u264	Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u266	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for the break until 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u267	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35049, the proposal for a law of Members Raemakers and Van Meenen amending the Childcare Act in order to encourage parents to choose between children's centres that allow or do not allow children who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme. We now need the response of the initiators and the government in the first term. I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u268	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you very much for allowing us, my colleague Rens Raemakers and I, to be here with you today. For we have worked hard and hard together to bring this law to what it is now. As you may all know, Mr Raemakers has recently returned from sick leave. That is why we have chosen together to defend the proposal before us today. From this point on, I would like to thank my colleague for the drafting and drafting of this bill. There's been a lot of work in it. It is good to see that a young Member of Parliament, I can say, does not avoid the complicated process of an initiative law. I would also like to thank the staff who contributed to this law, even if only because they would end up in the Acts of the First Chamber. These are Huub Linthorst, Sabeth de Boer, Koen Sijtsema, Levi Bakker and Anne-Lise Olsthoorn. Mr. Chairman. I listened carefully, starting with Mr Ganzevoort's contribution. He referred for a moment to others who have also done so, that he is not only here as a Member of Parliament, but also as a Grandpa. I am. I don't want to leave that out. We might be able to exchange photos later. But of course it gives an extra dimension, we should not hide that. This is ultimately about the interests of all children in the country, including our children. It makes me feel a little weird. You may have seen me staggering to the pulpit. That might be a little overzealous. If you see my age, you might think it's polio. It's not, but I've been there. One of you mentioned that, too. That was one of those moments. I also remember that I was in class with children who were hit by polio and how serious that was. I also remember what that meant in the end for what we all managed to achieve in this country, that whole National Vaccination Programme. I'll come back to that later. Of course, Mr Van der Voort has already shown how far-reaching that has been. Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of history preceding this bill. October 3rd is always a beautiful day for me as a Leader anyway. I see Mr. Schalk nodding; he knows about it. That was also the case in 2018. Then my colleague Rens Raemakers filed this bill. The coronavirus did not exist yet, but there were widespread concerns about the vaccination rate regarding some very dangerous childhood diseases, such as polio and measles. In August of that year an online petition was launched that would eventually be signed by more than 52,000 Dutch. The petition asked the government to make vaccinations mandatory for access to childcare. Mr Raemakers didn't want to go that far. However, he felt that parents should be able to opt for a children's center in which only vaccinated children would be admitted. The cabinet responded to this in December 2018 with the setting up of the Childcare and Vaccination Committee, also known as the Vermeij Committee. It will, of course, be discussed in detail later in my speech. On 1 July 2019 she published her report. The committee advocated a law which would oblige parents who would like to take their child to a childcare centre to participate in the National vaccination programme if the vaccination rate had fallen below a critical limit. This opinion came at a time when the written examination of our legislative proposal was almost complete. However, the committee's report could still be included in the oral hearing in the Lower House. This led to a proposal for an amendment from the SP Group, which was intended to be in line with that opinion of the Committee on Childcare and Vaccination. Fortunately, however, the author of the amendment finally recognised that the amendment essentially provided for the complete replacement of the legislative proposal with a new, quite different legislative proposal, and that this would not, in that sense, lead to any careful legislative procedure. Later, in December 2019, the Cabinet asked the Advisory Section of the Council of State for information on the opinion of the Committee on Childcare and Vaccination. It was released in March 2020. That was also sent to your Chamber by the Cabinet. It was possible to conclude from this information that there are still some shortcomings in the committee's proposal. Meanwhile, today's bill was adopted by the House of Representatives on 18 February 2020. Then, a month later, the corona virus struck. Of course, this has delayed the examination of the bill in this Chamber, but I do appreciate it very much, and I would like to say here that it has not prevented you, in addition to all the priority that had to be given to corona-related legislative proposals, from dealing with this bill. First, you asked for information from the Advisory Section of the Council of State. Two rounds of written questions were then held. In the end, a position of the College of Human Rights has also been requested from your Chamber. Finally, as initiators, we also asked for an opinion from the RIVM on the so-called cluster risk. In the meantime, your Chamber also has access to it. That is why we believe that the treatment has been extremely careful. In that spirit, today, I want to answer the questions I have been asked to the best of my ability. I am happy to do so in the attitude shown by Mr Ganzevoort: a nice open debate with each other. That's how I'm always in it. Mr. Chairman. To answer the questions of the Chamber properly, I have several cubes, as it is called in the House of Representatives. I don't know if that's what it's called in this environment, but you know what I mean. Firstly, I would like to talk about the content and objectives of the legislative proposal and the principle of subsidiarity. The second block deals with the legal framework. Three. The principle of proportionality. Fourthly, the social debate and fifthly, a number of separate questions. Mr. Chairman. The primary objective of the bill is to facilitate an informed choice for parents who want to have their child taken into a children's center. Not because of an economic-liberal concern about the functioning of the market, but because of one specific higher objective, namely that children can grow up as healthy as possible, so free from............................................................................................................................................................................................................ This right can be achieved by inoculating as many children as possible against dangerous infectious diseases against which safe and effective vaccinations exist. This is important not only for children who are actually vaccinated under the National Vaccination Programme, but through the so-called group immunity for all. That is what I am saying to Mr Ganzevoort. It also concerns children under 14 months of age who are not yet able to participate in the National vaccination programme. It is therefore also a question of public health. To the question of the Labour Party, I can answer that this law has as its primary objective to promote the informed freedom of choice of parents and as a secondary objective to promote public health. You will understand that I will come back to that in detail. For a long time we could rely in the Netherlands on a relatively high level of vaccination against the relevant diseases, but since 2014 it started to decrease. In 2020, RIVM reported that vaccination rates had increased slightly for the first time in five years. With regard to measles, it was then 93.6% for 14 months of infants and 89.7% for 9 years of the second shot. RIVM still expects an outbreak of these dangerous childhood diseases on average every ten years. However, it has recently become known that the vaccination rate for the BMR vaccination of mumps, measles, rubella and for the dktp vaccination of diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus and polio. The number of unvaccinated children increases above 8% at dktp and at the bmr the number is above 6%. As a result of this decrease, we fall even further below the 95% limit of group immunity and thus the risk of outbreaks of very dangerous and contagious diseases such as measles becomes more real. In order to protect our children, it remains important to increase the vaccination rate. Various measures are conceivable in this respect. The report by the Committee on Childcare and Vaccination gives some insight into this. It combines a mandatory character with a certain degree of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u269	Mr Van Meenen is right to say that the vaccination rate was falling. At some point that descent stopped. Apparently, the policy was effective, but there was also an increase. According to the preliminary figures, the last year has seen a marginal decline, in the middle of the corona time. Does Mr Van Meenen mean to say that we are actually in a negative position again? Or does he mean to say that we're in a positive line and that there's only an attraction in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u270	As a former mathematics teacher, I say, it's not really going to be predicted what line we're in. But I do say, as a co-initiator too, that we cannot run the risk of falling. We can't do that to our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u271	That was a very good argument in 2018, but after that some things happened. And that is why I find the framing that I hear a little bit that we are back in a negative line a little too sharp, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u272	I didn't say we were in a negative line. I said it's down. Nor will Mr Ganzevoort, it is a fact. It's a drop. I will come back to your reaction to this in a little more detail, but we cannot foresee how that will develop. We can't take that risk in my eyes. I'm hardly going to talk about corona, but one thing is certain for me. You can always fight it, but I think Corona has shown that the support for vaccination is under pressure. Let's see that with each other. Mr. Chairman. Those who look a little more broadly can see that there are often rather radical measures in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u273	Let me turn to the last point. You say the support for vaccination is falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u274	I said it's under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u275	It's under pressure. I understand that from the discussion we had about corona. But not for child vaccinations, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u276	No, but in general, perhaps. I consider it a risk, even for this subject. So we're seeing a drop. With those two things combined, I say: that's a risk we can't run and we have to do everything we can to reverse that. That's not just this law, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u277	It's just as important that we have it exactly. We just saw it in the little conversation you had with Mr. Ganzevoort. We're not talking about a drop, we're talking about another small increase. As a mathematician, you also say that you cannot say much about this, but we are not talking about a drop, and the support for child vaccinations is not necessarily under pressure. It's important that we have that sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u278	Yes, I do. The last figure is lower than the year before. There is a decline at this time in the vaccination of children. Yeah, that's a fact. You can call that small, I say to Mr Ganzevoort or to Mrs Vos, but he is here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u279	I didn't read that either. I'll check the RIVM states, but I didn't see it as a drop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u280	Sure. But it's true. Mr. Chairman. Let me start again with the next paragraph. Those who look a little more broadly can see that there are often rather radical measures in Europe. Certain vaccinations are mandatory in France, Belgium, Italy and the Czech Republic. In Germany, it is prohibited for nurseries to allow uninhabited children. In comparison, the Netherlands is about the most reluctant. Roughly, in the Netherlands, we confine ourselves to offering vaccinations free of charge and providing information on their usefulness and safety. But the latest figures show that I have just said that, and I have heard that others are worried about that too.... that this approach does not have the desired effect. Mr. Chairman. The most effective way of promoting the vaccination rate is the vaccination obligation. However, given the complexity of the debate, we consider it wise to start with a less radical measure: the creation of a choice. The choice of a legislative proposal which is as minor as possible makes it understandable that some questions are asked as to its effectiveness with regard to the protection of public health. But when it comes to promoting public health, it is also true that every bit helps. If, in the long term, the bill would lead to a half-percent increase in vaccination rates, that would be a great success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u281	I would like to return to a sentence by Mr Van Meenen for this. He said if this didn't work, we'd have to step down to a vaccination obligation. Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u282	Definitely not. That's not my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u283	I did hear that might be a next step. That's a really big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u284	No, I said that the most effective way to increase the vaccination rate is a duty, but that, given the complexity of the debate, we think it wise to start with a less radical measure. I hope, moreover, that it can remain so. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u285	You triggered me by the word "start." This means that it is the beginning of something and before that you said that a vaccination obligation is the ultimate. That's why I understood you so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u286	Then it's nice that you're asking me that question before that misunderstanding comes into the world. You can also check the Acts of the House of Representatives. There, for example, from the SP, there was a proposal for an own-initiative law on vaccination for childcare. I've resisted that. Firstly, it is far more radical than this bill. In view of the Dutch situation, the chances of the proposal being achieved are also considerably less, if you see what this very limited proposal actually entails. But I really want to achieve something. It has just been said that there is nothing between doing nothing and the vaccination obligation is a very broad spectrum. We're taking a step in that spectrum. I sincerely hope that this will be sufficient, apart from the justified comments, which I will come back to in detail later, that the government itself has a responsibility. There has been talk, including by you, of the role of better information and so on, and so on. That's what I'm here for. You have to do everything. You have to do one thing and not leave the other. But there is no misunderstanding: I am not defending the first step towards vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u287	So the word "begin" is allowed out of my memory?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u288	Yes, you may.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u289	Of course, we don't know whether we're gonna be able to delete it. To be honest, however, I was a little shocked that Mr Van Meenen indicated that there are no steps between anything and an obligation and that we are taking a step in that direction. That reeks of a beginning of urge or compulsion. Can Mr Van Meenen give an explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u290	I will come back to that in great detail. I've heard about that. I'm totally fighting that. With this law, no one is forced or forced into anything. If you will allow me, I will come back to that aspect in detail later in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u291	Of course, I would like to be of service to Mr Van Meenen by waiting. Then I hope that when he answers that point he also indicates that there can be not only compulsion and urge, but that they can also be felt. That also has an impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u292	I'll be right back. Then I'll speak to you without a doubt. I would like to repeat the sentence I was able to say just now before Mrs Prins was given the floor. But, I said, in promoting public health, it is also true that every bit helps. Oh, I've already said all that. Well, it's so beautiful. I'm gonna say it again. If, in the long term, the bill would lead to a half-percent increase in vaccination rates, that would be a great success. In the interests of our children's health, we cannot afford not to value the smaller contributions as well. Mr. Chairman. From the point of view of subsidiarity, there is no less significant means of enabling both parents to make informed choices and to improve public health in a broader sense. By the way, I will come back to this point in detail later. You'll understand. Then you may also expect something from me; that I will convince you that this will happen. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ganzevoort made the last reduction in the vaccination rate in his contribution. I am a little less frivolous about this, especially as it further reduces the threshold of 95% group immunity and thus increases the risk of outbreaks of very dangerous and contagious diseases such as measles. The vaccination rate fluctuates and in times when no outbreaks of infectious diseases occur, the degree is often lower than when people are confronted with the reality of an outbreak. This is problematic, because vaccinations are intended to prevent outbreaks. This means that permanent attention is needed to the vaccination rate, not only in view of the national average, but also the average per region and to achieve group immunity in all regions of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u293	It's been a long time since people called me frivolous, so that's something I'm reflectively taking home. I would ask Mr Van Meenen to look more carefully at the figures. He ignores a pattern that began to sign off on an increase of two years in a row. He says, "We're seeing another drop." I objected to that. That is why I said: is that indeed the pattern we see? To say that there is a decline and Mr Ganzevoort is taking this lightly, I do not think that the question I have also asked the government is correct. That question was: is this a sign of effective policy or not? I would also like to put that question to Mr Van Meenen. What does the fact that we have seen an increase in vaccination rates for two years in a row mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u294	That question is as difficult to answer as what it means that the vaccination rate is now lower. Again, I didn't say there's a descending pattern now. There's just a drop. I can see that. This decrease means that the percentage of vaccinees is below 95%. That's why I used the word "lightening." At that rate, all the alarm bells should ring. That's the border that's being handled. That's what I'm talking about. If the vaccination rate had dropped from 98% to 97%, we probably wouldn't even be standing here. That is not the case. It is not for nothing that the 95% is being used. That's what we're under right now for all the childhood diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u295	We've talked about freedom of choice and goals before. If the vaccination rate is really the target, can we talk about what it takes? Can we then see what caused the increase that has been there for two years? Perhaps it is good to learn from this and see what policy has led to an increase. And can we continue that policy, instead of focusing all energy on a law whose effect is highly questionable? Everyone says this isn't gonna do much for the vaccination rate. Even Mr Van der Voort says that. Almost everyone here says that, except Mr Van Strien. It was different. Why focus on this and not look at what has been effective policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u296	I will come to my explanation in a moment and to why I think there is indeed an effect on public health. I hope you still want to hear that from me. You can always say: we are talking about this law now, but why aren't we talking about something else that isn't there right now? It's possible. You could say: the better is always the enemy of good. I say let's do the right thing. Let us just say for once that the situation has been worrying for years, even in the time of the increase. In 2019 there were outbreaks of measles in children's centers. That means we have to take action now. This bill is now before us. I would like to include you in the idea that we are going to do this, but that we are not going to let the other thing go either. Of course, there is also a task for the government to provide more information and do everything. That's what I just said. We need to organize kitchen tables. Moreover, I think that this law, if it becomes reality, will also lead to those talks. This is also evident from the example of Berend Botje. I will go into that in a moment. So that's what I want. I don't want this and I don't want anything else. No, I want a lot more in the sense of low-hanging fruit. I don't want to stand here every week with another bill. I'd rather not do that at all. I'm standing here with this law now because I'm convinced it's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u297	I understand very well when the author says that he wants to stimulate the debate, to ensure that people make conscious choices and that this can be a means of helping. I would ask him, then, whether the imposition of legislation is not a particularly heavy instrument, if it also entails considerable administrative burdens for daycare. That is for something that I think you can achieve much better through good information campaigns. That has been proven, by the way. We have seen in recent years that they have paid off. Why don't we invest in that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u298	I have just seen you have the interrupting debate with the VVD. It made it very clear that, in the end, there is also a limit to whom information can convince. Sometimes you have to do something more than that. I am not saying that that limit has been reached, but I am saying that in recent years, at least, the policy has not led to an improvement, so that we can all rest assured. That's just not the situation. There is a potentially dangerous situation, as has been shown a few years ago. I'd like to avoid that. By the way, the purpose of this law is not at all to create kitchen tables. I'm sure there's better ways to do that. The aim of this law is firstly to enable parents to make a choice based on information and secondly to promote public health. Those are the targets and not the kitchen table conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u299	But if you want to achieve goal two, you do so through kitchen table conversations. There is no other way to achieve that goal unless there is a duty for all daycare centres to refuse children if they have not been vaccinated. Otherwise, parents who don't want to have their children vaccinated will emigrate. I just want to get back to the first thing you said. You said that we have not achieved that goal or have not achieved it sufficiently. However, I think we were well on our way. We had a little hiccup. It could be a hiccup or a falling line. That is right; both can be done. But of course we also had a special year with corona. A hiccup is therefore a bit more logical than a drastically decreasing line. Is this really the time to come up with tough legislation? Shouldn't we conclude that we were well on our way and just see how we can improve that road? We're more effective at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u300	I must say that the words 'heavy legislation' seem to me a little special. The reasoning of the SP group in the Lower House, why they were opposed to this initiative law, was that they wanted much heavier legislation. We are now two years away, but I was told that SP's own-initiative legislation was in the process of achieving a vaccination obligation in all childcare facilities. That's what I call a heavy substance. That is such a heavy resource that I'm almost sure it's going to end up here and then we'll be as far as we are today in a few years' time, which is that we haven't done anything at all. We opt for a very mild remedy. I can't think of a milder cure. I understand that I am not asking the questions here, but you will understand that I am somewhat surprised that you think this law is a serious tool, but apparently not your own law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u301	Sure. By the way, it's not my law yet. The law is in the making. It is a law that we make together with the VVD and which will probably be submitted after the summer. So yes, it's coming, but that's a law that serves another purpose. That is a law which aims to increase the vaccination rate, and this law does not have that. The aim of this law is to limit parents' freedom of choice and hopefully to initiate the kitchen table discussion. Of this, I say: do we already have to legislate for this? Especially given the fact that the Council of State has already said that there is an opportunity and that possibility. And especially because we see that the kitchen table conversation can also be achieved through good government campaigns. So these are goals that have already been achieved. For that, you have now made legislation, and I say that I think it is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u302	But for me it remains special that if the SP is really convinced that the vaccination rate can now be increased by an additional campaign, then a law is needed to enforce it. But I don't want to talk about your law...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u303	Can I say something about that? That law isn't there yet...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u304	Do you mind if I take a moment to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u305	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u306	That's what we'll talk about when the law's in place. I do not rule out the fact that we will support that law. But that law isn't before now. Just to get back to it, you say that this law restricts parents' freedom of choice. I'm saying he's promoting freedom of choice. Now there's something to choose. So far, there's nothing to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u307	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u308	Back again, because again, we're talking about a law that's not there yet. But that law does take account of the existing vaccination rate and will certainly not enter into force when this is not necessary. Then you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u309	But so is this law. At least it's necessary now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u310	We are not going to talk about a law that is not yet in place, but if there is, I would advise Mr Van Meenen to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u311	Only if this law is passed. Can I respond to that already?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u312	I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u313	I'd almost lose my question. That's unreal, isn't it? Perhaps Mr Van Meenen could comment on that. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u314	Well, look, Mr Schalk says: I would advise you to vote against that law. I say that I will only do so if this law is voted on. To be honest, I would also recommend this as voting advice to the SGP. That is also a little bit what I meant: if we do not allow mild drugs, then no compulsion or urge, no one will be obliged to do anything, so if they do not come and we continue to struggle with the too low vaccination rate, then no one can rule out the need for heavier drugs. In fact, they're already in preparation. So I would like to say to you: if you want to avoid heavier resources, you will first choose to use lighter resources, evaluate them well and see how that works. That would also be a consideration for myself by the time such a law comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u315	There is no doubt that we are going to talk about whether or not there are possibilities at the moment, as I have pointed out a number of times in the interruptions. But I've got my question back. Mr Van Meenen also indicated that a wider freedom of choice has now emerged. But that freedom of choice is especially there for a limited group of people. The freedom of choice is taken away by this law from a lot of other people, namely to choose all the institutions that are around them, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u316	I almost hate to say it, but I will come back to that in detail later. That's true. Is that okay with you? I still have a lot of pages to go; you're still a long way from getting rid of me. I said that we must achieve group immunity both nationally and in the regions. Public information is an important element in this. We have to do one thing and not leave the other. But the conversations that holders of children's centres have with parents who register their children can also be useful. The legislative proposal can make a lasting contribution to this. It can be disputed exactly how much this contribution will be, but in the interests of the health of our children we cannot afford not to value the smaller contributions as well. We do not see how this objective could be achieved by a less radical means. The investigation by Nivel-Amsterdam UMC, to which Mr Verkerk of the ChristenUnion and Mrs Prins of the CDA point, does not recognise that the present bill obliges both parents and the holders of the child centre to do nothing, except for the communication for the purposes of the National Register Childcare when they adopt such an admission policy. That's the only obligation. The CDA asks for the reason to add public health later to the objectives. That's a fair question. The primary purpose of this law is indeed the informed freedom of choice. The freedom of choice for parents to choose the safest environment for their children. Of course not 100% safe; I will come back to that later. At an early stage of the legislative proposal, we have considered including the objective of protecting public health. We did not do that at the time. Firstly, because we had doubts as to whether the concept of public health could also include children's health in children's centres. This hesitation lapsed because the Advisory Section of the Council of State, in its information on the amended legislative proposal, spoke about: public health in the broad sense and children's health in childcare. Secondly, we did not want to do so because we provided that, in the field of public health protection, the discussion would focus on what the expected impact of the legislative proposal would be on the degree of vaccination. That was unclear when the bill was brought forward. Therefore, it remained with the cautious ruling in the explanatory statement that a consequence of the legislative proposal could be that vaccination rates would increase and that this would be in the interest of public health. Later, a study showed that the Vermeij Committee had carried out the following. In a more far-reaching scenario than the present law, namely an admission policy at all children's centres, almost half of the parents who do not now or do not fully have their children vaccinated would still have them vaccinated if required. When the Advisory Section also pointed this out, the second objective of the proposal was to protect public health. Of course, our legislative proposal is less radical, but the fact that you start with a measure that restricts access seems to lead to a higher vaccination rate. That's our conclusion. And I say to Mr. Ganzevoort... Well, I'll just let you go first, if the chairman allows. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u317	Well, actually, about the investigation. That was about the condition that it would be mandatory everywhere. Then 50% of the parents say, "Okay, then I'll have my kid vaccinated." So even if it's mandatory, still half the parents won't let their kids vaccinate. The question is what happens when it becomes an option, in which a number of nursery homes are not known how much the refusal policy is going to apply. What impact does Mr Van Meenen think this will have? The conclusion that 50% of the parents are going to follow that, seems to me no longer sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u318	Certainly, I fully agree with Mr Ganzevoort. But I also think it's over 0%. I'll come back to that later. I can tell you now. Look, for example, at the situation at Berend Botje, where such a percentage has also been chosen. That was just that one daycare center. That daycare thing happened. Moreover, the Council of State has also said something about its health impact. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that later. Of course, the effect will be less than with a more far-reaching law. I fully agree with that, although you will probably get more flight behaviour out of child care. But that will undoubtedly all be taken into account. I fully agree with you on the point that the effect will be less than with a more far-reaching law. But I hope you'll join me in expecting it to be more than no effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u319	That might be possible, but also the risk of further segregation... A number of questions have also been asked about this, but I am sure you will come back to that, because you will come back to other issues. Keep a list. Perhaps you could also respond to Mr Verkerk's point. From the conversations with Berend Botje it appeared that there was an initial effect, but that it disappeared very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u320	Do you mind if I come back to that when I talk about the Berend Botje case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u321	You promise a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u322	Yeah, I promise a lot, but I also know what's coming. You'll have to forgive me; I'm just a simple math teacher trying to do this as well as possible. Mr. Chairman. The objective is therefore extended to public health in a broad sense. As mentioned earlier, its protection is not something that can be promoted by a single law or measure. It is a complex of measures that each make a small but relevant contribution. Little bits help, I say. Every vaccination counts. Mr. Chairman. A European legal framework on vaccinations in relation to childcare can be found in the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights on the appeal of Mr Vavricka and five other Czech citizens. This was a general duty in the Czech Republic. By the way, I would like to add that this is the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u323	Is this the block of legal frameworks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u324	Yes. This was a general legal obligation to vaccinate children against nine diseases. That's similar to our national vaccination program. Compliance with this obligation cannot be physically enforced in the Czech Republic. However, parents who fail to comply with this obligation without good reason may be fined once. Unvaccinated children are not accepted in what we call 'child centres' here. So that goes far beyond the current legislative proposal. On 8 April last year, the Court ruled that this legislation did not infringe the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. The Court gives an overview of a series of international conventions and other legal instruments, from which a positive commitment to public trade can be derived, especially if the vaccination rate is lower than that required for group immunity, which is currently the case in the Netherlands. The Court stresses that all decisions relating to children must always take priority over their interests. The Court states that the aim must be to protect every child from serious illness, vaccination or group immunity. The Court therefore considered that the Czech health policy was in line with the interests of the children to which it was addressed. According to the Court, the Czech legislation was justified by the same two legitimate objectives underlying the present legislative proposal: the protection of the health and rights of others. The Czech case was quite different from that of the present bill. Our proposal is not about a vaccination obligation in any form whatsoever. According to the Court, the Czech Republic remained within the broad margin of discretion conferred by the Treaty on Member States, which implies that States can opt for more or less far-reaching measures. We have deliberately chosen the least radical proposal that we could come up with: to facilitate a choice, not only to have your children vaccinated or not, but all parents already have that choice, and that remains so, but also to allow your children to be taken care of in a children's center that allows only or almost only vaccinated children. There is therefore no coercion and exclusion as suggested here by the SGP. I shall drop a significant silence here because I do not know whether Mr Schalk wants to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u325	That is what we call entrapment, but Mr Schalk is already coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u326	It doesn't have to be for me, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u327	No, it's obvious. Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u328	I would not, of course, like to disappoint Mr Van Meenen. I have just asked, in the case of interruption, whether he could also comment on experienced urge and compulsion. The example of Mrs Vos did appeal to me. She was looking for her child and looked for something in the immediate vicinity. Then you'll find out: it'll have to be vaccinated for a while. If I asked her, I think she felt somewhat unheimic in the thought: well, fun, interesting; I'm going to look a little further. Then there comes a certain form of compulsion or urge to look around the corner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u329	Our view is that this would only be the case if there were no other choice. My expectation is that the daycare in Mrs Vos's example I have just lost the name, it had such a beautiful name: the Lenteklokje.... is a kindergarten that would not opt for such a policy. So that case doesn't go there at all. In fact, especially in certain groups with certain beliefs, there is an organised wide range, such as anthroposophical childcare. This is also the case with other beliefs. I think that everyone will eventually find the place that fits their own identity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u330	Of course, I'm not gonna fight about that. How does Mr Van Meenen react to a daycare facility in a primary school, where this obligation does not apply and where these children also come into contact with a lot of other children who may not have been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u331	Yeah, but that's a question of daycare, which sets rules for that. Those rules are completely separate. I will come back to that later, but I can say it now. This isn't about education, in any way. In education, I do not need to explain to Mr Schalk that completely different laws apply, for example Article 23, to name but a few, which can also restrict access in a certain way under conditions. I don't think anyone sees that as a limitation: then you can't go to school in the Netherlands. However, this law does not in any way relate to education. That is also in the judgment of the Court on the Czech case. It is explicitly about child care, but not about essential services. I don't know exactly what the legal term is, like education. It's not about that, and then it wouldn't be allowed. Such an organisation will have to take that into account. It's no different. We only change this law and no other. The other laws must therefore continue to be adhered to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u332	I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen. Only we know that there is a huge expansion in education, especially in this area, because children are increasingly in need of care and it is very much appreciated that this is in line with the school process. You bring an element inside the school whose parents get the idea: okay, you're in an environment that's perfectly safe. But that's just not true. That's a sham safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u333	I would like to point out that it would indeed be a very wrong assumption that it is perfectly safe. There is no such thing, but I will come back to that later. I would like to point out to Mr Schalk that, even in a situation where a school and a childcare facility are sitting together in one building, children will have to be housed separately from child care. In fact, that's what the law prescribes. In fact, we are here to protect the interests of the children under 14 months. They cannot be vaccinated. Well, I'm guessing they won't mingle with eighth grade. Yeah? I'll come back to that Czech statement. As a result, our legislative proposal does not address violations of fundamental rights, which were raised in the Czech case: the right to respect for private life, family and family life, and freedom of thought, conscience and religion. I say this with some emphasis, particularly with regard to freedom of religion, because it was previously suggested that the measure contained in the bill conflicts with the fundamental right of freedom of religion or belief. However, the Advisory Section of the Council of State proposes something different to your Chamber in its opinion. I quote: "Article 6 of the Constitution as such does not apply to this matter." The bill does not in any way prevent people from confessing or expressing their religion in worship or in keeping commandments and regulations. The bill only concerns the fundamental right to equal treatment. In the legal framework relevant to the assessment of the legislative proposal, a central place is taken by our General Law on Equal Treatment. We are also closely following the system of the directive. Part of this is the difference between direct and indirect distinction, as has already been mentioned here. Direct distinction is never allowed, except for a few specific exceptions. Indirect distinction may be justified where there is a legitimate purpose and the means of achieving that objective are appropriate and necessary. The present legislative proposal concerns indirect discrimination on the basis of religion or belief. Of course, everyone is free to take the view that indirect discrimination on the basis of religion should never be justified, but that is not the starting point of the EU directive and of our own General Law on equal treatment. Indirect distinction can be justified. This can be done in two ways: by a specific legal provision or by a judge's ruling. Mr. Chairman. I will now turn to the questions about the legal added value of this law and the powers of the Human Rights College, as asked by the PvdA, the Christian Union and the SGP. In the bill, we have opted for a specific legal provision... Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u334	There must be a legitimate purpose. That is also an important point. My question from the discussion we have had is whether transparency and freedom of choice for parents is a legitimate objective. I see Mr Van Meenen nodding now. Public health could be, not freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u335	That's right. I will come back to why it does have a health effect. I've just said something about that, but totally once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u336	It's a good thing we're on the same page here. I do have one more question. Mr Van Meenen now puts all the emphasis on religion and belief in life. That may be an element for parents to choose for this, but the question for other groups of parents I am thinking of a number of neighbourhoods in large cities, migrants' children are not so much a question of religion or belief. But there can be an indirect distinction that then has much more to do with population groups, with ethnicity and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u337	Yes, but that also affects, for example, the participation in childcare. It's lower there, too. This also requires other measures. I'm not saying, if this law is passed, then we're here, guys, we can sit back! No, there's still a lot of work to do, even in those neighborhoods. That's what we've seen in recent years. But the distinction is no different. There too, childcare can make a distinction on the basis of the "vaccine or non-vaccine" criterion; it does not have to be. Childcare services in these neighbourhoods may not do so, because the vaccination rate is lower. I'm afraid to predict it all. I hope to see an effect of that. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u338	With his emphasis on Article 6 on religion and belief, I think Mr Van Meenen is narrowing some of the problem. When it comes to indirect discrimination, it is not only about indirect discrimination by religion or belief; it also has something to do with voluntary choice for people and so on. But it is also about indirect discrimination based on race, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u339	Well, that's where Mr. Ganzevoort is now taking a side road that goes quite far for me. I don't know what he associates that with when he says "in certain neighborhoods." Apparently, there are certain races there. I don't know where he's going with this, but I don't follow that, so he's gonna have to explain that to me better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u340	One of the things I have argued is that research shows that in children from migrant families, for example, vaccination rates are lower. This means that when you make indirect distinction, it is not only a matter of being lower in certain religious groups, for example, but also certain groups with ethnicity. The legal category for this is race.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u341	Yes, but the criterion here is that childcare can choose to refuse people who will not be vaccinated. The refusal of the people who choose to do so, other than those who do so on the basis of their own convictions, is not their race. That is the fact, for example, that they are not sufficiently informed or that they are listening to wrong sources. That's what happens. There is a major role for information. That's what we've seen in recent years. So that has nothing to do with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u342	Mr. Ganzevoort, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u343	Finally. That is precisely the essence of the concept of indirect distinction, namely that you in theory distinguish on criterion A, but that it de facto extends to criterion B, e.g. ethnicity. That is the essence of indirect discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u344	Yes, but I do not share Mr Ganzevoort's view on this criterion. I'm sorry. Again, I see other options to do something there, so not this one. Moreover, this is always a choice both of the people themselves and of the childcare sector. Anyway, I repeat myself. Mr. Chairman. The added value of the bill in relation to, for example, a hand-out. This has been discussed extensively in your contributions................................................................................................................................................................................... I quote the Council of State: "In this case, a special legal provision will provide more certainty about the legal sustainability of the policy of refusal. As a result, there is no room for a balance of interests between the courts or the Human Rights College." That's what the Council of State says. So the Council of State does not say "there is no effect at all," but says this: "The balancing of interests is carried out by the legislator in this case. After that, all the parties concerned will be clear about what is and cannot be done, without waiting for the case-law of the court, against which they will only be able to defend themselves with lawyers or medical experts." We also welcome the fact that childcare Berend Botje is not confronted with legal proceedings. But when it comes to achieving an informed freedom of choice for all parents, Berend Botje's example cannot be an alternative to legislation that clarifies what is and is not allowed. I would also like to say to the Christian Union that we are not aware of any judgments of the judge other than the ECHR ruling mentioned above, on Mr Vavricka's case. Mr. Chairman. We are therefore seeking to provide legal certainty for those holders of children's centres who wish to pursue an admission policy in which almost all children who can be shown to participate in the National vaccination programme are admitted. In the final phase of the written preparation of the examination of this bill in your Chamber, this led to the discussion of whether that objective could be achieved. The discussion focused on whether there would be room for the Human Rights College to make a full assessment in equal treatment cases dealing with the situation that this proposal envisages. Let me be clear on that. The adoption of this bill will mean that the College will no longer be able to fully judge. If, after the adoption of this proposal, a children's centre introduces an admission policy as referred to in the law and there is an indirect distinction on the basis of religion or belief as a result of that admission policy, that is justified. That is the balance that the legislator has made. That does not mean that there is the confusion, I think the College is unauthorized. In this situation, however, the principle will be that the complaint is unfounded, because the distinction is already justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u345	This leads to more questions. One of the questions I had, which has also been asked a great deal by my fellow Members, is that on 9 April the College of Human Rights said: we do have competence. You say that they are competent, but in the end the verdict will always be that it is inadmissible. What is it now? You are also saying that one of the objectives of the legislative proposal is that this kind of thing can no longer be carried out by parents. I don't get it anymore. What is it now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u346	The objective is not that there can be no business. There is confusion here, or perhaps a difference of opinion, about whether the College can now make a ruling that differs from what the law says. That is not possible, because the legislator has already spoken. It has determined what is a justified distinction. That is why I say that the College is not unauthorized, but it cannot come to a decision other than what the legislator has already laid down in the law. So that's two different things. I say: they are simply competent, but it will not help anyone who calls on them much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u347	I think I should take on the role of a childcare center today. Just as reasoning from a childcare centre, the aim of this law is to give legal certainty and clarity to childcare centres that want to pursue such policies. You say, "I can't give you that, because there may still be a case. The College of Human Rights still says: we are competent. The childcare centre that wants to pursue such a policy is therefore not rid of the fuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u348	No, it isn't. I just quoted the Council of State, and I will do it again. "In the present case, therefore, with a specific provision of law," that is to say, this law "will provide more certainty as to the legal sustainability of the conduct of a policy of refusal. As a result, there is no room for a balance of interests between the courts or the Human Rights College." Thus, the Council of State does not say that the College is no longer competent, but that there is no room for another consideration, because that consideration has already been made in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u349	So a childcare center can run this policy. Then there will still be matters, but a parent may know: there will be no other consideration, so there is no point. That is the purpose of this law, and your answer to what the College of Human Rights says is: they can say that, but that will lead nowhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u350	No, we have a different interpretation of what the College of Human Rights says. They say, "We are competent." That's what I'm saying. I'm not fighting that at all. But I am saying that not only does the Council of State say that there is no room for any other consideration. That's two different things. That means, in practice, that you can go to court, but I think that's gonna stop soon if the verdict is every time: unfounded. Because that is the outcome of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u351	The Human Rights College is therefore competent to assess the discriminatory actions of a children's centre, and you say that this will always lead to the same outcome if this bill is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u352	Exactly, because the College of Human Rights is there to look at the law. That can't be a stand-alone trade-off. The law already prescribes that the difference is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u353	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u354	I think that's an insult on the part of the judge. This doesn't cheer me up, I'd say D66'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u355	Well, in general, we lay down laws here in the hope that everyone will abide by them, including the College of Human Rights. That can't make statements that are different from what the law prescribes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u356	Let me get another point. Let's say I'm a daycare center, and as a policy, I've stated that the vaccination rate at my daycare center should be 97%, because that's what I think is a safe vaccination rate. But nowhere does it say that's the lower limit. In fact, out of the 95% we're talking about here, even the RIVM says: we can't really determine that. That 95% applies when you have large group mix, and that is by definition not the case in a daycare center. Now I come by as a parent and say: that 97% has been randomly chosen; I think that my child should be admitted, because you must keep at least 95%. What am I gonna do as a daycare center?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u357	It starts with the assumption that as a daycare center you can determine the vaccination rate at your daycare center. That seems pretty complicated to me, especially since it can vary from day to day. One day a child comes in with vaccination, the other day a child without one. So that's a pointless number. It is constantly subject to fluctuation. So I would seriously advise a daycare center to base policy on that. Because then you have a different policy about every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u358	But what am I supposed to base my policy on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u359	To the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u360	So I can say 'no unvaccinated children at all', because that is what the legal text says, or 'a small proportion of unvaccinated children'. But what is then the small part is not clearly defined. So on what basis can I hold on to my policy, so that a parent can't come by and say: you chose that, but that's quite an arbitrary choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u361	If a daycare center is going to pursue all kinds of policies that are not supported by the law... The policy proposed by Mrs Gerkens is not at all included in this law. My point is that we are going to make a law here, so that childcare has a clear criterion for making policy. That is because we do or do not allow children who have been vaccinated. The medical issues are excluded, let me just say. That is the policy supported by this law. That is not a policy such as "we only allow children here if the vaccination rate here is sister or so." None of that is in this law. That's very interesting, but then there's got to be another law. At least I am not going to propose it, because I say that it is very bad and volatile policy. No one can count on that. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u362	Mrs. Gerkens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u363	The legal text does say that it is possible to have almost all children vaccinated. So that space does offer the law. I'd like to miss out on the framework within which...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u364	I'm just looking at what you're referring to. It is sometimes about "almost all" children in the law; that is what I have just said. The exception is children who are not vaccinated for medical reasons. You yourself have set an example in which it is handled with understanding. I would say: let us hope that the holders of our childcare facilities will remain as sensible as in the situations you have experienced. I think it would be wise to keep doing that. But in the end, they are supported, whether or not by this law. There's only one way. That's a restrictive admission policy and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u365	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u366	Finally, I have to say that in my case there was no medical exception. There was no medical indication. So I don't think you're so keen on what space your law offers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u367	Let me put it this way: I would not deprive you of that space. There is no reason for this law either. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u368	As regards the College of Human Rights, I am afraid that Mr Van Meenen is a bit of a smokescreen. He says: they are competent, but they can only say that it is inadmissible. That's actually his conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u369	I said grounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u370	Yes. But that's not what the college says. The college explicitly says the following. "To the extent that a legal exception to the prohibition of discrimination is sought, the same shall apply as other legal exceptions to the prohibition, namely: in the case of a request for judgment, the College may and will examine and assess whether the decision or conduct of the employer or supplier of goods in the particular case is actually covered by the exception to the prohibition of discrimination and is therefore justified." That is not only about whether it is inadmissible, but it is about assessing. In other words: they will certainly come up with a balance as to whether it is true in this particular case. That is quite different from inadmissible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u371	I'm not saying "inadmissible," I'm saying "ungrounded." However, we are talking about a situation in which the daycare facility complies with the law. If the daycare center does not comply with the law or sets all kinds of other rules, then you can of course go to the college. But here's what's important. The Council of State, I have quoted it twice now, says: such a special law no longer leaves room for its own consideration. But that is not true of course if one does not comply with the law; that is what this is about. That's how I read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u372	What the college says is, we won't say by default that it's unfounded. In the specific case, we will see if it is in line with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u373	But I hope that Mr Ganzevoort will agree with me that the criterion must then be whether the holder of the children's centre complies with the law and no other criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u374	Of course, always.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u375	Yes, but the law is crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u376	I'm gonna go on at this point anyway. Of course, Mr Van Meenen has just quoted what the Council of State has said. The result is that for a balance of interests in concrete situations based on the AWGB by the judge or the Human Rights College there is no room anymore. That was precisely why this Chamber went to the College of Human Rights and the College indicated what Mr Ganzevoort just quoted and what I quoted in my first term. Suppose a daycare center adheres to the law if this law would be passed and therefore at some point refuse children. If a parent goes to the College of Human Rights for a good reason, then surely it cannot be that the College of Human Rights would indeed say: that is unfounded? Because there is something incorporated into the law that will put the Constitution into effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u377	I don't know if the Human Rights College is going to test the Constitution. I think that would be a special figure. But it is exactly as you say: it would be very special, in my view, if the Human Rights College were to say: 'We have a childcare institution here that complies with the law. You have an objection? You know what? We're just gonna approve of that." Then we'd be living in a special country. We really shouldn't want that. We must want the College of Human Rights to review the law. That is in my expectation and hope this law. Then there's no room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u378	I've been to the College of Human Rights in a previous life. Why? Because it was very often correct about constitutional articles and their interpretation, which were linked to other legislation. Of course, the Human Rights College is not going to review the Constitution, but it is going to review what the daycare center has done on the basis of the law. In my humble opinion, it cannot be that we can write something in a law that the tester of that law has to say: I can't do anything with it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u379	I think we're talking a little bit past each other. I am not saying that this cannot be done, but I am saying that, if a daycare center abides by the law, what else it should be kept to is not possible for the College of Human Rights to say: it is nice that they comply with the law, but I am going to find something else about it. The other way around, I can imagine that if the daycare center doesn't comply with the law, you'll go straight to the Human Rights College, or to the judge, or to anyone. Then you have a point. However, the Council of State is crystal clear about this and says: there is no such space. The Council of State's response to your information request does not state that the College is unauthorized. It doesn't say that. One has to check, but one has to check on something, namely the law. I hope that Mr Schalk agrees with me. So if you obey the law, it's okay. I don't think it could be anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u380	I'd like to continue with this. The College of Human Rights must indeed be subject to the law, but within the scope of equal treatment legislation. That's exactly what it says in the letter we received. That's different than just this law. They assess equal treatment in accordance with the General Law. That's a whole different order from this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u381	I do not agree with you, because that consideration, that test, has already been made here, as I have just said. That's what we're doing here right now, if we accept that. At the moment when the legislator in the Netherlands has said "that test has been passed," the College of Human Rights cannot overcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u382	I have to say, therefore, that you do not agree with the response we have from the College of Human Rights and that you are fighting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u383	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u384	That's what you're saying here, isn't it? This question was asked after it was already clear and clear that you had introduced that lex specialization. On this basis, this question has been asked again to the College. If the college still says that they are going to test it within the scope of the General Law on equal treatment, then I think that is the basis. That's different from what you're saying. In other words, you do not agree with the rulings of the College of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u385	No, I read it differently. I have said that a number of times. I read the reaction of the College of Human Rights in such a way that it is still considered competent. I think that is a good thing, because there may be many situations where the law is clearly not adhered to. It has to be done. You've heard me say it several times. I say with the College of Human Rights: 'one is competent', but I say with the Council of State: there is no room for a different consideration if the holder of the child centre complies with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u386	It is a pity that we cannot ask the Human Rights College what they meant, knowing that the lex special was already added to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u387	Let me get this straight. You say this law is clap-and-clap, but I do have a question. Should a nursery that does not make use of the possibility explicitly state that? What if somehow a case is brought by the parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u388	I'm just trying to understand how Mrs. Vos means this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u389	Article 1 states that a daycare centre may have a policy that children refuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u390	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u391	Do all daycare centers that don't comply with the law? Should they make that explicit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u392	They're bound by the law. They do not have to make that explicit at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u393	So that's clip-and-ready, huh? Suppose I had taken the anthroposophical daycare center because I think it should pursue that policy, then it is clear to the Human Rights College that that is inadmissible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u394	You can't force them to do it. Definitely not. This law doesn't force anyone to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u395	I'll be back. You just said, no, if your policy is not to let unvaccinated children in, you shouldn't, unless you might have a medical exception. Now I'm looking at the explanatory statement. There you are literally saying: "The holder of a children's centre may decide that only or almost exclusively staff will be employed and children will be admitted who can be shown to participate in the vaccination programme." "This allows children's centres to choose between a policy allowing only vaccinated children and a policy allowing for the admission of one or a few children who have not been vaccinated, as long as the group immunity of the daycare centre is not compromised." So it is as I say, that you can determine in your policy what group immunity is. We have already found that it cannot be established, because that group is too small. So here's what I'm afraid of. We're talking about stubborn parents here. Those are the parents who do want to go to court if a daycare policy is to have. I'm afraid they'll still go to court. I think they will also have good ground, because the basis has not been given by the legislator. How do you feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u396	It's been said several times. There are situations already. It's already happening. We are trying here to give better basis and more legal certainty to the holders of the children's centres. That's not the main objective. The main objective is the informed choice of parents and the strengthening of public health. That's what we do. We strengthen the base under the position of the holders who want to do so. Whether that'll ever lead to anything, we'll see. But that's the way it is. It's no different than how it stands in the law and the way I say it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u397	But I don't see the reinforcement. That's my argument. Where is this strengthening when we have a law that is going to do what is already possible and, even more, still leaves room for completely arbitrary policies of daycare? One daycare center will say 98%, the other 92%, the third 95%. In the Lower House we asked: should we at all leave that to a daycare center? Isn't that the legislator's job? You'll walk away from that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u398	No, it's not. We have no responsibility for daycare.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u399	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u400	No. You can make that choice. The responsibility for conducting a health policy lies with the government. There's no misunderstanding about that. But you can invite parties to participate. That's what we do with this law. It really is an invitation to contribute to public health. I really do not exclude that there will be any discussion in the implementation, but I think that the law is at least crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u401	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u402	At the moment when you leave the policy to the daycare centre itself, without giving frameworks, you will ultimately give responsibility to the daycare centers and you will not take it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u403	I'll fight that. I can't say otherwise. The law is the framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u404	Mr. Van Meenen, let me see how things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u405	Well, I do have something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u406	Is it true that you have now reached proportionality, your third subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u407	It saves three more paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u408	Okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u409	Mr. Chairman. It's all still about that Human Rights College. It is certain that if the bill becomes law, the law can actually achieve its primary objective. Holders of children's centres may choose only to allow children participating in the National Vaccination Programme in so far as medical reasons do not prove to be in the way. This creates the possibility for parents to opt for a children's center as safe as possible. From a formal point of view, the holders of a children's centre may still have to deal with the College of Human Rights, but as long as they pursue an admission policy that corresponds to what is laid down in the law, they do not have to worry. I've already said all that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the question of proportionality, the consideration of the interests involved. Basically, it's pretty clear. This concerns the interests of children, of parents, of holders of a children's centre and of their staff. I would like to point out that children's interests are always the first consideration. In this I follow the European Court of Human Rights in the judgment I mentioned earlier in the Czech case. It is also about the interests of everyone who lives in the Netherlands. These interests are served by the bill insofar as they lead to an increase in the vaccination rate. This can be particularly important in those regions where vaccination rates are below 95%. For children, this legislative proposal is important because it can lead, much more than is currently the case, to children's centres where only children participating in the National Vaccination Programme are admitted. With this law, we want to make a positive contribution to the vaccination rate. With this we serve the interests of all children. After all, a higher vaccination rate reduces the risk for each individual child. The PvdA's question is whether there is a greater risk of infection in children's centres that do not have a specific authorisation policy due to a concentration of unvaccinated children. In view of the questions raised in previous written rounds, we have, as you have heard, requested an opinion from the RIVM. This shows that in the event of an outbreak, the virus must be brought into the children's centre. For the infection risk there is only one dominant factor and that is the vaccination rate in the municipality or region where the children's center is located. If it's above 95%, there's no big deal. If it's lower, it gets worrying. RIVM therefore states, and I quote: 'The risk of raising infectious diseases in children in areas where children's centres restrict access to unvaccinated children will be equal to that in other areas'. Mr. Chairman. Parents who do want their child to participate in the National Vaccination Programme contribute both to the safety and health of their own children and to the unvaccinated children. Their interests will have to weigh heavily. It is understandable that they want to opt for a children's centre that allows only vaccinated children, especially in regions with a low vaccination rate. It is therefore important to mention, also in view of the Christian Union's remark, that this law does not, of course, provide children with full safety against dangerous infectious diseases. It does allow parents to do everything possible in the interests of their child's health. On the question of the VVD, the SGP and GroenLinks on the effectiveness of the law, given the RIVM's assertion that an admission policy does not have a direct impact on the risk of infection, I note the following. We believe that the law as a whole has an effect on the health of children at micro level, by the one child who, by virtue of this law, participates in the National vaccination programme, but also at macro level by contributing to the vaccination rate. This is also in line with the opinion of the Council of State of 17 June 2020, which states that, with all the effects of the refusal by childcare centres of unincorporated children and workers on public health in the broad sense and on children's health in childcare, it is expected to be positive although limited. That is exactly our view. This is gonna do something. Of course you'd want more, but it does something. And then we can't let it go. Mr. Chairman. In any case, we expect a positive impact on the vaccination rate, also in view of the research carried out by the Vermeij Committee and the practical example of Berend Botje. In addition, as I said, we have never been able to guarantee full safety in relation to infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u410	Indeed, you have never said that it leads to complete safety. I couldn't agree more. But I'm still looking at the numbers of the RIVM. If you have a group of 30 people at a vaccination rate of approximately 95%, the risk of infection is if there is an outbreak, because you talk about a small group, still about 70%. With that fact, I think, well, we have to be very honest with parents. It helps a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u411	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u412	But the RIVM shows that if you drop to 90%, the chance of infection will save 10%. But it's 10% in a range of 70% to 90% chance of getting an infection. I think that's an incredibly small opportunity. The effect is there, but you have to give very good information on how small that effect is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u413	I think parents are well aware that their children are not just at childcare and there are risks elsewhere. Let's start with that. Second. Mr Verkerk may say that 10% of children are a small number, but that is just about children. Those are existing children: those are the 10%. Then I'll never find it a small number. Just as charmed: if we could save the life of one child with this law, I would still file it. That 10% is about a lot more kids. I hope that Mr Verkerk will agree with me. With all children in child care in the Netherlands, this number has grown and this will continue to grow as a result of the measures taken by the present cabinet; Mr Verkerk's party is also involved in such a number, although it is relatively limited. I'm standing right here in front of those kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u414	When we start working with statistics, one thing is always difficult. You always have an outbreak in one place. If there are children there, the chance of being infected is 70% or 80%. I agree with you that 10% is going to be okay in that sense, but if we have to make separate laws for very small numbers of children, then we will be very busy here, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u415	I think you're actually already very busy. Maybe that's because we sometimes make laws for small groups of people. We hardly ever make laws that only concern the entire population. We make a lot of laws for specific groups. As I believe we all share, in this case we are talking about the most important group of people we have in this country, our children. Then I'll say we can't leave any substance unused. I also said that we do not expect the salvation of this law alone. More needs to be done. Of course, more needs to be done, but I wouldn't leave anything unused that these two Chambers can pass. Mr Verkerk will agree with me: this is the least significant thing we can do, compared to other possibilities, including in other countries. We don't force anyone to do anything, and yet it has an effect. Let's just do it! What are we going to leave it for, I would like to say to Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u416	Finally, Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u417	I understand your reasoning. However, I must honestly say that there are other possibilities. I mentioned them. One possibility is to talk very intensively to individual parents. There's evidence that that works well. I must honestly say that the percentages I have just mentioned apply to the homogeneous behaviour of people, while the RIVM report states that people do not behave homogeneously. So in all honesty, even with the percentages I mentioned, you have a lot of questions to ask. When you talk about such small opportunities, I finally come to the idea that your main argument is that of offering choices, but that the contribution to public health will be really limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u418	I have mentioned a number of sources, from which I make it clear that there will be an effect. I referred to the report of the Vermeij Committee. This is really expected to have a major effect, especially in that unvaccinated group, if you were to undertake an overall obligation. This is not an overall obligation, but nevertheless you can expect an effect. The Council of State also says literally that the impact on children's health on childcare is expected to be positive, although limited. Now I'll move into the parents or grandparents. If I take my child to child care and I have a choice between a positive effect on the potential health of my child or not, then I know what I choose. I hope Mr Verkerk knows that too. I'll always grab that. That's what we do here. We're gonna give you a little bit of extra security. It is far from the safety we would all like, but the alternative is to do nothing. I say we do that. By the way, we shouldn't let the other thing go. Let's start with those kitchen tables. We can speculate on it, but that proposal is not now before us. I'm fine with starting tomorrow, but that doesn't mean you have to do one thing for the sake of the children and not leave the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u419	We are talking about proportionality and children's interests. I recognize the emotional call. That's what I started my story with. But let's be honest. We talked a little bit about education. The two major associations of the childcare organisations, BOinK and the Branchevereniging Sociale Kindervangen, BMK, are both opposed to this bill because it offers false safety. And, as I have just said, the administrative burden with which we burden day care will, in my opinion, lead to greater false safety. What is the reaction of the proposers to the call from two organisations that are to implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u420	This is not about false security. I regret that this word is mentioned in the treatment of this law. I haven't talked about it at all. There is no guarantee of safety in the law either. That doesn't say anything. It simply says that there will be a modest contribution, a modest improvement. I think that's what we should do. Of course, we must continue to make it clear to parents that they must also continue to do other things that promote the safety of their children, just as we should do as public authorities. If we make a safe crossing at a school, I'll give you an example, then it's not like children can just run across the street because they're always safe. It's not like that. You'll always have to do other things. But it does help. Nor do we say: let us not build zebras anymore, because absolute safety cannot be guaranteed and these zebras merely create hypocrisy. That's possible, but that depends very much on the circumstances. I cannot follow Mrs Vos' relationship between limited administrative burdens and hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u421	I want to say two things. I would like to refer specifically to the word 'false security'. I think it is important that this word is mentioned here. The freedom of choice that this bill implies means that a lot of parents say: I can choose between a safe and a non-safe daycare center. It is very important to mention that. I regret that you are getting a little nasty, precisely because we want to talk about precisely what we are talking about here: freedom of choice with a limited impact on public health. That is precisely what we must call it. I will continue to mention this, and that is also what two important organisations in childcare are calling it. We are always talking about implementation issues here in the Chamber. That is what we are very much looking at. If the House of Representatives has passed a law with the very best intentions, we will see if it is also enforceable. I am looking at the shortage of staff in childcare organisations and at the pressure they put on all these organisations. It's a lot to keep records when you say: I'm going to refuse, or I'm going to ask every parent of children from 14 months on that evidence. That's a big deal. You can't just step over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u422	What is your question, Mrs. Fox?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u423	I would ask for a serious response to the objections raised by the two major trade associations. What do you answer them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u424	First of all, I'm not getting over anything. To the best of my knowledge, I answer the questions that are being asked. But I would like to come back to the first part. Mrs Vos seems to think that we are creating the illusion here that you can choose between a safe or unsafe nursery. No, you can choose between a safer or a less secure daycare center. That's the choice here. If that's what you're asking the people in the country, I think they'd really like to opt for a slightly safer daycare facility. I fully agree that we must be absolutely clear that it does not give total safety. But I do have faith that parents understand very well that they can't and that you can't guarantee that anywhere. Let me now turn to data storage. Of course that's asking for something. I understand that, too. It's sensitive data. But let us not be mistaken about what the daycare centers already know about their children. They already know a lot. Medicine registration, allergies, all kinds of personal circumstances that are important for the well-being of the children. These are all elements that are at least as sensitive to privacy and therefore require care as to register a vaccination, which is, of course, primarily a responsibility of the parents themselves. So I'm considering that in the sense that I understand that we always have to look closely at people's workload. But if I relate that to what needs to be done with this kind of information right now, then I think that I would be willing to do so in order to create a slightly safer daycare facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u425	I only conclude that this creates the administrative burden that we have been talking about for years, which every entrepreneur has been complaining about for years. These are entrepreneurs, too. Every time they say, "This can be added to it." This also has a lot to do with the GDPR. I know parents and I know how much time it takes to chase after parents. I regret to note that D66 is also involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u426	As spokesperson for Education and a year as spokesperson for Childcare, I have been very concerned about the workload in both education and childcare. Speaking of effectiveness, I think there are many more effective ways of reducing the workload in childcare than whether or not to introduce this law. Think, for example, of all the rules on childcare that are different from those on schools, the different collective agreements and the huge burden of rules and laws. Let's go cut that out for a while. I agree with that, but in this particular case, in which we are dealing directly with the health of our children, let us not allow this balance to prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u427	Mr. Van Meenen, is it true that you're still at the point of proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u428	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u429	Then I suggest that I give Mr Verkerk the opportunity and then we save the interruptions until the end of each block. Can the Chamber agree to that? That's the case. That's how we're gonna do it. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u430	It was just stated that parents can make a good choice and that they realize that this law allows them to make a choice between safe and slightly less safe children's centers. I have to be honest with you, I doubt that. Why do I say that? I'm gonna go back to how I started reading this law. I've always thought about that 95%. Only recently I read that RIVM report which said that this only applies to very large numbers and that that does not apply to numbers of 30 anymore. I have to say, I've done a large field of statistics. I have a chemical background with a large field of physics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u431	What's your question, Mr. Verkerk?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u432	I noticed that I didn't realize that at the time. So my question is: how can you be sure that the parents realize that they are making a choice between safe and slightly less safe, or between less safe and something more safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u433	I am not going to fight with Mr Verkerk who has done most of the statistics here. But I studied math, and you can assume that I'm probably gonna win that off you. But that doesn't really matter to me here. Let's move into the parent who has that choice. Even at micro level: every child entering a child care facility will reduce the risk that the child will infect the child under 14 months of age. I think we can agree on that. I think that's what it's all about in the end, just in the eyes of parents. As the number of vaccinated children increases, it is safer. That is what you achieve most, of course not 100%, with an access policy that basically refuses unvaccinated children. I'm not saying "safe." No, I'm not saying that. It's safer or less safe. That's the marginal difference. We've just talked about the percentages. But in the end, if we do so in all kinds of places throughout the Netherlands, it is about the health of many, many thousands of children. I do not have to explain that to Mr Verkerk. We're now at 17 million. They're not all kids, but there's a lot of kids.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u434	At least we agree that it is best relevant at micro level, because you are talking about individual parents and individual children. I think it is also our job to look at the effects at macro level and whether such a law is indeed necessary. But you still have a lot of answers to give, so we'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u435	No, I'm sure. However, I would say that in the end it is a political choice whether you want to follow the initiators in that expectation, which we support with Berend Botje, with the Vermeij committee and with the Council of State, who all say that there is a positive effect, albeit limited. Well, that's ultimately a political choice. I cannot, let's just say, calculate mathematically how children's health is going in the Netherlands, but I can have a reasonable expectation. That is also a mathematical term, as you know, from statistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u436	Thank you. Then I suggest that you complete the proportionality block and give you a signal when that is done. Then we'll see if there are any interruptions at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u437	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done with that block. In any case, we expect a positive contribution to the vaccination rate, also in view of the research carried out by the Vermeij Committee and the practical example of Berend Botje. In addition, as has just been said, we have never stated that we can guarantee full safety in relation to infectious diseases by this law. The bill allows parents to choose a children's centre for their child, which applies the same principle in the area of the National vaccination programme that they themselves put into practice. This can be clarified and reassured if their children's center reveals that it only allows vaccinated children in the interests of both their own children and all children through group immunity. Mr. Chairman. The other parents consciously opt for a children's centre in which participation in the vaccination programme is not a criterion for admission of children, and often more than consciously; even with full conviction. It can be based on a religiously inspired faith and a belief in life, but also on different views and theories. Undoubtedly, these parents will claim that they too, with their choice not to participate in the National Vaccination Programme, act in the best interest of their children, but the vaccination programme has a demonstrable effect. It is safe and effective, as Mr Van der Voort has shown in detail. It also increases the safety of unvaccinated children with a vaccination rate above 95%. We will not ignore this if we, as legislators, now have to balance the interests of the parents who have or do not have their children vaccinated. In fact, children are entitled to this form of preventive health care. That is why the Dutch government has also established the National Vaccination Programme in the context of its positive obligations under several treaties and Article 22 of the Constitution. Therefore, the government will have to do everything in its power to ensure that the vaccination rate remains above 95% under the National vaccination programme. Mr. Chairman. If this does not happen, it may be necessary to take more radical measures, for example by requiring by law participation in the National vaccination programme for admission to all forms of child care, not something we propose and not something we want, but you should not exclude it, or with a vaccination obligation for all children as defined by the Vermeij Committee. But I very much hope that this will not be necessary, that the legislative proposal will set in motion a movement in which participation in the national vaccination programme at least in children's centres will become the social standard and that this will contribute to the degree of vaccination. Mr. Chairman. That's the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u438	We now come to the block of social debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u439	Or am I already there? Let's see. Oh, no, sorry, I'm still here. I'm still getting to the practical interests of parents. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u440	You're still in the bloc of proportionality? Finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u441	Yeah, excuse me. This brings me to the practical interests of the parents. As long as only a relatively small proportion of the children's centres make use of the possibilities offered by the legislative proposal, especially the parents who want to bring their children to a children's centre that only allows vaccinated children will probably not be able to find such a centre near them. As demand increases, the market will do its job and may even have a turning point. Then the other parents will have to find their children's center a little further. This is difficult to predict, I would also say in the direction of Mrs Gerkens of the SP. Supply will follow demand. In addition, host care can play a role on the supply side if, as a result of this law, there are no more child centres in a particular municipality or district where unvaccinated children can go. I do not see any problem here that is relevant to the assessment of the proportionality of the present legislative proposal. Childcare is organized privately in our country, and that brings with it market forces. As a result, facilities that are much in demand are usually more readily available than facilities that are less in demand. That is what we will have to rely on as long as childcare is not a public task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u442	Are you at the end of the line of proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u443	No, because I'm still getting to the interests of the holders of children's centers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u444	Then you're gonna finish that block and then the interruptions will come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u445	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say the following about the interests of the holders of children's centres, also in the light of the questions raised by the Labour Party and the CDA about responsibilities. There are holders of children's centres who would like to only allow children participating in the National vaccination programme without legal risks, for example to contribute to the vaccination rate and to prevent as much as possible an outbreak at their children's centre. We are certainly not shifting responsibility for protecting public health to the owners of the children's centres; I have said it before. We're just giving them the opportunity, the invitation to contribute. That's all this law is. This law therefore complements everything else we already do as a government to promote participation in the vaccination programme and proper action in the event of outbreaks. In April 2019, the NOS surveyed 3,600 nurseries with the question of whether they would refuse non-vaccinated children and whether they would refuse them. Over 500 responded. 105 said as a policy they want to refuse children who have not been vaccinated. The main argument is the safety of children. They deserve our support. They make a contribution to support the National vaccination programme, in the interests of the health of children they care for and in the interests of public health. Mr. Chairman. In his question on responsibility, the CDA mentions the results of the Vermeij Committee and the Constitution. Reference is made to the following statement by the Committee. "The government's got a move to make. This means that the responsibility for taking measures lies with the government rather than with childcare." That was so general that the committee immediately added something to it, otherwise the impression could arise that childcare would never have to take any measure and that it might not even be allowed to do so. So I quote again: "This is without prejudice to the fact that staff or host parents have their own responsibility to protect children under their care as effectively as possible against the occurrence of infectious diseases." Thank goodness, I'd say. But I do not see why, in addition to the staff, not also the owners of children's centers who would have responsibility. Don't even think about that. The Childcare Act is full of obligations for the holder of a children's center. These obligations also relate to "a safe and healthy environment'. I refer to Rule 1.49. I don't see why protecting children from getting infected couldn't be part of that. In addition, the wording of Article 22 of the Constitution reads: "The public authorities are taking measures to promote public health'. This does not mean that other than public authorities could or should not take measures that promote public health. Mr. Chairman. On the other hand, holders of children's centres do not need this bill. That is something other than having interests that would be harmed by the legislative proposal. They may prefer not to experience the market forces that might be the result of the legislative proposal, but for private organisations it is not important that this weight should be taken into account in the proportionality test. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u446	Mrs. Vos has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u447	You started talking about market forces, demand and supply in the second half of this block. Do I understand correctly that this bill is actually a kind of nudge, which, in my opinion, is a well-known term among economists for children's centres in order to pursue this policy? Indeed, the research carried out by the NIS shows that 400 out of the 500 centres that had completed the survey did not need this bill or did not need to implement it. Could the outcome of this bill be, if it is accepted, that children's centres are no longer in a position to pursue that policy, because they will more or less be forced to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u448	No. The law does not force anyone, not even the parents of children's centers, to do anything, not even this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u449	That is the essence of nudges: the law does not force, but the circumstances and the market, the consumer in this case, are calling for it. So you're forced, as it were, without any explicit coercion in the law. Does the initiator recognise that this law will not require anything, but it will give a big push in that direction, because a lot of parents will say that they will only choose a childcare centre that conducts such a policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u450	That is, I would almost say, an argument for this law, because we have to do here above all what people want in the interests of their children. You can use that argument like that. But again, this law doesn't force anyone to do anything. And yes, child care is a market. Your party would like to see that different. I also see some drawbacks in that, but we are not having that discussion right now. But as long as it is, supply will follow demand. We'll see how that develops. Mrs. Vos has set an example from her own life. Let me give you one, too. When I look at my grandchildren, of whom two out of three are in the age group we are talking about now, under 14 months old, I would very much like to be able to make that choice, because I would do anything to give my grandchildren maximum safety. I think a lot of people in this country think that way. They are not hindered by everything that is rightly changed by law. That may happen. In fact, I hope so. But I don't call that nudging, which I call just making sure that we as a government give what people want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u451	Well, we don't always do that. But I do understand that this law is a typical case of a nudge law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u452	I may be too old for it, but I just don't even know what that is. It sounds to me like something that's attractive to a lot of people. Oh, that makes people very angry, I hear outside the microphone. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u453	I propose that we really conduct the discussions on the microphones and not on the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u454	Mr. Schalk is going to explain to me what a nudge is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u455	If you can also be quiet in the benches, I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u456	Mr Van Meenen is challenging me to explain something that I am about to ask Mrs Vos about. So I'm not gonna do that. Well, I do have another question. You were just talking about the smaller practical points. If we are talking about a daycare facility that immediately indicates 'we want 95% vaccinated', is that the whole programme of the National vaccination programme? In the meantime, for example, covid is also included under the National vaccination programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u457	I had decided not to say anything about covid. I've strayed from it once, I'll admit that. But that is not a reason to talk about it in detail. If I am well informed, but you really need to ask the Minister, the addition of covid to the National Vaccination Programme is a temporary matter in the context of the improvement of... Pardon, to the Secretary of State. Excuse me. It has been said by others as well: it is not already part of the national vaccination programme. We're about to hear the real answer, because this is what I'm doing on slippery ice. No, I'm not talking about covid. It's not on the map.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u458	This law has taken quite a long time, not because we were so busy here with the covidwet, but because, among other things, the subject of vaccination was very much in the picture over the past period. I can well imagine that it might have been convenient for the proposers to move it forward a little bit. We can say we don't talk about it anymore, but we can't help but talk about it. Of course, you don't have time for it right now, but if you simply introduce "National vaccination programme and covid," you will see that it is now covered. So it's part of this law in a minute. This means that if this law is accepted, all employees and children who have not been vaccinated against covid will be in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u459	I suggest you put this question to the Secretary of State. I'm not a connoisseur. I can look it up now, but that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u460	Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u461	I get it very well. I'm not a connoisseur either, but fortunately we have two connoisseurs in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u462	I understand it's not. It's temporary, but it's not final.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u463	Then we would very much like to wait for the answer from the Secretary of State or the Minister whether it is true that covid is covered by the National vaccination programme and therefore under this scope of this law. I think this is an important element for this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u464	I can see the government nodding. Mr. Van Meenen, you are now going to the subject of social debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u465	I'm almost there, too. The social debate indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u466	If you want to indicate when you have completed that block, then the interruptions can start again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u467	Sure. Yes. Mr. Chairman. In the course of the examination of the bill, we were attacked by the collapse of the corona pandemic. Yeah, well, I'm sorry! This has led to delays in the law, but also to the issue of vaccinating in a different light. Regular comparisons have been made in this law with the measures taken in the context of the corona pandemic. That is understandable and inevitable, but given our capacity as initiators from the House of Representatives and the deviating casusism, I do not think it is appropriate to go into the discussion and the questions surrounding COVID-19 in detail. Pfiew! That ends well, this passage! I knew it, but for a second I thought, "Where am I going now?" I would ask the Cabinet to accept these questions and hope that your Chamber will understand this consideration. The legislative proposal can also be judged very well on its own merits. The law makes it possible for parents to make their own considerations about the health and safety of their children, and that both parents who do participate in the National vaccination programme and parents who do not can bring their children to care that is in line with that choice, fully in line with the idea of sovereignty in their own circle. That is something Mr Schalk should address. So it is not top-down, as Mr Verkerk suggested. This is typically not top-down. This law doesn't oblige anyone to do anything. With this we ensure that the conversation about whether or not to participate in the National vaccination programme takes place not only at the GGD, but also at the registration for a child care. I think that the holders of children's centres could make a good contribution to this as part of a broader offensive to increase the vaccination rate if they so wish. After all, there is no obligation on their plate. Parents trust their children, often babies, to them. That's a big deal. If such a person explains to them why he only allows children to participate in the National Vaccination Programme, it can have an excellent effect. This will certainly not come from all holders of children's centers, but here too, all the bits help. We expect a positive effect on the vaccination rate. Mr. Chairman. As I said in the House of Representatives: if there are positive effects, follow-up actions with more stringent measures will not be necessary and will not therefore be necessary. It would then be reasonable for those who are critical of a vaccination obligation to contribute to the creation of the law which could have these positive effects and thus prevent heavier legislation. If the legislative proposal before us is not going to be a law, perhaps thanks to the voting behaviour of these critical groups, then I think there is a chance that we have just heard about the fact that legislation is going to be put in place in the near future which is far more far-reaching than what is now before us. I and my group will not avoid it, but many groups will not be happy about it. So much for my vote to Mr President. Excuse me for this boldness. Mr. Chairman. From the RIVM advice we can learn that the risk of an outbreak of an infectious disease such as measles is greater in areas where vaccination rates are lower, such as in the so-called Biblebelt. In such an area a measles infection with a baby brother or sister of a toddler at the nursery will give a greater risk of introducing the disease into a children's center. This will be the case in, for example, anthroposophical crèches or in the toddler shelter with the Bible. I assume that parents who bring their children there are aware of this, but have no problem with it. But there are also parents who do. Especially in areas where vaccination rates are low, they will want to take their babies and toddlers to the safest day care facilities possible. I would also like to express my sympathy for the interests of these parents. Thanks to private initiative, anthroposophical crèches and toddler care could be established with the Bible without the need for a special law. This is different for the establishment and maintenance of children's centres that allow only vaccinated children. This requires a law, namely a law as it currently stands. Also allow these parents the opportunity to opt for such a children's center. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the final questions, if there are no interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u468	This was your block of social debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u469	Yes. Then there are some specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u470	Mr Ganzevoort has another question concerning the social debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u471	It has to do with the different groups that are at issue. In particular, it is a question of what needs to be done. Mr Van Meenen says "this helps a little," "this helps a little," "allow these parents" et cetera, but my question is: what are the most vulnerable groups? What are the groups where the risk is greatest, where the vaccination rate is lowest, and how are they helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u472	Indirectly, of course, due to a small increase in vaccination rates. They'd be helped by that. They will not be harmed. In any case, that is the conclusion of the RIVM. I think that these groups are most helped by an intensive information campaign, more than by this policy. It is true that they too can opt more strongly for childcare which they believe is working. In that sense, they may have been helped. But if you reason from public health, then you also have to take other measures to help them. The people who opt for childcare where this policy is possible, as this law allows, are doing something to protect their child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u473	But does Mr Van Meenen think that all parents make this choice from clear beliefs? I don't think a lot of parents have very clear beliefs. I think a lot of parents may have a certain fear or fear, like Mrs Gerkens with her fear of pricking. Parents may have a language problem or find healthcare in the Netherlands a bit complicated. That can be the case for all kinds of reasons. It is not always a matter of a very clear conviction to choose not to let your child go to a children's center for vaccinated children alone. They want that children's center nearby, for example, if they already want it. You're not helping them with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u474	I think I have already gone into this in detail as to where the market is following demand. As part of the discussion on this subject, the social debate, Mr Ganzevoort asks me a question. Words matter, also what we exchange here. I believe that due to the possibilities created by this law, the public debate on this issue will continue. Also in places where vaccination may not be self-evident, not from a belief, but simply because people do not think about it, that debate will be held more often. Because even the holder of a children's centre in such a environment may feel the need to make use of this law even more than others. In the end, therefore, it can only have positive effects, including on the considerations that the parents who are referring to Mr Ganzevoort will make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u475	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u476	It is not a question of whether we think child care should be a market. That's the de facto one. We, as representatives of the people, are faced with the question of what the possible shadow side of this market is. We will have to ask ourselves whether the way in which this law is working strengthens or softens the shadow side of that market. That's my question when it comes to this group of parents. Are we not at risk that, by relying on the argument that it is already a market, we are actually going to increase the dangerous aspects of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u477	There's no reason why there's an evaluation clause in the law. That's always the case, of course. It is not entirely in my mind whether Mr Van Pareren said anything about it; I meant it. I would say: let's mainly monitor what the effect is now. We must, of course, do so, as we do with other laws that are taking place in this sphere. I understand. Let's see what happens. My expectation is that, in the end, it will be a political consideration whether you will follow the initiators in that regard and that this will have a positive effect. If there are other effects, we have to act on them again. But that's different than doing nothing right now. At least that is not an option for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u478	Then we get to the block of varia. I suggest we build this block and then bring in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u479	There are a number of specific questions I have not yet answered. The SGP asks whether this law is not a stepping stone to education. I actually think I've already answered that question. I am looking at Mr Schalk to see if he thinks I have answered that question sufficiently. I'm just gonna give the answer, then I guess I'll be done faster. This bill cannot be extended to primary and secondary education. This requires a separate, more far-reaching legislative amendment, which again affects other fundamental rights. Think of Article 23, which, by the way, is appreciated by me. I'm sure Mr. Schalk will know that when he reads the Dutch daily. I still think it's important to say that. You don't automatically think that when you let a D66 man into your respected room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u480	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u481	I smell the stable. Education is subject to very different legislation. Unlike childcare, education has compulsory education and the constitutional freedom of education. The CDA also asks about the relationship between this law and Article 24 of the UN Children's Rights Convention. The draft law before us sets out the duty of care of the public authorities under Article 24 of the IVRK. This is to inform parents about factors that may affect their child's health, and to ensure that parents can make informed choices about their child's health. Whether a child center allows non-vaccined children is a factor that can affect the health of a child staying at the child center. Information on this is indispensable for parents, in order to make an informed choice between different children's centres, if they wish to attach an important place to their child's health. With this law, the government facilitates an additional possibility for transparent communication on vaccination. The benefits of vaccination can also be discussed further. This is how we see this relationship with Article 24 IVRK. Mr Van der Voort asked for an evaluation of this law. The amended proposal of the Law of 18 February 2020, Article IA, includes a provision on evaluation, two years after its entry into force, of the effectiveness and impact of this law in practice. The suggestion put forward by Mr van der Voort's group to include this in the evaluation seems to me to be very valuable. I ask the Minister to discuss this further. Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'll come to my conclusion. The bill is suitable for achieving the objective it aims to create a choice for parents to opt for a children's centre that is as safe as possible for the protection of their children's health. The legislative proposal is also very minor. It does not lead to new obligations, but to new opportunities. From the point of view of subsidiarity, there is no less significant means of achieving these objectives. The bill is also proportionate. It realizes a choice for part of the parents, but does not affect the interests of the other parents. In particular, parents who object to vaccination on the basis of religion or belief will not be affected by the legislative proposal. Finally, the legislative proposal can contribute to increasing the vaccination rate and thus to group immunity. Anyone in the Netherlands can benefit from this. That is in the interests of public health. Mr. Chairman. I hope, of course, that your Chamber will come to the same conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u482	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u483	I am a little disappointed, because Mr Van Meenen said at the beginning that he wanted to enter into the conversation with the same open attitude as I had invited him to. I note that he has moved on to the debate, up to and including a voting opinion. We understand his intentions very well and I think we all share them, but my question was whether he understands where all this criticism comes from. Or he understands why the Council of State was so critical. Or he understands why we have asked all kinds of critical questions. If that's the case, we're having another conversation, and then we're gonna see what really needs to be done. But I can only hear Mr Van Meenen say: do this, because this is a good bill. That wasn't exactly my question. My question was: can we think together about what this criticism is about and whether this is indeed the best thing we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u484	In my view, I have dealt very extensively with all the objections, whether understandable or not, which are justified. It is a little far-reaching bill, and yet much has happened in preparation. I take it extremely seriously. My open attitude is not so much that I say, well, you know what, let's move the law aside and see what it takes. No, my open attitude does not exist in that, but in listening carefully to what is being said, taking seriously what the objections are and giving the best possible response to them. I am also trying to distinguish facts from feelings or other valuable elements. I would also like to take a close look at what is going on here that shows that this is at least a contribution. I haven't spoken about this law in absolute terms as blissful or anything. We fully agree that much more needs to be done. That is what I mean by my open attitude, but it is not a kind of self-reliative ring, in the vein of: let me start by saying "you know what, I'm going to move the law aside and we're going to have a kind of open debate about what really would be needed." No, it's gonna take a lot more, but it's gonna take this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u485	What I had hoped was that the open attitude would also be a bit about the next question. If the Human Rights College and the Council of State were to ask some very fundamental questions, would there perhaps be some truth in it? Could that be possible? I kind of miss that. That will also have to play a role in how we approach the defence. At least it's not the open conversation I asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u486	I have spoken with a number of literal quotes from the Council of State which endorse this position, for example when it comes to a health effect, albeit limited. That is different from what some people have said here, namely that there would simply be no such thing. So in that sense, I took that extremely seriously. I did try not to counter that just by saying it's not true. I have really tried to discuss with you as carefully as possible all the objections or the alleged position of the Human Rights College. I have a rather different reading from you. We have discussed this extensively with each other. I can't open it much more. Mr President, if I may, I will say it one more time. In the end, it is a political weighting if you want to follow the initiators. However, I have tried to ensure that this is based as much as possible on the Council of State and other authoritative bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u487	Short question, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u488	I have a very brief clarification question on a point that I did not raise, but which was just mentioned by Mr Van Meenen, namely that people who would not be vaccinated for religious belief would not be affected by the law. Can he explain this very briefly, because that is not quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u489	No, because there is enough offer for them. That's it. It would be different if there were a general vaccination obligation. Then that would be the case. There are many, thousands and thousands of childcare organisations. If they are all going to pursue this policy in the end, then I am beginning to understand what Mr Schalk is trying to do. Let's just wait and see if that's gonna happen. I don't think so. Mr. Schalk, I don't think this is going to happen in your own circle either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u490	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u491	I understand, therefore, that there are still possibilities for that group, but their freedom of choice is limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u492	Yeah, maybe. You can't go to every kindergarten... Yeah, it's okay. Because there is also the choice to just vaccinate. So in that sense, they can go anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u493	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, I shall, on request, suspend five minutes until 8.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u494	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand this is our hundredth day. That, too, seems to me to be worth a celebration. It would be nice to be able to celebrate in your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u496	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u497	Thank you very much for allowing us, as directors responsible, to express the opinion of the cabinet on this initiative legislative proposal. Thank you to the initiators for your commitment. Vaccination is not only a very topical issue, but you also clearly care about childcare. I'd like to say the same thing. By the way, of course, the corona situation has also demonstrated the importance of vaccinations. It is indeed the first time I have been in your Chamber as Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, but it is not the first time I have been here. Those previous times, however, were a long time ago. I shall begin by explaining the cabinet position in a moment. At the request of your President, I will try to keep that short. So that means I'm trying to give a short introduction and a summary. Then I'll see if you'd like to go into that in more detail. Then I'll still do the page and a half that's behind it. Otherwise, we're gonna jump on to the next block. Then forgive me if I have to browse a little to get through the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u498	Can you always tell at the end of the blocks that it's the end of a block? Then we know we can interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u499	Yes. I'm trying to answer your question as much as I can. The cabinet position deals with the opinion of the Cabinet, the Council of State, the purpose of the initiative legislative proposal, the Human Rights College, the Vermeij Committee and the implementation. Then there are probably four or five specific questions left. The Secretary of State will then address everything related to vaccination. That's his job. That is the state of affairs, the RIVM, how the vaccination in the Netherlands is going. He also has a whole range of other questions. Then, Mr President, on this initiative proposal. It aims to create transparency in the childcare market. You all know this... so that parents can make a well informed choice. A lot of parallels have already been drawn with children and grandchildren. I, too, have four. They are now well off childcare. That makes me, like many of you, an experienced expert. I'm also a physicist, by the way, but we're not going to talk about statistics tonight. I think that's just confusing. The aim of the proposal is also to provide childcare centres with transparency on the legal admissibility of a refusal policy. Following the information provided by the Council of State, the initiators added a secondary objective of public health protection. Those aims of the initiators are very sympathetic to us. Raising the vaccination rate is, of course, very important. However, the more we go into this legislative proposal, and certainly listen to the debate tonight, the more we see, both in terms of content and in terms of good legislation, which I can imagine you feel extra responsible for. That is what we are going to consider now, but not after I have said it again, I have just said it, and I appreciate it, not only for the persistence, but also for the passion with which the initiators talk about childcare. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has taken a neutral position on the initiative proposal. In doing so, we take into account the political-administrative relations in our new governance culture. From a legislative proposal that has now reached this Chamber, we see the debate in this Chamber as much as possible, and we, as a cabinet in our role as advisor, would like to make a number of comments and comments on the examination of this initiative proposal. That is an answer to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. As a cabinet, we consulted various documents, including, like you, the advice and information of the Council of State and the opinion of the Vermeij Committee. I will explain the cabinet's position, partly on the basis of these documents. I would also like to touch on a number of implementation issues. Coherence with COOVID-19 will of course also be discussed. First of all, the Council of State's opinion on the initiative proposal. Many of you have referred to this, including the critical remarks made by the Council of State. In particular, the Council of State wonders whether the real solution is not to increase the vaccination rate. We agree with that. Moreover, the Council of State states that childcare organisations do not need an explicit legal basis for refusing children who do not participate in the RVP, because, as many of you have said, childcare organisations can already pursue policies that allow them to refuse children and employees who do not participate in the National Vaccination Programme. After all, they are private companies. In doing so, they are bound by the General Law on Equal Treatment, by the privacy law, so when they refuse children or employees, it may conflict with the right to freedom of religion or belief. This means, in the current situation, that the childcare organisation itself must be able to objectively justify the indirect distinction. The initiative proposal provides for a legal exception to this prohibition in the General Law on Equal Treatment. In this way, the initiators aim to create legal certainty for childcare organisations. In the eyes of the initiators, the law provides that objective justification and is no longer for individual childcare organisations. Now the Council of State is giving you a statement that you have just had a debate on the issue of the need to deal with the introduction of such legal exceptions to prohibitions under the General Law on equal treatment. If an exception is to be made, the interests must be carefully weighed. This is the only way to justify that indirect distinction. For this, it is also important to mention that the proposal pursues a legitimate objective. In the view of the Council of State, an objective that aims at providing transparency and parents' concerns is insufficient to create these legal exceptions. In the opinion of the Council of State, the initiative proposal can only be justified in the interests of public health. Many of you referred to this and we endorse it. In response to the information provided by the Council of State, the initiators indicate that they are in fact balancing interests in the parliamentary documents. They also indicate that they added public health protection as a secondary objective to the bill. The cabinet still considers that the balance of interests made in those parliamentary documents is insufficient to objectively justify that indirect distinction. I explain this by going deeper into the two objectives that the initiators pursue. The first objective, the primary objective, is transparency for both parents and holders of children's centres. The initiative proposal makes it possible for parents to find out through the National Register for Childcare which childcare organisations have a refusal policy. Parents are thus supposed to be able to make a well informed choice. The initiative proposal provides for transparency of the legal admissibility of a refusal policy for children's centres and thus provides greater legal certainty for holders. However, the initiative proposal only provides for legal certainty and notification to the National Register for Childcare when the holder of a children's centre has a policy of refusal for all vaccinations. For example, the law is laid down in the National Vaccination Programme. So for children's centres which only have a refusal policy for the BMR vaccination, i.e. for mumps, measles and ruffled dogs, this initiative proposal does not provide legal certainty. In these cases, nothing is mentioned in the National Register for Childcare. You have to comply with all the vaccinations. And with that, you only contribute very little to transparency. In addition, there are already childcare organisations that have a policy of refusal for unvaccinated children and for staff. As far as we know, they only have a refusal policy for the BMR vaccination. The question is how many childcare organisations will actually adopt a policy of refusal for the entire National vaccination programme. We are also wondering, as a cabinet, whether this initiative proposal does not make it more unclear for parents. Childcare organisations with a limited refusal policy are therefore not listed in that register. Then there is the secondary objective, the protection of public health. The cabinet lacks here a good basis for the health gains that would result from a policy of refusal. Many of you have referred to this. The initiators argue that the vaccination rate may increase and consider it highly possible that parents who have doubts about vaccination will proceed to have their children still participate in the RVP, the so-called nudging. The cabinet lacks a good basis and therefore questions the effectiveness of these measures on increasing the vaccination rate. Increasing the vaccination rate is ultimately the goal we are going for. Finally, a number of you referred to the fact that there is still a risk of contamination in a childcare facility in a policy of refusal. Children under 14 months of age are not yet vaccinated against bmr. They could develop or transmit these diseases. That was also the point made by the Council of State in its opinion. This could lead to false safety, as Mrs Vos pointed out, because parents are wrongly feeling that their children are safe from infectious diseases in a childcare facility that has a refusal policy. In conclusion, the Cabinet is not convinced that this initiative proposal contributes to the objectives of transparency and public health protection. In our view, the requirement that there should be a necessary means of achieving a legitimate objective is not met. Mr Ganzevoort referred to this on several occasions and asked whether it was true that the reasoning that public health cannot be the purpose of the legislative proposal in a legislative sense is not proven to contribute to public health. That's right. You are right to ask whether we think so. So now I'm gonna skip two pages, Mr President, and I'm gonna move on to the Human Rights College.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u500	You're at the end of a block now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u501	I am now at the end of the block of protection of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u502	I call Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u503	I would like to ask the Minister whether she thinks it is possible that there are parents who, following this bill and the policy that childcare centres are pursuing, are going to make the choice to have their child vaccinated if otherwise they would not have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u504	I think that's quite possible. I also think the opposite is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u505	If this happens, it means that children will be vaccinated, who otherwise would not have been vaccinated. It also protects them more against the infectious diseases for which they have been vaccinated. Doesn't the Minister classify that as a health gain, so as an increase in public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u506	As I have just said, I can also imagine that the opposite is happening, namely that in an already polarized debate about vaccination, it makes people even more steadfast in one or the other view. In addition, we will end up in the statistics, we do not know what happens if some parents say that they are going to vaccinate. Does that make you wonder if you're allowed to refuse people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u507	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u508	I have not yet received an answer to my question. My question was: if parents choose to have their child vaccinated, will those children gain health benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u509	Those individual children obviously have health benefits, but the parents' children who then become extra steadfast not to vaccinate do not have that health benefit. In addition, it is questionable whether this will lead to more vaccinations, or a more active policy in communication, to ensure that the vaccination rate increases. In particular, the Secretary of State will speak about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u510	Once again, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u511	I therefore note that there are children who benefit from this and that there is therefore a health benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u512	I also said that I think there are children who will be less vaccinated. How that turns out, we don't know, so I don't share the conclusion that there is health gain anyway. I just can't predict it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u513	It may be a premature question, because perhaps the Minister will come up shortly. She specifically stated that the National vaccination programme concerns all vaccinations, so all vaccinations. I asked a question about the corona vaccine, which was not answered by Mr Van Meenen. Are you going to go into that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u514	Yes. I've got a whole block on covid. The Secretary of State also has a follow-up block, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u515	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u516	We'll see how fast we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u517	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u518	The College of Human Rights. Your Chamber has put a very clear question to the College of Human Rights. In its reply, the College states that his role has not changed and that he remains competent in concrete situations to assess the refusal policy of childcare organisations. Mr Verkerk and Mr Schalk asked for this. There has been a lot of discussion about it just now. The cabinet endorses the opinion of this college. I shall pass on the further explanation and I will hear it if you have any further questions. Then I'll switch to the Vermeij committee. I think we all recognise the struggle to find a good solution to the vaccination issue. We've had that struggle here tonight. In 2018, our predecessors at Social Affairs and VWS set up the Childcare and Vaccination Committee, the Vermeij Committee, which came up with its advice Grabs. The Vermeij Committee has presented various options for action. In doing so, it indicates that the option of action, as proposed by the initiators, is that legal power for childcare organisations to refuse children who do not participate in the vaccination programme, is not in line with its central principles. First of all, the solution to the problem is put on the label of the sector, while the Vermeij Committee has set out as its starting point that the primary responsibility for taking measures, as a result of a possible fall in vaccination rates, lies with the government and not with childcare. Protection of public health is a public task. As a cabinet, we agree with that. Secondly, like the Council of State, the committee states that providing transparency and parents' concerns are not sufficient grounds for taking legal action. Like the committee, the cabinet feels it is undesirable for the social debate on the reduced vaccination rate to be submitted to childcare organisations with this initiative legislative proposal, as it makes children's centre holders responsible for solving a social problem. Both the AJN Youth Doctors Netherlands and the Branche organisatie Kindervanging also opposed the initiative legislative proposal for similar reasons. They also believe that public health is primarily a public task and that it should remain there. The cabinet agrees with the committee: the only thing that really reduces the risks to children's health is increasing the overall vaccination rate. The Secretary of State will go into this further. Measures other than the initiative proposal are more effective in this respect, for example in the field of information or disinformation. For this reason, we continue to pursue all actions aimed at increasing and sustaining the vaccination rate for the various vaccinations in the RVP. The Secretary of State and I will look together at how we are going to proceed with the opinions of the Vermeij Committee. We will also explicitly consider the role that childcare organisations can play in communicating with parents about vaccination. I will discuss this with industry organisations for childcare. I say to Mrs Gerkens: with attention also to the disadvantaged areas with a low SES. I think you also mentioned Turkish and Moroccan parents. In addition, it is important that the report "Pikken" for each other of the Vermeij Committee makes a distinction between a green, an orange and a red scenario. If the vaccination rate reaches a lower limit to be determined, participation in the RVP is required for access to childcare. In 2019, the previous cabinet indicated that it was in favour of this measure and that it should be further developed. Corona did not do that, but we are going to take that effect up again and see how we intend to follow up on this process. We will inform you about this shortly after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u519	Are you at the end of the block? If you don't, you can finish it quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u520	Yeah, I think I've had the main thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u521	I call Mrs De Bruijn on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u522	Let's get back to the Vermeij committee. You indicated that it is looking at a minimum vaccination rate that it wants to make the intervention depend on, as I indicated in my speech. But at the same time, RIVM says that there is actually no good lower limit or upper limit to be set, especially when it comes to measles infections, which we are talking about. Then how do you interpret the ruling of the RIVM in relation to the opinion of the Vermeij Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u523	The Secretary of State will also address the RIVM. That, of course, is where the relationship with the Vermeij committee comes to light. The main reason for the occurrence of delay was corona, because of course it took away all the capacity. But another reason is that it's quite complex. If you're really gonna think about when you're going from an orange to a red scenario, you're gonna come up with questions like this. But we do know that in a green and orange scenario we can and must do much more in terms of communication, information and highlighting the importance of vaccination. That's what we're looking at right now. The Secretary of State will explain in a moment how we can ensure that the ordinary vaccination programme is put in the spotlight and we can convince more people that it is really important to follow it, with a focus on the groups in which the vaccination rate is lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u524	In line with this. I would like to put a question to the Minister as an advisor to this Chamber. Mr Van Meenen has just told us quite thoroughly: please adopt this law, because the alternative is that at some point there should be some kind of obligation if it does not go better. My question to the Minister is: is that indeed so, or is there still a whole arsenal of things we can do to increase the vaccination rate so that we do not comply with that obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u525	In that case, we are already very much ahead of the debate on what we want to do with the opinions of the Vermeij Committee. We saw ourselves talking about this in the autumn, for example. But as long as we don't get close to the red scenario, we're not there yet, but the expert is on my right. Of course, there are a lot of other measures before you really get to such a mandatory measure. Actually, you want to do this, but then I'm really ahead of the letters of office that we still have to send... that such an obligation will never be necessary, because you're using all those measures so well that you don't get close to that border, that transition from orange to red. But then I'll improvise a cabinet position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u526	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u527	I'm gonna take a look at my colleague. Let us now turn to the implementation issues. Through my experience as a ruler, now a number of months, or 100 days, also responsible for childcare, and as an experienced expert, I know that the implementation in child care country is extremely important. Mrs Vos was actually a bit of a spokesperson for the childcare organisations, but that is important here. I say this also because we want to review legislation with our implementation organisations every time. We now have an execution test at the UWV or the Tax Administration, for example, if they have to do something. You have to take it back and forth if you can do it, if you want to enter it that way. Mr. Van der Voort asked about that, too. How's the performance going? In this proposal, childcare organisations with a refusal policy for all vaccinations in the National Vaccination Programme should check whether the vaccination was received at the age of the child to receive that vaccination. Then you should not only check whether children at the age of 14 months have received the bmr-prick, but also, for example, whether children have had the dktp vaccination. I think you should get those three or four times. Yeah, that's three times in the first year of life and also at the age of four. That's what all the childcare organisations have to keep up with. In that initiative proposal you will get a number of questions about implementation, privacy, registration and supervision. With regard to the latter two, registration and supervision, I say the following. The registration of vaccination data is therefore necessary to check whether the relevant vaccinations have been received. According to the initiators, that is not necessary. The Council of State has reacted critically to the point that registration is not necessary. We share that criticism. We believe that registration is indeed necessary. The second point is supervision. The initiators indicate that monitoring of the initiative proposal is not necessary, but without supervision it remains a matter of trust for parents whether those childcare organisations actually comply with their refusal policy. We therefore believe that monitoring of the initiative proposal is necessary. I'll skip the rest of the performance. These were the main points. Then we go to the relationship with COVID-19. I will briefly comment on that. The Secretary of State will answer any questions on the floor. It is important to include COOVID-19 in the assessment of this initiative proposal. This is part of this legislative proposal, because of the way in which this bill has been drafted and other legislative proposals have been put forward. Since March last year vaccination against COVID-19 has been part of the National vaccination programme. This initiative legislative proposal refers to "the National Vaccination Programme." This means that it also covers vaccination against COVID-19. At the moment, therefore, this concerns staff and children aged between 5 and 12 years, as the initiative proposal affects children's centres and affects extracurricular care for children aged between 5 and 12 years. You know the advice of the Health Council. It advised to make the COVID-19 vaccine available to children between 5 and 12 years of age, if their parents so desire, with understandable information, while ensuring that all forms of urge are avoided. The Council considers that the choice of parents is whether or not to take advantage of the offer of a COOVID-19 vaccination. This must not lead to exclusion from school or social exclusion from those children. The cabinet has taken the advice of the Health Council. However, this proposal for an initiative will enable children who have not been vaccinated for COVID-19 to be excluded from children's centres, i.e. those who have a policy of refusal. Those children do not participate in the entire National Vaccination Programme. The Cabinet considers this undesirable, given the advice of the Health Council. Then I have the block of evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u528	This was the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u529	This was the COVID-19 block, its main lines and its relationship with the initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u530	Then Mr Van der Voort has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u531	Let's check it out. If I understand correctly, the children until, say, 4 years old, who often use the children's centers, are not vaccinated for covid. Or is it also intended to be vaccinated for covid in the first four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u532	The current co-vid programme, which the Secretary of State can explain even better than I start at 5 years. From 5 to 12 years it is offered. It's not just about kids, by the way. It's also about employees, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u533	Exactly. But that would mean that parents who have children under that age limit could simply use the children's centers, also under this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u534	Parents can let their children use the childcare centres. Those are the daycare centers. But children from 5 to 12 years old who are on the bso are covered by the National vaccination programme. The same applies to staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u535	But if children are under 5 years old and parents do not want to have covid vaccination after that, they can simply use the childcare centres for up to 5 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u536	If they have done all the other vaccinations and have thus completed the whole vaccination programme, including dktp and all the things, I think that is true. I think it is important to point out here that COOVID-19, and how it has been designed in legislation at the moment, does indeed have an impact on the implementation of this initiative proposal. We can't see that as two separate cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u537	Look, this is gonna loosen something up. I call on Members to limit the interruptions to two questions. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u538	I'll even try with one question. Here's what I want to know. The Minister says that the legal text states that the requirements of the National vaccination programme must be met, which implies that this also applies to covid, but also to employees who have not been vaccinated for covid. Does this mean that they will no longer be allowed to work at these centres?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u539	The bill deals with the National Vaccination Programme. Of course, that text was drawn up before all the covid rules were in place, but there is the National vaccination programme. That includes covid vaccination. The initiative legislative proposal concerns both children and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u540	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u541	The Minister is now coming up with the story that covid is in the National Vaccination Programme. I assumed that covid may be in the National vaccination programme, but not in the National vaccination programme for children. We're talking about daycare. I don't know any daycare centres where children up to 4 years old with children from 5 to 10, 12 years old are together. Can the Minister say a little more about that? Can you normally keep it separate, so you can have the whole law applied to daycare centers for up to four years? Or does that have to be thrown into one pile?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u542	I think it is very different from one childcare location to another how it is organized. It's not one thing or the other. And yes, the initiative legislative proposal also covers children and employees and the National vaccination programme. The covid vaccinations............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That, of course, went all the way through the House of Representatives. That was the best way the vaccination program could land, so it's just in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u543	Finally, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u544	I can't make it any prettier. Covid's in the National vaccination program.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u545	A little follow-up question. I understand that about those employees. If the children are to be vaccinated, the workers must also be vaccinated. But the question is still ahead: can you assume that there are nurseries up to 4 years where both the employees and the children have nothing to do with that covid vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u546	No, the employees have something to do with the covid vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u547	I have two questions. I'm gonna keep going on this subject. You state: as a government, we are neutral about the initiative proposal. At the same time, I can only hear you give a very large list of why we should not agree to this bill. I haven't heard a single positive point. The bill was submitted in 2019, 2018. Covid wasn't on the table at the time. The covid vaccination is now also part of the National vaccination programme. I can also imagine that at least you are trying to get closer to solving this problem. So here's the question: do you see any possibility of solving this? Because the bill's been here for two years. It's precovid. So we have not taken into account this complication. Can the government be cooperative and at least come forward with a proposal to resolve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u548	I find that very difficult, because we cannot go back now and amend the national vaccination programme because this legislative initiative, which has not yet been adopted, is here. Then you'd have to amend the initiative bill to make sure you don't have that complication, but that's not up to us. That's up to the initiators. We cannot amend an existing law that has been adopted on the National vaccination programme....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The other way around, I think I'm looking at your Chamber, but that's what you're talking about, or that's what the proposers are really about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u549	Finally, Mrs De Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u550	I shall come back to the authors in a moment. I have another question. The bill mainly addresses parents' concerns. I heard you say to us in the Chamber at the inaugural meeting: our society is currently far too determined by small groups shouting loudly, which we all listen to. Here we have a whole group of parents who all do what the norm in this country is: you let them vaccinate you. They ask us: we see people around us who, sometimes for legitimate reasons, sometimes also for all sorts of curious reasons, do something. This initiative proposal tries to address that call. You also say that the government should do this. What has the government done so far? We have now happened to have had two years of covid in between, but even before that time there was a very specific question and very little has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u551	I share the concerns. I'm a parent myself, even though my kids are teenage. Perhaps at the beginning I did not say clearly enough that I greatly appreciate the commitment of the initiators to child care and parents' concerns. That's what I've heard many of you say. The cabinet does, however, have a number of reservations about the way in which this bill has been drafted. How can we respond to parents' concerns? How can we increase the vaccination rate? How can we make sure there are fewer outbreaks? I share all that greatly with you. I also share the view that there is a role for childcare organisations. That's what we're gonna talk to. My colleague, Mr Van Ooijen, will be discussing how the vaccination programme is going and what we want to do about it. We will come together to the House of Representatives and then to your Chamber to indicate how we see the further development of the vaccination programme, in particular the opinions of the Vermeij Committee. They are all about the same concerns that we share here, namely that we need to increase the vaccination rate and that we need to ensure that the parents who respect all the rules can still do so. How come someone else doesn't stick to that? Are there good reasons for that or not? How are we all gonna get that vaccination rate up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u552	Mr Van der Voort, you already had your two questions, but one more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u553	Thank you very much for this coulance, Mr. Chairman. The issue of covid intrigues me. We are still in the middle of the pandemic with a developing virus and also a developing vaccine. In the meantime, there's a vaccine against the omikron variant. There is still a lot of development going on in the coming period. I can imagine that the government's vaccination policy on covid is still developing in the coming years. So how can we take that into account, bearing in mind that this bill concerns seven other vaccinations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u554	This bill was originally about the then national vaccination programme, i.e. seven or eight vaccinations. There's covid added to that. This naturally has an impact on this proposal. I can't predict if there will be any other vaccinations against a new virus. No one can predict that. Suppose this would happen and this proposal would have been adopted. If a new law is then made for another vaccination, then you know that you need to take existing legislation into account at that time. At the time covid was added to the National vaccination programme this was not yet existing legislation. That's how it turned out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u555	Mr Schalk, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u556	A question of clarification about the first four years of a child's life. If there is a law in the near future in which a nursery can set a certain rule, can they indicate that the children under 4 must also have been vaccinated for the coronavirus? Or can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u557	No. I'll take a look at the Secretary of State just in case. In any case, it is against the advice of the Health Council, but as long as it is in the National vaccination programme, which it is not, you do not have to register it and refuse children on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u558	Okay, so it's really going for kids from 5 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u559	Yeah, that's the bso.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u560	Then, of course, my follow-up question is next. It has just been suggested that children of different ages are not together, but that seems impossible to me. There are many possible situations in which children after school are also taken care of in day care centres, I think. And the staff is obligated anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u561	Yes. Staff are in any case covered by the National Vaccination Programme and are therefore covered by the initiative proposal as well by the question whether they have participated in the National Vaccination Programme. As far as I know, there are a lot of children's centers where the kids run from 0 to 12. Some will not and some will, but we cannot rule that out. Definitely not. In fact, that happens in a broad sense of course. Then I'll be at the review section. The second letter of amendment, which I also say to Mr Van der Voort and to the authors of the amendment, has indeed added an evaluation clause. Within two years of the entry into force of the law, a report on the effectiveness and effects of this law will be presented in practice. The cabinet considers the two-year deadline to be too short. Normally you have five years to evaluate something, especially because the questions about evaluation go quite wide. These are about the achievement of the objective and about side effects such as proportionality, subsidiarity, feasibility, enforcement, alignment, simplicity, clarity and accessibility of the law. That is why, as a cabinet, we would say: a normal five-year evaluation period. But the parts of the law's evaluation are the good parts. Then I have a few more questions in the block of varia, as far as they haven't come in between. The Christian Union and the SGP have asked whether the desired clarity about the admission policy of the services of the children's centres can also be provided in a different way, for example by a hand-out. Oh, yeah. If we go into communication, we can include the hand-out as a contribution to clarity for childcare organisations in the drafting of refusal policies. I have now answered Mrs Gerkens' question. Mr Schalk asked about vaccination coercion and urge in schools. Mr Van Meenen also replied. Childcare organisations are, of course, private organisations. Schools are public organisations, and with this they are obliged, because of their compulsory education, to include pupils. So it does apply to the bso, but not to the schools. You can of course go to the schools, regardless of whether you have been vaccinated, because there is compulsory education. A bso, as a private organisation for the same age group, naturally has an independent consideration and can force children under this law. However, in our view, the initiative proposal aimed at private organisations will not lead to any kind of vaccination urge in schools. We therefore agree with the proposers on this. Then I think I have dealt with most of the main issues and also answered a number of different questions. I'll take a look around the room. Then I look at my colleague Van Ooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u562	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased to be standing here with you tonight. This is my first time, my scoop, in the Senate. That is, of course, a special moment. It's also a hundredth day, I understand. I didn't know it myself, but Mr Schalk just recalled it. The age difference has become clear, because what we were talking about was grandpa's and grandma's, in this context, really about my children who are of this age. Nevertheless, I am very pleased to be here. Mr. Chairman. I've identified four cubes. I'm trying to keep it short and concise. I'm going to give you a few facts and figures very briefly. Then I will say something about vaccination policy. Communication is the third block. Finally, there are the other questions. First of all, what exactly is the situation with the facts and figures? It has already been discussed in the debate, but I would like to make it quite clear. I've got it right here, too. When it comes to the birth cohorts, we did indeed see a falling line until 2016. Then my predecessor wrote a rather alarming letter, further with vaccination, and also made a number of choices to tighten up the vaccination programme, the RVP. That's what happened then. At that time, the proposal for an own-initiative act was also tabled. Now it actually comes together. There really was an urgency, because you saw that falling trend. At that time, we were lucky to see that trend recovered somewhat. In the middle of the covid situation we are indeed seeing a slight deterioration of 1 to 2 percentage points. I would also like to point out that this slight deterioration is indeed a deterioration, and at the same time a relative deterioration in the European perspective. If you look at how the Dutch RVP did it compared to the rest of Europe, fortunately it has been quite good. At the same time, I would also like to say that the figures are below the WHO level of 95%. This therefore calls for a firm and alert attitude towards this programme. So we will also have to continue with the RVP and increase the vaccination rate. That is what I would like to say in a general sense, to indicate what we are doing now. You can continue to fill that out yourself. Then I have one more question in this block about clustering. In this respect, the cabinet initially said, at the time of the first appreciation of the bill, that there might be a cluster risk. The RIVM then said: that may not be the case. The reasoning behind this is that RIVM states that, in particular, the national vaccination rate ultimately determines the risk of an outbreak at a location, and the specific vaccination rate at locations to a lesser extent. So what RIVM is saying about that potentially increased risk of cluster contamination is actually a nuance to the government's first appreciation. Then I go to my second block, namely vaccination policy. I'm just going to answer some of the questions for a second. The VVD had a question about this. She said: the WHO is actually calling for vaccination to be brought to the highest possible level and to actively combat the falling trend. I very much agree with that. I've already turned that in. My predecessor also said about this urgent downward trend: we really need to get to work on this. He introduced the action plan Further with vaccination. I am going to elaborate on this before the summer. I am going to look into how we can also strengthen this action plan with the current facts. There are all kinds of wonderful examples of how to do that best, but for the summer I will come to the House of Representatives, and if you wish of course also to the House of Representatives, with an explanation of how that action plan will be further strengthened. There was also a question about D66, namely: what does the government intend to keep that vaccination rate high? I told you, quite a firm policy has been put in place. There is still a great deal going on in this area, including an invitation to provide additional information, to send repeat calls, to check contact moments and to see if there are still open vaccinations. All this is done within the framework of the 1 or 2 percentage points lower presence around the covid vaccinations of the other National vaccination programme. GroenLinks asked to zoom in on different groups, because that might help to get a little more insight into what helps within which group. I'm just gonna get two groups out of it anyway. That's the vaccination rate of people in the Biblebelt. The second is residents of specific neighbourhoods in the major cities. Interestingly enough I can also share something about both groups from my own experience. I'm not gonna do all of that, but I think I can point it out a little bit. First of all, the Biblebelt. We can see that the jgz has made a number of additional interventions here too. In Barneveld, for example, a standard conversation is offered about vaccinations. The results are actually very positive. Almost all parents visit the consultation. The first experience is that the consultation is highly appreciated, gives a lot of knowledge to parents about vaccination that they did not have and removes incorrect information. This is an example of how we address this particular issue. Another target group is, of course, the people in the specific neighbourhoods in the big cities. What we're doing there is basically working with key figures. Neighborhoods in The Hague and Utrecht have made very specific and targeted choices: extra time for professionals to engage in conversation with parents, after calling parents, because very often it is not an active, but an inactive choice, and sometimes also on the spot vaccinate during home visits. Mr Ganzevoort also asked: is there any reason to doubt the policy in view of the progress of the vaccination rate? I should like to say the following. If you look at the impact of the primary choices that have been made around continuing to vaccinate, we are lucky to see that the vaccination rate increased during the same period. I am careful to say that this is directly related to each other. Because there are so many autonomous effects that we cannot link them all to. I would therefore like to reply in particular: it is still a very urgent matter to be constantly working to increase the vaccination rate. He is still not at the safe level, at the 95% of the WHO. In short, there is still work to be done. But fortunately, the declining trend has been slightly reversed. That was badly needed, otherwise we might have come under 90%. Mrs Vos asked: is it not better or safer to use other measures than those through childcare? I would just like to say one thing about this, namely that the greatest safety we can offer children is ultimately the overall vaccination rate. That is ultimately the factor that leads to the most security. That is what the cabinet is committed to as much as possible. Then I move on to the third block, namely the vaccination communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u564	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the concrete examples, even when it comes to what happens for specific groups. They speak to the imagination. I can imagine it working. Can he also say something, not only about the appreciation that parents have for these talks, but also about whether that actually leads to more willingness to have them vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u565	I don't have any specific figures. Of course, you can measure the effect in all kinds of ways. In the measurement of performance, namely whether such a specific measure has an effect for that particular moment, we do indeed see positive effects. But if you zoom something out again and see if it actually leads to that higher vaccination rate in such a region or neighborhood, then you should always be careful with too quick and too easy inferences. We are pleased to see that effective measures are in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u566	I have a quick question. Maybe it will come up later, but I had asked the question in the block of vaccination if as a parent you can voluntarily ask for earlier...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u567	You will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u568	Let's talk about vaccination policy. If I have listened carefully to Mr Van Meenen's final words, he suggested that, if you are not in favour of this law, you should take stronger and far more binding measures into account later. My question to you is: do you have more instruments than just this law? If you estimate the effect of the different instruments you have on the level of voluntaryity, do you say: I have a range of instruments? Or do you say, "Well, I'm getting to the mandatory character that Mr Van Meenen suggested?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u569	In general, I would like to say that, when the vaccination rate fell, the government, like the initiators, took care after three consecutive years to expect that it would increase autonomously, also because it was also visible in a European context. Then there was a first package with Further Vaccines. Then we were lucky to see that trend recovered somewhat. Now we see a very special period, which equals covid. It is difficult to draw an immediate conclusion. I'm watching to think it can only be with low-hanging fruit. For the moment, we have that in the package, and that is also the commitment of the cabinet, but we will, of course, see how that develops. We assume, of course, that the basis of trust ultimately leads to parents making choices for vaccination. We are going to take a step-by-step look at how it is developing, and we are also going to look at what measures are proportionate and necessary. Then I'm gonna go to the comm block. First of all, there was a clear request from the CDA to make an explicit commitment on adequate and personal communication. I would like to say that I can give my heartfelt commitment. Good communication on the importance of vaccination is indeed essential. In many ways, we can also improve that communication. I explicitly take this point into account in the next improvement package of Further Vaccines. That was also one of the questions the VVD asked. The style of government communication wasn't exactly appealing, the spokesperson said. Can't that be a little firmer? I know what you're saying and the examples you mentioned. I am very willing to take a closer look at that. I would like to make a few comments. We look very closely at how that communication message has the greatest effect. In general, I would like to say that not necessarily for the people in this room, but especially for the people sitting at the kitchen table. This shows that a more positive frame is generally more effective than a more negative frame. So protecting against disease often works better for the target group than, for example, avoiding diseases. That's just the more positive or negative side. It might happen if: isn't it too lethargy and too quiet? But in the end, we choose the communication that is most effective. On that note, I would like to take up your question. There is one more question in this block and then the block of communication is complete. That is Mr Verkerk's question about investing in relationships with individual parents. That is an effective approach, which worked in South Limburg. I must say, indeed, that we now know, on the basis of scientific findings, that the more personal and confidence-building that communication is, the better it will work. Let me make the comparison with a completely different vaccination, namely the flu shot. We know that it had a huge effect when the GP himself sent the invitation to people from his practice to invite them to it. That has been an unmistakably great effect. So that personal side of communicating is extremely important. That's what we invest in. In fact, I can say that I recognize your experiences very well. Mr. Chairman. That is also the conclusion of the block on communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u570	I share many of the things the Secretary of State has just said about communication and communication style. I am also glad that he admits that there is still a need to look into whether we can do this more appealingly. I also agree that you have to choose different styles for each target group. On the other hand, we are obviously doing something wrong in the Netherlands. I think it is right to point out that people in the big neighbourhoods in the big cities, for example, are less involved in the question of whether you should have your child vaccinated. Language problems could possibly play a role there. At the same time, countries that are close to us are well above that 95% vaccination rate. These countries have the same population composition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u571	So what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u572	In other words, we are obviously not doing something right. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see why the other countries are much more successful in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u573	I propose that we keep it within the context of this bill, even if it concerns the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u574	I'd be happy to do that, I'd like to say. If we share with you the improvement approach of Further Vaccines, we will also look at how we are actually doing in an international context and, above all, at what we learn from our international colleagues about how they are doing. So I'm happy to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u575	Mr Van der Voort, also on the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u576	Sure. I would like to join Mrs De Bruijn. I would just like to check whether we are indeed hearing it here as a commitment that the Secretary of State is going to see how communication is going at the moment and where it can be improved, so that the vaccination rate can increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u577	That's right. I'll take that in the letter I announced. Then I go to the other block, with some very precise and specific questions. One of those questions was from Mrs Vos, namely: could it be possible to vaccinate the child earlier at the BMR vaccination, i.e. after six months instead of 14 months? The short answer is: yes, it can, for example, if the child is travelling to an increased risk area for measles. However, it is given in principle at 14 months, because the vaccine is optimal during that period. So if the child were to be vaccinated earlier, it will probably have to be vaccinated three times. It is always an individual consideration of the parents in consultation with the jgz. Then there was a specific question from Mr Verkerk, namely: would this bill be an amendment to the policy on outbreaks? Does this mean that the policy needs to be adapted to the specific issue? For the sake of shortness, too, I do not think this is the issue. There is a very strong policy on how the government acts in consultation with the childcare providers. This policy does not necessarily require adaptation by this legislation. I can work it out even further, but I don't think that's necessary right now. Then there were indeed a number of specific questions about the relationship with the covid vaccine. The Minister has, of course, already responded to this. Just for the sake of clarity: legally the covid vaccination is indeed part of the National vaccination programme. This programme is also for adults, but at the RVP we mainly think about children. In this case, we also used the RVP for adults, because it is a very good public law ground for this covid vaccination. So the line of expectation is not to keep this temporary. I think that was a question from the PVV. It's not temporary, by the way. It is not the expectation to get it out soon, because that legal ground there is actually quite good. Practically speaking, everyone knows that. Everyone knows the RVP of the jgz, the consultation offices or how it is arranged in the region. Of course, that was very different with the covid vaccinations. At covid we think of the halls and the general practitioner for some groups. Practically speaking, it has a very different look and feel. Legally and legally, it is really part of the same legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u578	Finish the block of other questions first, as agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u579	I think that was my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u580	I call Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u581	I'm still intrigued by the story about covid. We are, of course, still developing the pandemic and the vaccinations in it. I understand very well that the National Vaccination Programme has been used to deactivate that vaccination. At the same time, my own assessment is that it is unlikely that this will be a long-term and permanent vaccination that belongs in this vaccination programme. After all, we don't do it with influenza, do we? That's also a virus that's different every year. We expect Corona to be different every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u582	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u583	So my question is: is it not premature for the Secretary of State to say that this has a permanent place in the National vaccination programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u584	You're absolutely right about that. Of course, that conversation needs to be continued. I'm just lighting up a little bit of the veil of thought right now. The question again, I thought he was from the PVV was whether it wasn't temporary. It's not temporary right now. That is the factual legal reality. In the direction of thought we are now in, we have also looked at what has been indicated to us in relation to the continuation of vaccination. That is precisely to integrate the useful and pleasant way of working the National vaccination programme from 0 to 18 much more for that entire adult chain. There we are also talking more and more about vaccination 0 to 100, because of course vaccinations are also given at a later age. The direction of thought we are now in is precisely to use the useful and very effective ground further. You're right. We will continue this discussion and Chambers and whoever else may have a different view of it in the future. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u585	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I must point out that at the end of the second period, the applicants requested a 20-minute suspension for consideration, after which the second period on the part of the proposers and then the second period on the part of the government will follow, so that you all know what the follow-up to this evening is. So we now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u586	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Counsel is always good, even if it requires a suspension. Many thanks to the initiators. Many thanks to the government, too. If I let the debate go through like that, it's complicated considerations. It is, I say to the initiators, not just a political weighting. That wouldn't do justice to the conversation we're having. It is mainly a weighting of law quality, of the relationship between objectives and effectiveness, the side effects and so on. If this were really a political weighting, you would see a totally different division of groups supporting the proposal and groups asking a lot of critical questions. The whole division of the Chamber shows that it is not a purely political and certainly not a party political weighting, but that it is about other things. I said earlier that I find it a bit unfortunate that the initiators in answering our questions do not show very much openness and, perhaps even more complicated, selective shopping in the data. In the whole discussion we have had about whether there is an increase or a decrease, about what exactly the risks and the possible effects are, I thought that was a little selective. I'm sorry to hear that. That also played a bit in the discussions about the College of Human Rights. Let me highlight one part to sharpen that up a little bit. If a children's center decides, Mrs Gerkens quoted from the explanatory memorandum "to allow a limited number of unvaccinated children," the decision of the children's center is by definition arbitrary. What kind of child are you gonna let in? What child won't let you in? The moment you take an arbitrary stance, there is no consistent policy. At the time when there is no consistent policy, there is no objective justification within the meaning of the AWGB. In other words, once you opt for limited refusal, the CRM can by definition make a ruling. I do not know why that would not be possible, because then the question is why this child is admitted and not my child. This is a matter of particular concern to the College of Human Rights. Perhaps the initiators will be able to respond to that. In the case of a general refusal, I could imagine another argument. I would not, but I could imagine it, but in the case of a limited refusal, I would ask the initiators whether it is not necessarily the case that a weighting is made whereby one child is admitted and the other is not and therefore there could be discrimination, and so the college could say something about it. We have heard an important clarification, also thanks to the advice of the government, that this will also apply to the BSO and that the covid requirements in the RVP will apply in full to at least the childcare staff. I should like to take a look at Mr Van Strien and Mr Van Pareren, because I know that they have their thoughts on the covid requirements and the like. If a children's centre opts for a refusal related to the National vaccination programme, that means that all employees who do not follow the covid vaccination are excluded from working at that children's centre. At least that's a new insight for me. The question of subsidiarity. I asked whether this is the lightest measure for increasing vaccination rates, which is the most important measure of public health. Mr Van Meenen said that this is the lightest. I'm not convinced of that at all. Segregation between vaccinated and unvaccinated children is not the solution. However, increasing the vaccination rate is important. We have heard a lot about this from the Secretary of State, especially in vulnerable groups. Even in parents who do not so much deliberately choose against vaccination, but do not or do not do so for all kinds of reasons, effective interventions appear to be being used. The underlying question throughout this day is whether this law achieves the goal. If so, what purpose? In the legal sense, as the Minister agrees, public health cannot be the objective, because it is not sufficiently effective and effective. Transparency is, but that objective is not sufficiently legitimate. That really leaves us with an uncomfortable feeling. Maybe I can sum it up in this way: what might have seemed a good idea in 2018, namely to do something about the band of admission to nursery schools about the degree of vaccination and transparency, turns out to be a legislative proposal that might have some effect in 2022, but that is, above all, messy. My group is going to consider, in particular, whether the positive effect that there may be is so great that we will take the risks and the moderate quality of the law for granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u587	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Mrs Gerkens has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u588	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by saying that I greatly appreciate the perseverance with which the proposers have defended this bill this evening. I understand that sometimes there is resentment, but it is the role of this Chamber to check the quality of the bill before it. You will understand that we are critical of this bill, but not because we do not believe that the daycare centre could play a role in the coverage of the National Vaccination Programme. The Vermeij committee says the same thing. But such a policy should apply to all daycare centres and aim to improve public health. This bill does not do that and it is possible to violate the AWGB and human rights. Mr. Chairman. In addition, my group believes that, even if there were, this would not achieve the objective. Mr Van Meenen himself says this: it is only a marginal improvement that could also be achieved in another way. The group that could possibly go through this law towards vaccination could also be reached by entering into the conversation, because it is about that conversation, that explanation and approaching that group. In addition, I say with Mr Ganzevoort, the author shoppers in the statements of important bodies, such as the Human Rights College and the Council of State. He also shows a bit of creativity in the legislative text, rather than listening to the criticism that there is, as Mr Ganzevoort suggested. He tried to fix it instead of mating it. That is not a political balance, but a purely legal and legislative balance. I also welcome the government's commitment that it is going to pursue the results of the Vermeij Committee with speed. That's really necessary. The Government's response has also given a different twist to the debate. Apart from the road to the goal, the wording of the legislative text is such that it now presents a problem with COOVID-19, but frankly the problem would also be there in the future. In fact, it is not specific enough to prevent undesirable side effects from occurring with this legislation. Mr President, I say it again. We really share the health goal. It is extremely important that we get that vaccination rate up. And again, I greatly appreciate that there is an attempt by the proposers to do so with this law. However, the text of the law misses its purpose, has annoying side effects and does not achieve what it should achieve. That is why my group will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u589	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. Then the floor is for Mrs Prins to speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u590	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Meenen and both of them for their passionate answers. You can see that the subject really concerns them. And yet a few questions remain with us gnawing. The various responses of the initiators indicate that the primary objective of the Initiative Act is the freedom of choice of parents. At the same time, this evening, during the reaction, it is stated that children's interests are the most important. Of course, the CDA Group fully supports the latter. In the end, we believe it is about increasing the vaccination rate. We are therefore pleased that the government is going to step up the current plans for communication and intervention. And yes, from my communication experience I can indicate that a positive input generally has more effect. We are therefore curious about the further plans of the cabinet. Article 24 of the UN Children's Rights Committee states that the government has a duty of care to inform parents of factors affecting the child's health and to ensure that parents can make an informed choice. There is no indication in the law that the government is going to provide information on this matter. No, it is left to the individual organisations. That does not seem to us to be entirely in line with what is intended. The National Vaccination Programme has recently been extended to include the COOVID-19 vaccinations. That became quite clear tonight. This therefore has an impact on this law: on children between 5 and 12 years old, but especially on employees. In my view, that is much more relevant. It is good that this is clear to all of us, because this means that employees at childcare centres who go for this should be explicitly vaccinated by this law. I'd like to see that confirmed again. If they haven't been vaccinated yet, they'll still have to. Otherwise, we're gonna have another discussion. This also has implications for existing staff at childcare centres. The CDA Group regrets that the initiators see it as a political choice for or against this law. In our view, they therefore ignore the various considerations, facts and objections that some in this Chamber have expressed about the construction and the legal status of this initiative proposal. Like Mr Ganzevoort and Mrs Gerkens, we are going to discuss the effectiveness of this law in relation to the moderate state of law and the difficult feasibility of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u591	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. I call Mr Van der Voort, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress that we are very much in favour of vaccinations, and that is why we support this proposal. Any vaccination, whether or not provoked by this law, is a contribution to the health of the vaccinated child and his or her environment. I said that the increase in vaccination rates was not demonstrated by this bill, but that this could happen just like that. I say this in order to correct the interpretation that Mr Ganzevoort gave of my statements earlier today. In any case, any child who is to be vaccinated by this bill will benefit from it and thereby gain health benefits. Moreover, it is difficult for me to imagine, as the Minister suggested, that more people will not have their children vaccinated instead. I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. I would also like to say that this proposal does not in any way impose any obligations on parents or children's centres. This also means that, for administrative reasons, child centres can choose not to refuse children, or vice versa. I find it intriguing to note in this debate that the parties with confessional supporters are not enthusiastic about this bill. After all, non-vaccinated residents benefit from a high vaccination rate, by the way, like others. If this bill then contributes to a higher vaccination rate, then it is beneficial for everyone. Let's talk about covid vaccination. Honestly, I can't imagine the corona vaccine staying in the National Vaccination Programme. Influenza's not in there either. The covid vaccination has now been introduced for practical reasons. Therefore, in this debate, let us not be deceived by the situation as it currently exists. Having noted all this, D66 remains in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u593	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u594	A small question to Mr Van der Voort. The legal situation is now that the covid vaccination is housed in the RVP. If this law is adopted, then the legal situation is that child care workers who have not been vaccinated should be dismissed from the child centres that use this refusal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u595	I don't know about that firing, but what I'm saying is that it's highly uncertain for the longer term whether the corona vaccination stays in the RVP. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u596	For the longer term this could be possible, but for the short term it is true that we have already received the explanation. If Mr Van der Voort does not know that, then perhaps the government could say something about it. That explanation is: if a child centre opts for this ground of refusal, then it includes the employees who are not currently vaccinated against covid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u597	That is certainly the case when a children's center now chooses to do so. But as a child center you can also choose not to pursue that policy for a while, and in a while you will, for example when the corona vaccination is no longer in the RVP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u598	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u599	But if pioneers like Berend Botje have employees who have not been vaccinated, then those employees currently have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u600	In any case, they will have to have that conversation with those employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u601	I have a question for Mr Van der Voort. I can imagine Mr Van der Voort saying: if you communicate carefully about this, it will in principle lead to an increase in the vaccination rate, because every child who is vaccinated means a small health gain. But if it is known that covid is in the National Vaccination Programme and that the consequence is that every child center that currently wants to implement a refusal policy simply has to fire its unvaccinated employees, then that will lead to a great discussion about vaccination. Can you explain to me whether such a great discussion does not have a negative effect on the vaccination rate? And it may well be that the positive point of the single child also has a significant effect on the negative side of the balance. I can't predict what the final conclusion will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u602	Mr Verkerk and Mr Ganzevoort assume that employees must be dismissed. I don't know if that's the way it should be, but at least something like that will have to happen. Whether it goes as far as you propose it here, I would not say so firmly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u603	I have to say honestly that I am not a labour force worker, so I will not rule on this either. In any case, it leads to great social unrest. And social unrest is not positive for the vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u604	I think the problem's gonna be bigger than it has to be. That's why I don't think we need to talk about it this way. At least I interpret it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u605	I do not want to be very dramatic about it either, but it is indeed a fact that the COOVID-19 vaccination is now covered by the National vaccination programme. This means that this aspect will be taken into account if daycare centres want to pursue the policy. I can imagine a lot of daycare centers thinking: that's getting too complicated for me, so let's not do it. Then we'd have another law that would pass her purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u606	I notice that the covid vaccination is being done quite dramatically, but it is of course an excellent vaccine that also has an excellent effect in a pandemic. So let's not make that issue any bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u607	I'm not making the issue bigger than it is. I don't have a problem with it at all. I've had my own vaccinations. I only note that there is still some discussion within society and that there will indeed be staff who have not been vaccinated. This may call for a discussion at such a daycare center that the daycare center would not have wanted to have. That would have preferred to have a discussion about measles and therefore thinks: well, then we are not going to do anything, because we do not have to conduct a policy. They simply cannot conduct policies. All they have to do is report it. So we have a law that is de facto not going to work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u608	A lot of assumptions are made about how children's centers, parents and employees will deal with this when this law is passed. I think it goes too far to speculate about that now. It could be quite different from what is being proposed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u609	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u610	But on "it might be" I don't think you should legislate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u611	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u612	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators for their comprehensive answers to the questions about really all aspects of the draft initiative. I agree with them that this proposal is the least radical proposal to improve public health in the field of vaccination against childhood diseases. I am therefore all the more sorry that the government, the Minister and the Secretary of State, has just done everything possible to bring this sympathetic initiative proposal into the ground as expertly as possible, without, moreover, offering a reasonable alternative. For me, this obstruction, probably also in implementation, leads to a situation in which I have to consider a final position with my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u613	Mr Van Strien states that he has discovered some obstruction with the rulers. But during the debate I raised the issue of COOVID-19. I had the impression that it was a big surprise for most of us that COOVID-19 is part of the programme. The initiators could not have thought of that at the time. Maybe they didn't come up with the mid-term either. But that must of course come out loud and clear in society. I must not forget that we are adopting a law here under the motto 'this is about bmr' and that suddenly a very large group of people are confronted with the fact that staff or children must also have the mandatory vaccinations for covid. My question to Mr Van Strien is whether he was aware of this in advance. If so, why didn't he report it? But if not, doesn't that change your opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u614	I know Mr Schalk in general as a very good listener, but this time I have to catch him listening badly. I mentioned COOVID-19 first in my first term. This is the first point I mentioned. For me, it was a question of: that must be resolved. COVID-19 is in the National vaccination programme, and I already knew that, but I thought that does not apply to children, so we simply need to find a solution. I have only heard from the government: we are not going to solve that at all; we are only going to make that problem worse. So I've heard. For me, that leads to the situation that I now have to consider with my group how we deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u615	I understand. At least I want to make something right. I have, of course, heard that Mr Van Strien spoke about covid. Maybe I didn't listen well enough, but I didn't hear him say that he realized at that time that the requirement for covid vaccinations was also included in this bill. I don't think anyone else heard that either, because there would have been more interruptions. I know Mr Van Strien mentioned covid. I ask him whether he realized at that time that anyone who has not been vaccinated will be fired, or that the children of the daycare center will be expelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u616	The only question I asked in my first term was about COOVID-19. I would suggest that Mr Schalk repeat the text at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u617	I'd like to give it a try anyway. Did Mr Van Strien realize that with this bill there would be an indirect subsidy it would all be indirect coercion to have you vaccinated for corona, for the staff of the daycare centers who choose to make use of the possibility of the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u618	No. I assumed that COVID-19 is in the National vaccination programme, but not in the National vaccination programme for children. That is why I asked a question about this, but I assumed it was not included in the vaccination programme for children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u619	So, in the feedback to your group, you will report that there is implicitly an indirect obligation for employees of daycare centres to be vaccinated for corona, if the daycare centre wants to give that freedom of choice that you are quite right to be so happy about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u620	Yeah, that freedom of choice is still there, of course. I agree with Mr Van der Voort. It is not the case that if this law is passed, all employees at all daycare centres should be required to be vaccinated against covid on penalty of dismissal. That's not the point. The freedom of choice remains. It's an extra complication, but that freedom of choice remains there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u621	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u622	I do not think that many daycare centres have realised that they should also ask the employees. This may also lead to the law not doing so much in the end. Is that what you mean by "obstruction"? You were just talking about government obstruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u623	Yes, the government's obstruction is explicit, as I have heard: well, that COVID-19 is really going to play a role in the daycare centers in choosing whether to join or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u624	I'm also quite critical of the government sometimes, but I don't think this is obstruction. This is a clarification of something that we have not realised, namely that the corona vaccination is currently also in the National vaccination programme and that it is also about the adult employees. I don't call that obstruction. I'm just calling that an enlightenment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u625	Over the past few years, I have had the impression that the government was talking about clarification, while we had a strong impression that it was about obstruction. That is also the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u626	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mr Verkerk has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u627	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking the initiators. It has been said before: they have had a long journey. They're close to the target now. If you look at the debate, it is only a question of whether or not that goal is going to be achieved. I would also like to thank the Minister for the clear answers, including the questions raised by our group. The same goes for the Secretary of State. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. When we discussed my draft contribution in the group, we said: let us enter the debate with a bit of openness and say here and there that we have some doubts about the interpretation of the documents we had and the interpretation of ourselves. That's mainly because there's a lot of sympathy in this bill, because it's about kids. Very specific: it is about our own children and grandchildren. When I look at the debate, I've gone a little up and down in my mind. When I heard the first pieces of the defense, I thought, "Hey, I'm gonna have second thoughts." When I heard the government's arguments again later, I thought, "Hey, is it right that I start to doubt?" In any case, as a group, we are going to make up our minds. I would like to mention a few points. For me, the real question remains whether this law is necessary. Does this law offer a proper basis? It is striking that the government has given a very different answer than the initiators. That is also what we shall relate to. I don't know if there's a real or ultimate truth. Whether it is a good instrument is also a very fair question for me. This also has to do with the fact that "one size fits all" instruments simply do not work. We're about to find out. The Secretary of State has told us about a number of experiments in Barneveld and in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. I also understand that this is going to be a policy. Will he also promise that that policy is going to be? I have to tell you, I have more faith in that. Then there was the point made by the initiators: if you do not support this, you are actually asking for more mandatory measures. I was a little unhappy when I heard that, because some of the critical remarks made by this Chamber had nothing to do with intentions, not even with politics, but with the law as it stands. I recognize that when it comes to protection, you have micro-effects, but the honest answer is that you also have macro-effects. I'm not gonna be poor with the question of who knows the best statistics. That is not your intention, nor mine, but honesty requires me to say that, when I read the RIVM report, I am not convinced that this law will make a positive contribution at a slightly more macro level. Finally, the fact that covid is part of the national vaccination programme gives us some concern. I'll tell you why. In the contribution to the covid debates, our group has often stressed that we consider communication to be extremely important, because we find the growing social contradictions very unfortunate. We think this is bad for society's "together." We have seen that, despite the fact that the government has recently communicated better on this point, polarisation has increased rather than decreased. That means that, if we have to say honestly that covid is covered, I am not at all satisfied that this overall leads to a higher vaccination rate. I would ask the initiators to reflect on this. Finally, I would like to make the following comment. I have already said to Mr Van Strien that I share the interests of the PVV voters. However, if I look at the adoption of this law... 29% of the PVV voters are unvaccinated and 85% of the Forum for Democracy voters................................................................................................................................................... Then I wonder: if this law applies to covid, these voters in particular will be disadvantaged. That's something I wouldn't want either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u628	That puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u629	Hurry. Just a few more sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u630	Kill him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u631	When I look at the lock, there's something that makes me doubt. That is what we in the group are discussing. That is the fact that the government has indicated, and I do share that, that there are all kinds of questions about the primary and secondary purpose of this law. I'm sensitive to the point of "helping all the bits," but are all the bits, the more legal questions and the outcome questions of this law well balanced? I doubt that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u632	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mr Van Pareren, on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u633	I would like to remind you that I am currently in the Nanninga Group and will be sitting there as well. I regret that your honesty, probably due to the late hour now, makes you so grim. You're not comfortable hanging out with me right now. You're annoyed. I'd like to ask you to bring your business better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u634	Well, that's an advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u635	That's a judgment. If Mr Van Pareren makes that judgment, I will look in the mirror for a moment. I must say that this was absolutely not my intention. I've kept my story with arguments, too. I can't say more than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u636	Thank you. Mrs Van Pareren, on behalf of the Nanninga Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u637	I'll be right back. You mentioned arguments, but you didn't use any arguments. You come up with a loose remark, so that's not a stylish way to talk. You can talk yourself out of it, but I think this is very low.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u638	Now it's gonna be a personal fact. That's out of place here. That is also offensive, so I do not wish you to address a colleague in this way. Nor am I going to give you the floor to make another interruption. This is it, Mr. Van Pareren. Mr. Verkerk, thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u639	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I too would of course like to thank the initiators and the two directors for their comprehensive answers to our questions. Mr. Chairman. Why are we having this debate here? Because not only parents and the initiators, but also we are all concerned about the low participation in the National vaccination programme in the Netherlands. We really need to be on top of it to improve that. First of all, I would like to pass on a few points which we have received in the answer to the questions. Then I shall begin, in random order, with the answer of the Minister, who indicated that she really is going to work on the opinion of the Verweij committee. I hope I can accept that as a commitment from the Minister. I would therefore like the Minister to give us an assurance that she will inform us about the planning and how she will proceed with the plan of action. I would like a commitment from the Minister on this. Then the Secretary of State. It is good that he indicates that he will come up with an action plan before the summer to see how the vaccination rate can be increased. I am also glad that he indicates that he realises that this is probably not just about the low-hanging fruit and that several steps may need to be taken. So you too, Secretary of State, I hold to that. I look forward to seeing your action plan. I also consider it to be a commitment, Mr Van der Voort, that you will also pay attention to communication for the different target groups and that this will also be part of the action plan. I shall now turn to the question raised this evening about the National vaccination programme, which includes covid vaccination. We also see that this could be a complicating factor. But I would also like the reaction of the initiators to this. How do they think they can handle this? So I would like to get a response to that in the second term. Mr. Chairman. It is not for nothing that I started with the World Health Organisation and the task of governments to bring the vaccination programme to the highest possible level. For example, our neighbours in the South are amazed at the situation in the Netherlands. That's why I said take a look abroad. They do not yet have to worry about a decreasing vaccination rate, because the vaccination rate in Belgium is still around 96%. I have therefore prepared some quotes from a Belgian newspaper from 2019. They're probably a little illustrative. I'd like to give it to you. Again, they're quotes. "The number of vaccinated infants at our Noorderburen"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The decrease is partly caused by antivaxers." Again, it's a quote. "According to them, vaccinations suppress the immunity of newborn telgen" "we would not use that word "with among other things behavioral problems, asthma et cetera as a result. The injected fluids would encourage autism. Moreover, this anti-vaccination movement has not yet reached Belgian crèches." According to the spokesperson in that newspaper. Pierre Van Damme, a vaccination expert from the University of Antwerp, advises that when the vaccination rate for measles, as in the Netherlands, is below the minimum level of protection, you should initially make vaccination in younger children temporarily compulsory. Mr. Chairman. The conviction of many is that more information, information and a good conversation can still be achieved. We should definitely continue to do so. But we must also work to eliminate, for example, incorrect narratives, such as the belief that certain vaccinations encourage autism. According to Van Damme in the same interview, that's a story that's already 20 years old. The doctor who wrote it at the time lost his license and the article was withdrawn, according to Van Damme. Mr President, I have two more paragraphs. Sorry, I'm running out of time. You don't convince people who want to continue to believe in these narratives anymore. If I remember correctly, the Vermeij Committee also said something in that direction. A proactive attitude may be demanded from the government. My group therefore believes that too little has actually been done in recent years. Whether the action plan will lead to better results, we have to wait and see, but I take the Secretary of State's intentions positively. However, I would also like to take a first step by encouraging parents and daycare centres who want to promote that vaccination is the standard for protecting our children, by facilitating legislation, with the secondary effect that the proposal is expected to have a positive but limited impact on children's health. Mr. Chairman. I await the answers to the questions I have asked the initiators, and then we in our group will make the final weighing-up in the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u640	Thank you, Mrs De Bruijn-Wezeman. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u641	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can start this time by thanking the reporting specialists, because they have ensured that I can immediately follow up on Mr Van Strien's challenge and look up what he has indeed said about covid. I am not going to read the whole piece, but it is clear that I do not think that Mr Van Strien was fully aware of the implications of this. This is what he's asking for. I quote from the unadjusted report, by the way. "My question is therefore not so much to the initiators, but above all to the Minister and the Secretary of State: in the interest of the feasibility of this bill, can they indicate that covid vaccinations will not be included in the National vaccination programme for children." I conclude from this that this was not known at all by the PVV Group. So I think it is quite understandable that Mr Van Strien then indicated here that he had to recreate his mind, because this was apparently a new fact for him. It wasn't just for him. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say something about an issue that has been raised a number of times, namely the situation in the Bible. Thank you for all the answers from the authors and from the Minister and the Secretary of State. We talked about caring for children. But also the people in the Biblebelt have the usual care for their children, even if they decide not to inoculate them. I found the example from Barneveld very appealing, but also a bit understandable. I remember that when I was young, we were dealing with this terrible polio epidemic. A preacher said, following a text: "He who is in the hiding place of the Most High will stay overnight in the shadow of the Almighty One." His colleague in Leiden must, of course, address Mr Van Meenen; that was a Leiester......................................................................................................................................................................................... That weighting was allowed to take place in such a way. That is precisely the strength of our society. I appreciate the fact that there have been a number of other issues. I look at my time; I don't have much left. I have one more question for the Secretary of State. He indicated in the facts and figures that there is indeed a small dip in it. Is this also a well-known fact that 8% more children were born in corona time? This can therefore have consequences for the numbers that are now printed in the data of the RIVM, or any other body. Mr. Chairman. I myself had the impression that this evening's change was particularly taking place when we all found out that covid is indeed part of the National vaccination programme, and that this has profound consequences for both the staff and children in daycare centres and so on. I even wonder if the proposers had seen those implications in advance. That may mean that we should look at this law in a very different way. Then it might be, if there is no law, that nurseries now have the opportunity to say: a BMR vaccination is mandatory. We have argued all day that this law is not really necessary, because there are opportunities left. My question to the Minister and to the Secretary of State, perhaps the author knows it is: is it true that a daycare center as a private institution, now that there is nothing, can also demand targeted vaccinations? Then it would mean that what we have argued today can just happen, but that at the time this law would actually be accepted we will have to deal with all the vaccinations that are included in the National Vaccination Programme. I think that we could indeed have a huge social debate, which would benefit no one. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u642	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, Mrs Vos has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u643	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had an intense debate. What we find at the debate institute where I work for the rest of the week is that a debate has made sense if you can change your mind and convince someone else. I have the impression that this has happened here today. But we will know that in a few weeks' time, in the votes. The question I asked is: would I have chosen another daycare facility if this law had been there? Probably did then. That would have been an emotional choice. With the knowledge of today, I wouldn't have made it. Then I would have missed a very nice, independent, small nursery, and lots of nice anthroposophical songs, besides all the Christian songs that I of course just give; I say that to Mr Schalk. That choice had not led to more safety for small Fox, because you get more safety through the National Vaccination Programme. RIVM research has clearly shown that. I find the appeal to my emotions as a parent a little problematic. I really do, especially after I have heard this debate. The law is unlikely to lead to greater safety at the children's centers. That's what the national vaccination program does. The law should reassure parents in their choice, but will not be able to do so, because there is no supervision regulated in the law. If it is true that children's centers are going to hold on to this, they must keep track of all vaccinations, including the corona vaccinations of the staff. Then it depends on the security of those childcare centres whether you can have security as a parent. Since there is no supervision provided for in this law that is really a bit of the problem with the quality of this law you can't actually say that the law offers parents real freedom of choice and real security. The legislative proposal increases the burden on childcare centres. There are a lot of rules. Also read the columns of Rosanne Hertzberger in NRC. They are also rules on health, hygiene, safety and different types of safety. Those rules are there for a reason. Mr Van Meenen got over that very easily when he said that there could be some rules to give this bill a little space. The law does not require anything, but it will lead to questions for childcare centres that do not want to pursue a refusal policy and simply want to continue to rely on the government and the vaccination rate. They must then opt for a refusal policy or not. That's the nudgen, in bad Dutch, that I was talking about. So not choosing is just not an option. The law intervenes in the market and aims to increase demand for certain child centres. This is another old-fashioned belief in market forces. I haven't heard that in a long time. According to PvdA, the State has the greatest role in this. What I do not approve of the answer is that the initiators do not take seriously the concerns of the childcare organisations. They also threatened for a moment that, if we do not adopt this law, there will be a vaccination obligation. In my opinion, the rulers have rejected this: it is not just going to happen. The proposers hope that more people will vaccinate. I hope so, too. We really agree on that. They express the expectation that this will happen as a result of such a conversation, but we also just talked about the other side. We have seen in the very intense discussion over the last two years that a duty or an indirect duty is what forces some people into their beliefs. We saw that with the corona pass. Maybe you shouldn't want that at all. The PvdA would like everyone to be convinced of the usefulness and meaning of vaccinations and participate in the National vaccination programme, but we are not convinced that this bill is going to contribute to this and at all to public health. I understand very well the emotion that the author of this law had when it played. I have these emotions too, but with emotions and assumptions about the behaviour of people and childcare centres, you still don't have a good law or more safety for children. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u644	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I shall now suspend the sitting for 20 minutes, at the request of the authors, until 10.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u645	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u646	Mr President, one moment. I just need to get my petals in order. Excuse me. Mr. Chairman. Let me start in random order. Let me first thank the cabinet for its neutral judgment. I understand by now that giving a neutral opinion is the new way of looking at own-initiative laws. That seems fair to me, because that is an initiative of the cabinet. It is, of course, good to have the debate followed by the comments made by the members of the government. I shall confine myself to a few key points which I have seen in the debate. I shall start with a comment from the Christian Union, saying that in many situations a one size fits all solution is not working. I fully agree with the Christian Union. But I am arguing that this is a "one size fits all" solution. This is customization. This is precisely a possibility that you offer to holders of children's centers to deliver customized products, depending on the local situation et cetera. That's what I wanted to say. Mr. Chairman. Then the situation around covid. There are rather firm statements about this, let me put it this way, whether positions taken from the cabinet, such as: it is there and it does not go away et cetera. My group and we, as initiators, experience this differently. We believe that it is still unknown how corona will become part of the national vaccination programme and whether it will become a permanent part of the national vaccination programme. There's a lot of insecure things. There is no doubt that much remains to be determined. There's no advice from the Health Council yet. The vaccine has very different characteristics than dktp and bmr. It's not a sterile vaccine. It's a lot more like the flu shot. Mr Van der Voort also said a few words about this. It has now been added to the national vaccination campaign for reasons of transparency and in case there is a recurring character for the whole population. So it will be much more like a flu-like vaccination than a combination, like dktp and bmr. Anyway, until then, it's in there. I understand. I also understand, in particular, the concerns about staff. Our law, of course, focuses primarily on the youngest children. They're together over there. That's where the vulnerable group is. Children under 14 months of age are at increased risk if we don't do something. But the staff is a different story. We did not actually talk about staff at all in the first period of the debate. That is what we are talking about now as a result of the fact that the covid rules would also apply to them. Then the conclusion is quite quickly drawn here that this will lead to redundancies and so on. That is by no means the intention. That was not the intention of us as legislators. We are not changing labour law here. We want proper policies. This will certainly have to be done by the holders of the children's centres. They won't be able to just fire people. You can't do that anyway. What we say in the law is that you could pursue that policy when accepting or allowing people. That is an option, but that is quite different from the fact that you would now be forcing people working in child care into any vaccination. We're not gonna do that. In that sense, therefore, I do not see any implicit covidd cheek or urge, if you would see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u647	I think Mrs. Prince just got up a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u648	I had a question about that anyway. How does the reliability of such a childcare organisation work when they state on their site that they will only be there for vaccinated children? At that time the parents assume that this is also the case for the employees, because that is then the use. How do you see that in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u649	One just has to be honest about what it's like in child care. Maybe everyone's been vaccinated. Then you can use that as a policy from that moment on. If that is not the case, I also assume that the parents will understand that the staff are being treated properly. That decent policy is our eyes that you're asking that question to new people you're hiring, just like you do to children. Nor are we in favour of removing children between 14 months and 4 years from the shelter. I don't think anyone would want that either. The point is, you're gonna have a policy like this in the long run. At the same time, we will see the development of corona policy. Will that corona policy in the long term really be part of that national vaccination programme? We'll see about that. Even so, we do not change labour law here in this law and we say here as part of this legal process that we do not see any dismissals. It's just that people are being treated very decently. There can be no way that for that reason you could fire people, anyone, even if you interpreted the law without that covid playing a part in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u650	This means, in fact, that you say that even fewer childcare facilities can actually say that they are only there for vaccinated children. You can only do this if you also do this integrally for your employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u651	Yeah, but with the kids, there's gonna be a moment a lot faster. Children are relatively short time at daycare. So the situation in which it is happening will be much quicker. Of course, the risk of contagion lies much more with the children. They'll hand it over much sooner than adults.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u652	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u653	It could be. I'm not sure. I'll leave that to the experts. I note, however, that this law could have even less impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u654	It's possible. I can't make that inference. I'm going to explain again why I think there are all kinds of positive effects. No further research has been carried out into the extent to which these are affected. However, if a particular childcare sector does opt for this policy, but is not yet ready, it is of course less effective. But it's also about the long-term effects. Still, I say that it may be less effective, but there is a positive effect anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u655	I understand very well that Mr Van Meenen says: we did not mean it that way. I get that. That's not what we're talking about. But we have a law to judge here. Of course, the intentions of the legislator play a role, including throughout the case law and so on. But essential is also what the law says. There are two key words in this law. One is "children's center" and the other is "National vaccination programme." At that children's center it is not only about the daycare until 4 years old, but also about the bso. The National vaccination programme is not only about bmr and dktp, but also about covid. So the question to the authors is: should they not find, at this point in the debate, that the two key words of this law, in the text of the law, are not too broad for what they mean in the intention of writing down?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u656	No, I would not say that, because, in the end, we are in agreement on the protection of the youngest children. There's a distance from those other kids, even legally, I say as an educational spokesperson. You can't even let those groups get mixed up. Anyway, still. The law states that the staff and the children are concerned with the acceptance and admission. That's the point. With the staff, you can only implement that policy for new staff. We're not gonna think of that right now. No, that's just what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u657	Yes, Mr Van Meenen says that education is subject to a different law. But I'm not talking about education, I'm talking about the bso.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u658	Yeah, that's right. I was concerned about the age group of children in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u659	I am talking specifically about the bso, while Mr Van Meenen says: I am actually talking about the nursery from zero to four years. I understand that, but it doesn't say that. When it comes to covid, he says they can't be fired. No, but they can't be hired anymore. In other words, does he not actually have the problem that the wordings "National vaccination programme" and "children's centre" are both too broad? He does say "no," but that's the problem we're dealing with right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u660	I don't see it that way. The protection is primarily aimed at the youngest children, because they cannot be vaccinated. I think we can agree on that. The fact that the law is in itself wider does not in itself raise any objections. The objection that I have tasted here is that there would be a form of urge or compulsion towards staff who would be forced to vaccination under penalty of dismissal. Whether it's the twelve-year-olds, the 14-year-olds or the two-year-olds, it doesn't matter, but that's exactly what the law says. The law's about adopting that doesn't refer to people you've already fired from people and they're judging on that. And that's really something else. I hope that Mr Ganzevoort agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u661	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u662	I understand that very well, but that is what Mr Van Meenen is talking about. The conclusion of this evening is that employees, let me call them candidate employees, who have not been vaccinated against covid cannot be accepted on a bso, because that is how broad the law is formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u663	Not on a bso where such a policy is pursued. That's right. Then you might as well be wondering if you'd like to work there. Suppose you deliberately won't be vaccinated, why would you necessarily want to work at a childcare facility that does have that policy? There's a huge shortage in childcare, I'm just saying, so I think they can find a place somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u664	When I first read the law, I thought: how nice, how clear, two articles, ready. But yes, there is now a jump-off of all kinds of laws and objections. One is the lack of supervision. We have now learned that the entire national vaccination programme must be kept up to date by the child centre that will make use of any rights under the law. That will be difficult, but if there is no supervision, how can the petitioner say that this gives parents certainty? I have to think very strongly about something else from the last two years: the corona app. It is also voluntary and there are very few obligations in it. It is now being kept up to date by so few people and used that it no longer offers safety. Am I right about this parallel or not at all? There's no compulsion, there's no supervision, you don't have to. It's very complicated. Is this gonna do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u665	Yes, that's a good question from Mrs. Vos. If we walk into random childcare together, for example the Lenteklokje or any other kindergarten and we would ask "do you not mind that there is no supervision here?', I think they're gonna think, "Do you know what it's about?" On the contrary, there is an enormous amount of supervision of childcare. As far as the administrative burden is concerned, I have said something about the possibility of reducing the gap. That's not exactly what I'm talking about here, but there's a lot of supervision of childcare, by the G.D.D. I am convinced that if childcare is to run this policy, the GGD will undoubtedly check whether this is being implemented. We have not explicitly regulated this in the law, but the supervision of the GGD extends to everything that is important in child care for children's health. That seems to apply here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u666	Mr Van Meenen is here in the First Chamber. When Mr Van Meenen makes assumptions like "I'm assuming that," "this will be" and "the GD will do this," we find this rather difficult. You expressly appeal to parents' emotions to make use of this right of information and the like. Then you will also have to make sure that it is maintained and that a childcare centre is sure that all employees and children over 14 months of age have been vaccinated. That is not the case and that makes it very difficult for you to say that you are going to increase parents' freedom of choice. In fact, you don't do that if you've thought so badly about how you're going to maintain this. That is the question we are asking here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u667	No obligations are imposed except for registration. That is the only obligation imposed. That is the only one that could be maintained, because I do not know what else we should maintain. We cannot maintain the question of whether or not such a policy is being pursued, because that is voluntary. I understand the underlying question. When a daycare center says that such a policy is being pursued, you have to be able to trust that it is. I suppose parents want to know that too, and they'll check it out and look for certainty. We don't need inspection for everything in this country. But again, the GGD oversees the daycare centers. That is why it does not need to be dealt with separately. The GGD will see to it, up until check that the floors aren't too slippery and I know what's going on. Fine. I trust that will also be the case here. That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u668	Why didn't you settle that right in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u669	It could have been. We didn't do it. You can say that's a reason not to vote for the law. I'd be very sorry to hear that. Ultimately, the goal is to work on children's health. We want to improve it. And parents, we want to give them an informed choice. That's the main objective. Surveillance is important. I understand that, but there is a lot of supervision of childcare. If a daycare center were to wrongly claim to pursue this policy, I think it will end very quickly. I also think it's extremely risky, because you have to imagine what happens when there's an outbreak. I wouldn't like to be in the shoes of that daycare center.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u670	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u671	I'm just thinking about that cramping corona app on my phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u672	Okay. Then it is time for Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u673	Another question that is actually about an uncertainty that Mr Van Meenen introduced, namely: we do not know whether corona remains in the National vaccination programme. There are those who say Corona won't leave. We hear that there are new variants in some countries. I'll also take a look at the Minister and the Secretary of State. It could be that we're deliberately assuming that we're not just taking this out, because we're really not out of the corona pandemic yet. In fact, the virus can just get back on its feet. I think that is why many other measures are being taken. That is the first question: what could be the basis on which it might pass? Do you have to come up with legislation for that now? The second question concerns workers who are now employed. I can imagine. I took a quick look at the law. It does say "accept" or "allow." But what about families whose one child is still inside and the second child can no longer be admitted? That's a huge problem for families, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u674	Now I've lost your first question. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u675	The first question was about the uncertainty as to whether or not corona will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u676	Yeah, exactly. Yes, I cannot, of course, give a definitive opinion on this either, but we can see that Corona in all its facets is much more like the flu than the childhood diseases. The flu injection is not part of the National Vaccination Programme. However, there is a vaccination round every year for groups at extra risk. I believe that, in the long term, Corona will no longer be part of the National Vaccination Programme. I think that the firmness with which the cabinet is now saying this, without any legal or legal basis, goes rather far. I'm going a lot less far. I expect it to be different. That is nothing more than an expectation, but I think it is a more real expectation based on what corona is and how we deal with this type of virus than the expectation that it will be everywhere for everyone and always in the National Vaccination Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u677	Mr Verkerk, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u678	In all honesty: if we have to judge a law on the expectation that another law will be changed, I find that difficult. At the moment, the corona vaccination is part of the National vaccination programme. You have indeed convinced me: it is true, no people are fired. I read it, too. But I do not think that the fact that you are putting forward your expectation as an argument is a positive one, because at the moment the reality is that covid is part of the National Vaccination Programme. We must assess the law in relation to this reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u679	I fully agree with you, but that is why I wanted to reassure the Chamber on the point that this would have serious consequences for staff. That's what we're agreed on. I responded to Mr Schalk's expectation that corona is not gone and that corona is still among us, et cetera. This then leads to the conclusion in his reasoning that it will remain part of the National vaccination programme. I put another expectation to that, which is at least as real as you look at the nature of this disease and how we deal with it. I can't say anything more about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u680	Okay, thank you. Then I have the next question. I've spoken to one child center. That told me that it only wants to have an admission policy for measles and only want to control it, and nothing else. So my honest question is: are children's centers aware that they need to check for the whole vaccination program and not just for measles?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u681	If this law becomes law, then that awareness will have to penetrate, because the law says what it says. That is, in the end, the balance that you are making here with each other, whether you accept it. The law is not intended to randomly shop in parts of the National Vaccination Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u682	Together with Mrs Vos' question, I find it really interesting to know how many children's centres still want to implement this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u683	In this respect, we have the research of the NIS on the National Vaccination Programme. In it, many child centres have indicated that they want to work with it, or already do so, but only not covered by a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u684	Mr Van der Voort, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u685	Short question. According to the initiators, is it still the case that child centres can choose outside this law to only allow children who have been vaccinated for measles or bmr?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u686	I think that's the same answer I just gave. No. You could reason: now all things are happening that are not covered by the functioning of this law. You could take that risk as a child center. But if you want to know you're covered by this law, you'll have to test the National Vaccination Programme to the full extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u687	But then it can, only then not covered by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u688	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u689	That is a very clear answer. However, I would like to put another question. We note that it is about daycare, so also about bso, and about the entire National vaccination programme. If I leave covid out now, it is also about vaccination as HPV, for example. We know that staff will very probably not be vaccinated against this, because most staff will be over 26 years old. Maybe there's just another group that does have that vaccination. I'm just taking out one disease right now. A highly contagious disease. If you're vaccinated against that, you can prevent six types of cancer, so that's quite a health gain. It is in this too, and it also has an effect on the whole policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u690	Yeah, look, this law focuses on protecting the youngest kids. That's not why this is happening. This is about a situation that can arise further in life. I'm not an expert on this, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u691	Ten years. From 10 years on, vaccination is started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u692	Yes. And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u693	It has just been said: COOVID-19 is going to go out again and then we won't have that problem anymore. I would like to point out that there are still more vaccinations in the National vaccination programme against diseases which may indeed affect the staff, which are highly contagious, so they could also apply to them. This therefore means that the law has a much wider scope than the applicant's intention. My question now is: were you aware in advance that by choosing these terms in the law these side effects would occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u694	As far as the effect of the law and the effect you really aim to do is concerned, of course, you always have to look at what is reasonable, I think. I simply cannot judge whether what you are now saying makes sense to demand in this respect. It would be interesting to find out. Maybe you can come back to that at a later stage. I can't give a conclusive answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u695	Mrs. Gerkens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u696	What amazes me so much is this. We have tried to demonstrate some of the weaknesses of this law. Let me put it this way. We are talking about legislation whose objective, namely to increase the vaccination rate, is broadly supported. But we do see a number of bears on the road in this legislation. I have never heard the author say: there is something in it, so you know what, I will take it back and I will see if I can change the text so that it is more precise. This can be done, for example, by saying: we are talking about crèches, for children up to 4 years old. Or: we are talking about bmr and not about the entire National Vaccination Programme. Why didn't you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u697	I've thought about all that. We always think about everything. But I'm not at that point right now. Here's what I'm gonna say. Mrs Gerkens is of the party that prefers to make a law whereby there is an obligation for all children to participate in the National Vaccination Programme. So I could also ask again whether all of these things are in there. Or, is that law ever gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u698	Again, of course, I have said that the law is in preparation. I checked today whether the VVD and the SP intend to submit that law after the summer. I wonder if they're gonna do that after I tell them what I've heard today about what the Cabinet wants. I don't know, but that's where some things are gonna happen. But at least that's the planning now. I also told you that this law simply has a direct objective of increasing the vaccination rate. This is not about transparency and not about freedom of choice and not about the secondary objective of perhaps convincing some people to be vaccinated in the margins. No, the objective is actually to increase the vaccination rate. That's a different law, isn't it? But that's not what I asked you. I asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u699	I understand what you asked me to do, but I asked for something in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u700	Thank you. Mr Ganzevoort has a short question, and I will really limit the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u701	Fine, but there's something stuck in the air right now, and I find that really problematic. This concerns, for example, the question of HPV and the question of whether or not the whole national vaccination programme is being discussed here. The author then says: I don't really know, I haven't thought about that. So we don't know what the meaning, or the scope, of this law is. I think that's really problematic. So please hob or calf. Is it the whole national vaccination programme, including HPV et cetera, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u702	Or perhaps the government will be able to answer that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u703	That is possible, but I think the author is about the meaning of the legal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u704	If the petitioner doesn't know the answer, I meant, but well. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u705	I can't answer that right now. HPV does not play a role in our considerations. So let me be clear about that. I wouldn't mind if it wasn't part of it. I know that if this is part of the National Vaccination Programme, in the same way as the vaccinations for young children, it will indeed be covered. That's where we're at now. We have to be clear about that. By the way, it is always a good idea to have as many people as possible vaccinated against HPV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u706	Yes, but we have a law to pass. That's what you want. Then we need to know what we're voting on. Mr Van Meenen now says: yes, HPV is included. Fine, that makes sense. I understand that Mr Van Meenen is not quite sure yet. If that were to change, it would be nice to hear it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u707	If things change, you will of course hear it before the votes. I'm not gonna wait till the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u708	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u709	I wanted to mention the following briefly, because there are questions about it all the time. What is being said about the promotion of health? I say this also in the direction of the cabinet, because there was a very cautious response to the question of whether there would be any health impact of this law. That would only be an expectation of the author. That is simply not the case. I have quoted it here before, but I will do it again anyway, because I want it to get through to the cabinet. I quote the opinion of the Council of State of 17 June 2020, which states: "All in all, the effects of the refusal by childcare centres of unincorporated children and workers on public health in the broad sense and the health of children on childcare are expected to be positive, although limited." It's not the first party to say that. I would add that I have said this before, but I would like to stress this once again: the research carried out by the Vermeij committee also points to positive health effects. Especially in the case of a full obligation, but in the case of a partial obligation, we can expect that the effect is at least greater than zero, to put it in mathematical terms. Finally, there is the practice example of Berend Botje, where more than half of the people who had initially not vaccinated their children would still do so. I just wanted to say that again. Finally, or almost finally, on the competence of the College of Human Rights. For the sake of completeness, I will quote again the letter you quoted from the College of Human Rights. I would like to ask you to listen carefully to the last sentence: "As far as Article 1.49a is concerned, and specifically the third paragraph inserted, it is intended to establish a legal exception to the prohibition of discrimination laid down in the AWGB and WGBH/CZ, the same applies as other legal exceptions to the prohibition of discrimination (as found, for example, in Article 2, second to fifth paragraphs, AWGB; Article 5, second paragraph, AWGB and Article 3 WGBH/CZ): in the case of a request for a judgment, the College will examine and assess whether the decision/conduct of the relevant employer or provider of goods or services in the specific case is actually covered by the exception to the prohibition of distinction and therefore justified." "Thereby justified," so by checking it against the law. If we include that exception in the law, then that will always lead to an award, unless it is contrary to the law. The College therefore states that a legal exception as proposed in this bill does not affect the power of the College to hear a dispute. We have just agreed on this, but I am sure that I will say it again here. The College is not competent if, for example, there is no legal grounds for non-discrimination or if a complaint is made outside the areas in which the College is legally competent. If a dispute in which the college is competent to take note of that college is referred to, the college will only check whether the admission policy of the child centre is covered by the exception to the prohibition of discrimination. Let me be clear: that exception to the prohibition of discrimination is introduced with this bill. If the child centre applies an admission policy which is covered by that exception to the ban and therefore if a children's centre complies neatly with the law, then the indirect distinction, I quote the college again, is justified. I can go on for a while, but I think it's obvious. I want closure. I welcome the commitments made by the Cabinet to work on additional information and discussions, but I also share the view, in particular, of the VVD, that there are limits to this. At some point everything has been achieved with conversations. Then it would be very, very unfortunate... The same applies to all these efforts. Again, we have to do them most of all. But let us not forget that more is needed to get the vaccination rate above the minimum, which we have been under for a number of years now. That is why doing nothing is not an option for me and for my colleague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u710	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all your input in the second term. I have a few questions that I will answer specifically and I will deal with those that you have said and which the author has just referred to. To begin with, on the side of your Chamber, Mr Van der Voort asked whether more or less children would eventually be vaccinated. I didn't say it was one or the other. I said, we just don't know that. You do not know in this policy whether the sum is that more or less children will eventually be vaccinated. That is very difficult to say, also in view of the whole discussion about vaccinations that have become a little more intense over the last two years. I am addressing both Mr Van der Voort and the proposers. Covid's just in the National vaccination program now. That's a fact. That does not mean, as Mr Van der Voort suggested, that we allow this discussion to be influenced. It's in the National vaccination program. That's what the petitioner said. That has to be taken into account. The second thing I want to say about it is that I do not share the idea that it might disappear from the national vaccination programme. The cabinet doesn't share that. It's in the National Vaccination Program now. There is no reason for us to somehow raise the expectation that we would take that out. In fact, in the context of the current discussions on corona and corona vaccinations, I do not think it is a desirable route to have that discussion. If it is in it and it is in the legal text, it will have to be taken into account. The same applies to HPV. The Secretary of State will go into that later. The legislative text is the National Vaccination Programme. There's a lot of things in there. Then Mr Van der Voort talked about firing employees. I think the author has answered that quite clearly. If I follow the reasoning of the petitioner, that means that people do not need to be fired if they are not vaccinated, but that a nursery or bso can only register under this bill if these people have found another job or have been vaccinated. Because if there are employees who have not been vaccinated, then the bso or the daycare center cannot register, if I understand correctly. Then there's no clarity for those parents. I disagree with the PVV's choice of words. That's what I wanted to say. Then I had an explicit question from the VVD. Yes, I have promised that we will get to work with the Vermeij Committee. Again. I have also indicated that there are some complications, especially as regards how to determine whether something is green, orange or red. That is the very logical idea that the committee has developed and which is very appealing to us. So you have light measures, medium-sized measures and heavy measures. Then you also come to a discussion about proportionality, which is more appropriate to the situation, depending on whether it is green, red or orange. We will inform both chambers about this shortly after the summer. The Secretary of State will come back to the action plan you mentioned and to the international comparisons. Then there are the final questions from the MPs. Mr Schalk asked whether it was true that a children's centre could now require targeted vaccination and that this bill would apply to all vaccinations. Yeah, again. That also means that if you follow all the vaccinations from the National Vaccination Programme, you can be covered by that registration, but then you must also have your employees fully vaccinated. Under the current law you can still have another access policy, for example only on measles, but you will not be able to enter that register. But that can be done, of course, because the current law simply continues to exist. Mr Van der Voort also asked about this. So you don't end up in the national register.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u712	That last point is very clear, but on that other point I have a clarification question. Mr Van Meenen has just said that the staff who have not yet been vaccinated may remain ordinary, but I understand from the Minister that it means that if there are vaccinated staff in a daycare center that does embrace this law or uses it, that daycare center cannot register.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u713	Yeah, that's how I interpret the law. It cannot be that you enter the register if you have an unvaccinated employee while you have a refusal policy, because the register is there to show parents that you have a fully vaccinated nursery or bso. If one of your employees is not vaccinated according to the National vaccination programme, you do not have it and therefore you should not be entered in the register.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u714	The same applies to the children who are already there and have not been vaccinated and are not sent away. In other words, the law could only have effect for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u715	Yes. I suspect this is the consequence. I am not the author, but I suspect this is the consequence. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u716	I see the petitioner shaking no, but that doesn't help much, I guess. Anyway, this is what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u717	The initiative proposal says that you can be entered in the register if your children have been vaccinated and if your employees have been vaccinated. As long as that is not the case, you cannot be entered in the register. Otherwise, that register is not correct either, because that is precisely what I understand is that you are showing that a nursery or a bso is fully vaccinated. As long as there are children who have not been vaccinated or as long as you have employees who have not been vaccinated, you cannot be entered in the register. So you either have to let the kids go, or wait until they're old enough or let your employees go or wait for them to quit their jobs and go somewhere else or get vaccinated. I think I have answered the specific questions of your Members of Parliament. Let me now turn to the second term of the petitioners. I have just been talking about what is in the National Vaccination Programme. That's what it says. As a result of Mr Van der Voort, I talked about the impact on health. The petitioner, Van Meenen, referred to the Council of State, which says: there is health gain, but limited. That is, of course, what I referred to earlier was an opinion from the Council of State of 2019, before there was corona. The debate that we had in the first term was, of course, about the assessment that the whole vaccination debate at the moment is much more colorful than it was two years ago, which could certainly lead to a national vaccination programme including corona, and I cannot predict that people will turn against vaccination instead of more people being vaccinated. Let me make a comment about the GGD and supervision. In the supervision of the law it is a question of possible supervision by the industry. That doesn't say anything about supervision by the G.D.D. I believe that you should regulate this in the law if you want to, because supervision by the industry is again a very different kind of supervision, which also entails administrative burdens. But at the moment, the law does not say that supervision is regulated. The Secretary of State returns to HPV. In daycare centres and bso's, groups can just get mixed up. This has been discussed a few times. Not only do I know personal stays where they are, but also according to the law groups from 0 to 4 can simply mix with groups from 5 to 12. So these kids run into each other. Finally, I very much agree with the authors that there is, of course, a limit to communication. That's what we've seen in all those years before corona. That is also why the Secretary of State and I are so keen to ensure that we use the instruments we have more heavily. Partly in the light of the Vermeij Committee, we want to see how we can increase the vaccination rate, because that is ultimately the goal we are facing here. Why are parents worried? Why was I worried myself when I was older? Why were you all worried? 'Cause that vaccination rate needs to go up. That's what we need to do. That's what we're standing here for, and that's what we, now the corona are more into... I almost wanted to say "in calmer waters." Let's hope so. Now that corona has come into a more regular current, there is also the capacity to work hard on it. That is what we are going to do with all our energy to ensure that the vaccination rate goes up and that parents' concerns go down and that the support for the National Vaccination Programme is increased in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u718	Thank you to the Minister for that reply. I am still running into a loose thread again, namely whether or not the register can be used, or whether a nursery can be registered at the moment if not all children and staff comply with the vaccination. I see the Minister is very clear about that. I see non-verbal that the petitioner feels very differently about this. That means that as a Member of Parliament, I do not really know what the implications are on that point. So I'm left with some extra confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u719	As I understand the initiative proposal, all afternoon long and in preparation, the aim of the petitioner is to ensure transparency, transparency about whether a daycare centre or a bso provides a safe environment with vaccinated children, except, of course, children up to 14 months of age, because they have not yet been vaccinated, at least not against measles, mumps and red dog. This means that you can only register if all children are vaccinated according to the National Vaccination Programme. That's why it's such a huge administrative burden for the daycare centers, because you need to get the dktp four times, and HPV from your tenth. By the way, many parents do not want to tell that they have their daughters vaccinated against HPV; that is another point. But these daycare centres and BSOs must therefore be kept up to date, and the parents must therefore tell us what vaccination was given at what age. Only if you meet that, you have 100% vaccination, so to speak. Then you can sign up. That is how I have read this law in all its preparation, and that is how we have responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u720	Mr President, I understand the Minister's reasoning, but I would just like to say to you that I do not know what we are going to vote on next week when it comes to these implications. Well, that makes the trade-off a little more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u721	I understand. Perhaps this is a good time to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u722	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to keep it as short as possible with a number of remaining questions. The SGP asked the question whether the figures I mentioned in relation to that dip in the vaccination rate included the fact that more children were born. It's always about relative numbers. In that sense, it's always taken. But those children were especially born in the first half of 2021. In short, it should start to play right now that they're going to get a first shot. In fact, we still have to wait a little bit for the effect. Mr Verkerk asked: can you promise that your commitment to successful policies, as in the examples, will also be secured in the approach? I didn't mention those examples for nothing. So I am certainly looking at these kinds of examples to see how we can ensure that further. We are also looking at what policies at national level are effective in ultimately making a difference at local level, because that is the ratio we are in. I also take this into account in the review I mentioned earlier. Mrs De Bruijn asked specifically about the communication. Yeah, I'll get back to you on that. I can assure you that for the sake of clarity. Then the future of covid vaccination. Of course, that's what it's been about several times. I agree with Mr van der Voort that this is a discussion that will have to be resolved further. "As is" is part of the National vaccination programme. There was another question about what uncertainty that arose, namely whether HPV is part of the RVP. Yeah, it's part of it. But there's a whole line. I would, of course, almost save you from reading it all. But we've already had dktp, bmr, meningococcal, HPV and pneumococcal. The National Vaccination Programme is a comprehensive package. This is all part of the wording contained in this draft legislation. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u723	Thank you. I'll see if there's any more interruptions in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u724	One brief question to the Secretary of State. I just took a look at the National vaccination program. I think it has already stopped by, but the Health Council has not yet advised on the inclusion of covid vaccination in the National vaccination programme. Do you have any idea when that advice might come?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u725	We need to take two things apart here. Of course, the Health Council has often advised on covid vaccination, for example on whether or not children should receive the shot, etc. This has been advised on several occasions. Another question is: how do you guarantee the best legal but also practical way, the future of covid vaccinations? I have indicated that the direction of thought is next. The RVP, precisely because of its proven success, especially for small children, may be a good basis for building on it. I say this with some restraint, because I also understand what Mr Van Meenen said about it. But it is true that this debate must be resolved further. The Health Council has a different type of role in that, advising, than simply answering the question: is it a vaccine that we need to apply, at what time and for what age group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u726	That's right. So I am also referring very specifically to the question of what I have just Googled on all the issues we are talking about in the national vaccination programme, up to and including the HPV vaccination. There is an opinion on it from the Health Council, very explicit on the issues that have been taken into account. I'm missing an opinion on the covid vaccine in that list. The latter is allowed in 2020 or 2021, I believe. This is, of course, separate from what has been recommended in the context of the fight against the pandemic. But I miss the Health Council's advice on the list of vaccinations to be included in the National Vaccination Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u727	This is actually a repeat of what I have already indicated. However, I distinguish two parts. What's the best place to land it? This discussion will have to be settled in the coming period. But the Health Council has very often advised on covid. And rightly so, I'd like to say. So these two things are really different from each other. The direction of thought that the RVP could be a good landing point is indeed there. We will continue to talk about how that will eventually land.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u728	That puts you at the end of your speech, Secretary of State? Thank you. Let me look at Mr Ganzevoort. There's one more question that's still alive at the Chamber. Did I get that correctly? If so, is that perhaps another reason for one of those present behind the table to use this moment to try to answer that question from the Chamber? Do you still want to articulate the question, Mr. Ganzevoort? If not, I will close the debate. Perhaps you'd like to give me another letter for the votes? They will not take place until 10 May, possibly with an attempt to answer this question which is obviously important to the Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u729	The question is: if we were to adopt this law, would registration in the registers be de facto possible only when all this has been implemented, as the Minister says? Or is that possible once the law has been passed, as the proposers may mean or suggest? If that is not clear, the implementation of the law is very unclear for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u730	I see Mr Van Meenen making a start. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u731	There will be a transition. Our thesis is: you can register if you pursue a policy that aims to do so. That's the point. Then you're gonna get on with that. Then there will always be those situations that we have just established with each other, for example, most pronounced among staff, who are asking for a transition. If the Minister's interpretation were correct, but that is not so, then it would be that, if the youngest worker had just started, we would be able to have these rules implemented in about 40 years' time at a daycare center. By the way, I do not think that registration is the most important part of the law. The most important thing I think is that the policy is being implemented, because it protects children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u732	It is clear that the petitioner is referring to this, but where is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u733	I don't have that ready here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u734	Would you like to send a letter on that before the votes on 10 May? I'm just making a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u735	I'll consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u736	Supporting helps us; preferably a concrete foundation from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u737	You want to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u738	That makes it complicated, because the Minister has said exactly the opposite. We will probably receive a letter from Mr Van Meenen and then we will probably ask the Minister for a letter. Maybe we can try to work that out after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u739	I can't say anything about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u740	The minister was quite explicit. Maybe she can say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u741	I look at the Minister: does she wish to speak? If so, I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u742	I can repeat it again. When you are allowed to be entered in the register if you have a policy to proceed to complete vaccination, that register of course is not going to give the desired assurance, because a policy is a policy. That doesn't mean you have 100% vaccination. The applicants have written that they want the register to indicate which childcare centres carry out 100% vaccination. That is not a policy, but the actual implementation of the vaccinations. The law goes in the moment you accept it. If you have 100% vaccination of your employees and children as a childcare center, you can enter the register. If you have a policy that ensures that you get there at some point, you cannot enter the register, otherwise the register has no value at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u743	I am also looking at Mr Ganzevoort, but I do not think there is much point in getting a letter on this, because if the policy were to be, we would have created Mrs Vos' false safety completely. If it is to be reality, then it can indeed, as Mr Van Meenen says, last for many years. I therefore ask Mr Ganzevoort whether it is still necessary to receive that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u744	It's a complicated conversation like this. What I think is necessary is for us to have a law that is clear about what we accept or not. Actually, that's what I'm waiting for. If we do not seem to have that clarity and if the Minister, as our advisor, interprets it quite differently than the author, I do have a problem with this legal text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u745	We have a very long day behind us, in which we have spoken much. I have a question. I must also say to my colleague, Mr Verkerk, that this day has also resulted in us having a little debate, but that we have come out better. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u746	Mr. Van Pareren, would you like to ask your question about the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u747	That question is: are the proposers planning to make some changes to their own initiative proposal today, so that there could possibly be more support for it in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u748	I would almost like to ask Mr Van Pareren what he intends to do. The desired direction of the various insertions is quite different. "You cannot have your cake and eat it too." I note from some of the honourable Members that every point is repeated: we need clarity in order to be able to form a judgment. While my gut tells me that this judgment has actually been dropped. In that sense, it's not very inviting. But I'll consider it. I will contact each of you about what you would like to see clarified. You may tell me that now, but it is not clear to me what your clarification should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u749	It's not specifically about my clarification. However, I hear so many different, but often similar, opinions today that this might give you some inspiration to say: I am going to look at this in our own initiative proposal and I might come up with a modified version. That's what I mean more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u750	Thank you for that suggestion. I'll consider it. I always consider everything: consider everything and preserve the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u751	It's very nice that the initiators want to consider everything. I have just read the explanatory memorandum. Article 1 states that children's centres will be able to choose between a policy in which only vaccinated children are allowed and a policy in which there will be room for the admission of one or a few children who have not been vaccinated. If I read this as I interpret it now, or interpret it as I read it, this would mean that you are clear about the children. It is only about policy and not about the current situation. When it comes to the employees, the explanation leaves it open. As far as we are concerned, it would be important for you to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u752	Thank you very much for your clarification. That's what I said. Let me put it this way: what we don't want is to get fired, to get kids kicked out and so on. The policy is focused on it. That must also be visible, of course. The same applies to the staff. I think I made that clear too. We're not gonna fire people, but we're gonna pursue a policy that's aimed at just hiring people. That might save me a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u753	I would like to thank you very much for this clarification. It's very clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u754	I didn't have a hundred percent sharp at this late hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u755	But I also heard Mr Van Meenen say between the nose and the lips that it must be shown that the policy is being implemented. Then how are we going to prove that it's being carried out? I can, of course, say that I am aiming for and that I have the policy, while I still have people or children who have not been vaccinated. Meanwhile, parents bring...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u756	There the holder of the children's center has a great interest in demonstrating this. I'll leave that to the holder. I hope I won't have to write another letter about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u757	You say: I leave that to the holder. But what did...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u758	The holder has the choice to conduct the policy or not. That's actually the essence of the law. If he chooses to do so, then he will also have to show that this is happening. It is not up to the legislator to prescribe exactly how this should be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u759	The law therefore provides for a register to be set up containing daycare centres which have said that they will pursue a policy. If I really want to know as a parent whether that policy is being properly implemented, then I have to ask the daycare center.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u760	I think that's best. You don't have to ask me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u761	That seems a little random.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u762	This late in the evening, as far as I am concerned, the confusion is only getting worse. So you get into a register because you run a policy. That policy does not have to be in the right relationship with the reality of that childcare centre. So how is it with the reliability of your law on the one hand and what they say on the other? They run a policy, but yes... This can't be happening, can it? You want to be sure that this is actually the case, don't you? A policy is an intention. A policy is not the reality. You want reality to be visible when someone's in a register. That's how you make something unreliable in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u763	No, this is the law. We've just hesitated what exactly the law is. It's clear what the law is. This is the law. Then the choice of parents is: do I want to put my child on a daycare center that makes that policy visible and thus promotes that both children and future staff have been vaccinated in the National Vaccination Programme, or do I not want to? That's the choice that parents have to make. That's exactly what you need to show that that's happening. I can't change the law either. I think that's clear as glass. If Mrs Prins expects the policy to be clear only if you have 100% vaccinated, then we could have left our work. That's what I just said. Then we stand here defending something that has not been realized for some daycare centres in decades, because there is just a young person there who refuses to be vaccinated and cannot be fired. So it's not like that. The criterion is policy. That's the law. I think that's crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u764	That's the law as you state it. It seems crystal clear to me that this means that in fact no citizen knows for sure if that law is passed, or what a child care policy has is the real reality and whether or not there are just vaccinated children and vaccinated employees. So we are already calling for impurity at the beginning of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u765	No, what's clear is that the daycare center runs that policy. That's what's clear. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u766	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u767	One last question. What do you think a parent needs more, a policy or a factual situation in a child care system when it comes to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u768	The actual situation can change all the time. There's no way of getting up to speed on that. Let me rephrase. What does Mrs Prins think a parent needs more, a daycare center that pursues a policy that ultimately has almost 100% of the children vaccinated, and so does the staff or a daycare center that does not? I'll tell you what, I know what I'll choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u769	I was asked a question now, which is why I take the liberty of answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u770	A brief answer, then. One or two?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u771	My answer is: I am looking for a daycare center where my child is cared for with love and care. Then I assume that in the meantime there are all kinds of activities that lead to a higher vaccination rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u772	I can't resist that. I do say that the implementation of such a policy on vaccination does not stand in the way, fortunately, but rather that children are cared for with love and attention. By the way, we still haven't regulated that in the law. Maybe we should. I will think about bringing an initiative law to this Chamber on this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u773	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-19-eerstekamer-6.u774	I'm here to deal with the bill. I propose to vote on the initiative proposal after the May part-session on 10 May. This brings us to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the initiators, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the State Secretary for Health, Welfare and Sport and the staff who made this meeting possible. I'll wish you home.
