ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of the debate by the Chamber following the declaration of government. I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me make a comment before I begin my speech. It is always a form of courtesy to welcome a new government. However, three of the four ministers sitting behind the government table have already indicated, before the elections, that among other things, the PVV should be excluded from the coalition negotiations. Ministers undermine democracy and put 1 million voters in the corner. You'll understand that doesn't make the PVV so hot. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin my speech. They're back. Back from never leaving. A motion of censure on your pants: who cares? Just be a little missionary, lie a little bit and cheat and shut out, and before you know it, you'll be comfortable in the Tower again. A function elsewhere was more for the twelve directors who had collapsed during the previous ride, had fallen by the basket or just got a nice job elsewhere. There were even opportunists who accepted smooth positions in the area of their ministership. At such a time, there seems to be no integrity rules and self-interest prevails. That's how you see it: they obviously don't do it for someone else. Those who did come to terms with her conscience and then spoke the truth, were exonerated. Mr. Chairman. Now you'd think: maybe the new team is a little fresher. But how fresh is it if you just make someone minister who previously as Secretary of State committed serious crimes by asylum seekers, covered up in a report, or someone who waved the scepter over the army and blundered a "function elsewhere" note and threatened to declare the Republic of Amsterdam if the PVV had too much influence on the government? You will only be sent as a military officer under such a confused minister on a dangerous mission. One has holes in his memories and another reports with holes in his passport at the polling station, which then receives the important file Wonen. Chances are this minister's place under the sun will remain music for the future, at least if you're not a lucky seeker. Of these, tens of thousands are eager to vacate our welfare state, to involve our homes with priority and then to terrorize our villages and cities. All this is facilitated and promoted not only by the asylum industry and the media, but also by the new Secretary of State Van der Burg. He indicated earlier: the more asylum seekers, the better. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the cabinet supports this statement. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands had a tradition of strong finance ministers, regardless of the colour of the party. But with the D66 wokewappies, traditions are an abomination. Under the rainbow, it's gonna shove common sense. If your gender becomes more important than your professional knowledge, the second most important ministerial post can just be placed with someone who, against better knowledge, has previously sat around the table with the Taliban, has warned the STUDY, has little with the Public Administration Act, tends to muzzle MPs, but is female. Well, that's what I'm talking about. This minister talks with the Taliban about women's rights, but transforms into a banner carrier of Islam, complete with veil, as soon as an ayatollah appears. So you see: under pressure everything becomes liquid. The VVD also leaves its traditions. This party, which first proudly called itself the party of law and order, did not jonaste the convicted terrorist Soumaya Sahla out of the country. Now it may be that they were too busy with the Justice Department prosecuting Wilders, who she would be walking in the footsteps. The VVD gave Soumaya Sahla the VVD membership and promoted her as a national security advisor, a member of the Hofstadgroep, a member of the VVD. A convict for preparing a terrorist attack and illegal possession of weapons became an advisor to national security. The Hofstad group was after Theo van Gogh on the hunt for more victims. Soumaya Sahla and her teammates drove around with, among other things, a loaded automatic weapon. They also found Wilders getting in the way. The appointment of Soumaya Sahla within the VVD was a mesjogge. Imagine the American president getting an advisor from Tora Bora's caves. But fair is fair, there is no denying that Soumaya Sahla does have practical experience. Mr. Chairman. Tough language isn't the VVD weird. ISIS women should stay in the sandbox and be tried there. The current Minister of Justice tweeted about IS women, I quote: "Good. Consciously chose to travel to IS area. They may still pose a major threat to the Netherlands. We do not want them back here and as far as we are concerned they have lost the right to Dutch citizenship. Judge there." To my amazement, this minister still collected five IS women from Syria during the honeymoon of the cabinet. One of these jihadbrides would also be Nawal H., a former member of the "Hofstadgroep" (Hofstadgroep). How many more jihad brides is this cabinet gonna pick up? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. While Rutte himself once had strong criticism of a PvdA executive with a dual nationality, he now puts forward the Minister of Justice and Security himself, who is subject to Turkish law. She indicated that she fled Turkey 40 years ago from the military dictatorship. It is incomprehensible that she does not escape the long arm of the dictator Erdogan by giving up her Turkish nationality. You may wonder how she is going to enforce law and security under the Turkish sphere of influence here. But yes, it's all about good intentions and intentions. Just like the coalition chord: nice and vague, full of intentions and without concrete goals and foundations. Yes, because you should not be able to be paid for, when, for example, teachers, people in care, farmers, SMEs have to be held accountable in full detail and paid mercilessly if a tick is not in order. If a dubious, opaque calculation model spits out the politically desired data, you may just have to close your tent. For example, the middle class is increasingly debilitated by disproportionate and dazzling corona measures. This cabinet lets the catering industry breathe economically through a straw until it is exhausted and collapses. This will also have a major impact on the subcontractors. The only ones that get better are the big guys like Amazon. Mr. Chairman. Farmers are being chased off the land with the nitrogen scourge, where they have often lived and worked for many generations, while nitrogen emissions have been reduced by 60%. The fact that this hardworking sector is performing to score an agricultural export record for the sixth time in a row does not seem to interest. In 2021, the Netherlands sold 104 billion in agricultural products abroad. The Dutch economy earned an estimated 46 billion from this agricultural export. According to hocuspocu policy, they would produce too much nitrogen, so they would have to turn in their nitrogen so that others could produce that nitrogen again. Are you still following, Mr. Chairman? Farmers have to make way for housing, among other things. Of course everyone wants a house, but as long as the borders are wide open, it's fighting the beers. Why should the successful agricultural sector give way to tens of thousands of lucky seekers from Verweggistan, whose vast majority does not make an economic contribution and who cost the Dutch taxpayer more than 16 billion a year? The cost of a quarter century migration is estimated at 400 billion. This is about equal to almost 60 years of Groningen gas extraction, the yield of which has actually been flushed down the well. As a result: 10,000 Groningers are bivaging in a wild house and the society is suffering from multi-culter terror. Mr. Chairman. With Rutte we drive from crisis to crisis. The housing crisis, the nitrogen crisis, the migration crisis and the climate crisis are draining the citizens' wallet. While no less than 60 billion goes to blurry investment funds for self-created climate and nitrogen problems, there is no money for burden relief. Worse still, purchasing power falls for everyone through the ice. The Nibud calculated an average income drop of €40 per month, based on an inflation rate of 3%, which is far too low. This government, which itself is the biggest driver of inflation, continues mercilessly to push up the energy bill. The end of the large green graws is not yet in sight. So far, the SDE+ has cost the modal family €1,250, but there is still a maximum of €5,400 in future commitments ahead. On top of this there is an SDE++ tax in the planning of about €630 per year per household. On top of that, the annual network costs per household increase from €440 to €600. Too much is being grabbed so much that 680 million has been transferred from the SDE pot to the general funds to finance the state-wide problem in the corona crisis. In the meantime, more than half a million households live in energy poverty. The thumb screws are turned even further. Rising energy costs go hand in hand with rising production costs, which continue to work in the price development of all goods and services. Combined with Ruttes Brussels friends' running money presses, the purchasing power runs even further. This, while the coalition agreement reads, I quote: 'In addition, we are reducing the burden of 3 billion, especially for low and middle incomes, workers and families. In doing so, we aim to ensure a balanced and on average positive purchasing power for all over the cabinet period." Is this merely an attempt or is something really going to happen about this screaming inflation, driven by this cabinet? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Increasing energy costs is mainly an attack on the weak. The printing of euros is mainly an attack on savers and pensioners. In short, everyone is heavily screwed and especially the elderly, who are unable to move. They are only beginning to become the real scapegoat, because after their working lives they are ageing. For years, their pensions have not been indexed. They're getting blamed for a housing shortage. But they had to stay home as long as they could. And that's why all those old people's homes had to be closed down, right? And now they would stay in too big a house for too long, often fully relieved, so that they could lower and bear future burdens. If they want to move, there is no affordable smaller house available. Don't be surprised if the power box 3 will be used in the fight to drive the elderly out of the house. With the mass immigration, which drives house prices even further, this is going to end in a tragedy. This cabinet seems to be over all shame by also decoupling the AOW as the sole benefit from the minimum wage. What a deception of the VVD, which went into the elections with the statement that the AOW would do more with the minimum wage. This affects not only the AOWs but also the compulsory pension contribution for all workers. So it's double checkout for this cabinet and his comrades. Because pension funds can force the financing of the energy transition, a sector that only costs money and barely makes any money. While Shell, known for his wealthy dividend at the ABP, was thrown out. Perhaps a welcome gift for the new ABP board member Paul Rosenmöller. The request to this cabinet is not to separate the AOW from the minimum wage. In view of the previous persistence of the cabinet on this point, I shall therefore table the next motion on behalf of my group. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to decouple the AOW benefit from the minimum wage, so that the increase in the minimum wage also increases the AOW benefit to an equal extent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The chairs dance around the plush is complete. The women's quota has been achieved and Rutte can continue his mission: the transition from a free and prosperous Netherlands to a world-wide wingewest, burdened with wokterreur and handed over to international organisations that are increasingly serving, such as the United Nations, the European Union and who knows what other forces are out of sight. In short, the deterioration of our Netherlands is in full swing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. The first thing about the declaration of government has now descended, the cabinet is on its way for a few weeks and new problems have already arisen. This is a good time for us to talk about the declaration of government and the related agreement. In fact, unlike its name, the First Chamber only takes the floor in the second instance. Since April last year, the concept of "new administrative culture" has been on everyone's lips: more transparency and better separation between executive, supervisory and legislative powers. One could say that the new administrative culture is based on a culture of governance where the Council of Ministers takes decisions or proposes them, the Chambers control the government and the judiciary applies the laws. That sounds like trias politicians not so new at all, but it is the foundation of our democracy. It is good that the coalition agreement starts with the need to strengthen the democratic rule of law. This deserves the focus and commitment of both the Cabinet and the House of Representatives. The government therefore wants to strengthen the controlling and legislative role of the House of Representatives, I read further on. My group welcomes this, but we do not have a reference to the Upper House in these sentences. We do not have the concept of 'States-General'. The First Chamber and the Second Chamber jointly control the cabinet. Both chambers do this from their own roles. Can the Prime Minister explain why the First Chamber was not mentioned there? Wouldn't it be wise to also strengthen the controlling role of the First Chamber? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet begins under a difficult streak. There are fault lines in our society that are becoming increasingly sharper and clearer. I would mention a number of them: the owner of houses vis-à-vis the tenant, the residents of the Randstad, those living on the outskirts of the country, the employee with a fixed contract vis-à-vis the flex worker, the elderly vis-à-vis young people, the self-reliant people vis-à-vis those who do not manage without help. In the corona pandemic, the vaccinees were added to the anti-vaxers. The connection between these groups disappears. In Het Parool, Ruben van Zwieten, founder of a reflection centre on the Zuidas, says: "We run the risk in the city of having a self-contained elite with our own parties. Then we'll just be back at a society where you're born instead of what talents you have." This problem lives wider in the Netherlands. In addition to all these contradictions, there is another very important contradiction: the contradiction between citizens and government. Conspirators in the Netherlands hardly believe in the good intentions of politicians anymore. People in vulnerable situations often find a government facing them as an enemy. Many inhabitants of Groningen have lost the belief that the government will treat them justly. They're lost in a forest of rules and agencies. Mr. Chairman. Above the coalition agreement, the cabinet puts the motto "seeing each other." In doing so, the cabinet shows that it takes the fragmentation in our society seriously. From the Christian-social background of our party, that motto also appeals to my group. In fact, we see in the agreement a number of incentives to close fault lines in society and regain confidence in the government. We see a secretary of state who is going to deal with earthquake damage, a minister who is going to get the stagnant housing back in order and a minister who will fight poverty. Especially the latter seems strange in a rich country like the Netherlands. My group welcomes this choice of the cabinet. It is hard to realize that the government itself, with all its rules and sanctions, often pushes less self-reliant people over the edge of debt. In our country, too, there are people who can use support. It's a good thing the Cabinet has an eye for that. Restoring public confidence in government requires more than money, targeted plans and policies. The plans must be able to be realised and implemented. There's a big challenge there. The Tax Administration is the best, or the worst example of what goes wrong when an implementing authority can no longer handle the complicated legislation. Those who can defend themselves the worst are the victims of their own government. This will have to be taken into account by the government in designing laws and, for example, in the first steps to simplify the tax system. The House of Representatives and the House of First Instance will have to do the same. Let me stick to the First Chamber, as far as my group is concerned: we will take even more serious account of the feasibility of laws in our assessment. Mr. Chairman. Our questions about the feasibility of future cabinet plans are also on a different, much more practical level. Are there enough qualified people to do the job? How is the cabinet's objective achieved to increase the capacity that the police urgently need? In the current situation, there is already a shortage of people. The cabinet proposes almost free childcare. But where does the staff come from when demand rises? There are already staff cuts in construction workers, people in care, and so I can continue. My group calls on the cabinet to make timely and targeted plans for this, in order to prevent fine cabinet initiatives from dying in beauty. The cynical, distrustful citizen shouldn't be right, should he? Can the Prime Minister comment on the possibility of taking short-term action on this matter? Mr. Chairman. A repentant government listens to society. My group can understand the agreements in the government agreement on medical-ethical issues. Part of the Dutch population does not support the current standards around these themes. Then it is good to avoid the debate on this issue. We welcome the agreement in the government to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and repeat abortions. A final remark that has to do with a reliable government meeting its commitments: the municipalities are angry at the cabinet because of the 500 million discount on youth care. That has already been mentioned today. This is contrary to the agreements made by the previous cabinet with the municipalities. It makes it impossible for the municipalities to make a final multiannual budget. "The government only sees the large sums. We see the people at the window," said Jan van Zanen, the President of the VNG, in this connection. Can the Prime Minister promise that a solution will be found to the problems that have arisen for the municipalities, so that discussions on the reform agenda can continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u6	I would like to put the following question to Mr Huizinga. At the beginning of her speech, she spoke of "watching each other" as one of the elements of the head of this coalition agreement. Does she think that, when it comes to the problem of youth care, where money needs to be reformed but also where it needs to be reformed, an additional cut is appropriate to the qualification of 'awareness of one another'?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u7	That is why I ask the Prime Minister to explain how he is going to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u8	But that is based on the assumption that you, who are bound by this coalition agreement, do not agree with that passage. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u9	What is true is that it raises questions with my group. We see that the additional austerity, which is new and has not been agreed in the previous cabinet, is causing problems for the municipalities. We ask the Cabinet to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u10	That means that your question is such that, as far as your group is concerned, the cut to 500 million in structural terms, taking into account what lies ahead, the Committee of Wise Men, the whole story should be removed from the table and an alternative should be provided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u11	No, that means asking the Prime Minister to find a good solution to this, in such a way that the reform agenda can be taken up again. What that solution is? I can't wait to see what the Prime Minister's coming up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u12	But the solution to the problem you are describing is in this austerity. If the cuts remain, the problem will remain. If this austerity goes away, that problem will be solved, but we still have a complex discussion to have with each other, but with perspective on a new reformed system for youth care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u13	That's your solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u14	That is the solution of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u15	Also from the municipalities. I am very curious to see what the Prime Minister's answer will be to my question and to others in this Chamber. One thing is certain: the reform agenda will have to be taken up again, because that is in the interests of care and children.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u16	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u17	Finally, Mr. Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u18	Sure. But can I understand you in such a way that the increasing cut to 500 million simply doesn't fit in with "Seeing each other," from that Christian-social thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u19	That's what you just said. I'm just very curious to see what the cabinet's answer will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u20	I have a question for Mrs Huizinga. I would have liked to ask Mrs Bredenoord that question, but it suddenly happened very quickly. The coalition agreement says there's going to be an unwelcome declaration for foreigners. What's that gonna mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u21	I don't know what that's gonna mean. I think I read over that sentence. It doesn't mean anything to me right now. You should have asked Mrs Bredenoord, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u22	I will, but this is in the chapter on asylum seekers and foreigners. Suppose that perhaps you don't know the answer to that now is going to look very much like criminalisation of illegal residence, do you feel free to judge that differently from the other parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u23	The role of the First Chamber, Mrs Bredenoord, has gone into this in detail in her contribution to look at the laws that come to our attention. If a law were to be passed that would make illegal residence a criminal offence, my group would look very carefully and very critically at that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u24	So that may mean that, as in previous years, we are working together against those laws that cannot and are not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u25	I have very good memories of the times we've been together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. The second motto of the government statement is to look forward to the future. The coalition agreement broadly outlines a point in the future on which our country is on its way, particularly as regards climate. Forerunner in Europe, the continent that will be the first climate-neutral continent with the Green Deal. The way forward goes through climate action, energy transition and the resolution of the nitrogen problem. Moreover, we welcome the positive words the cabinet has said about Europe: in order to tackle the major problems of today, we need the EU. My group welcomes the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. The cabinet has made room for the great challenge of making our country future-proof. Although many policies will still have to crystallise, a number of measures have already been broadly announced. Mr. Chairman. In this area, it will be difficult to policy the challenge of limiting climate change to 1.5 degrees of temperature increase and to combine it with a focus on the citizens who will be affected by the major changes that are in the pipeline. The same applies to businesses, particularly SMEs. It will require a great deal of care to distribute burdens and desires proportionally. Especially when it comes to the contradiction between Randstad and the region, because who will live between windmills and solar parks, but also when it comes to the highly educated house owner, who can afford an electric car, and the tenant whose house is not even well insulated? Paying to use is not bad when you have good work, work and family close to hand. But if you are dependent on your car because of faulty ov, it can be very expensive. Can the Prime Minister say again how the government guarantees that this will be taken into account? "Seeing each other, looking forward to the future" sums up the coalition agreement well. But looking forward and looking forward at the same time requires flexibility and an agile neck. This cabinet is ambitious and meets the great challenge for the future, but it will have to bear in mind at the same time that all the different groups in our increasingly fragmented society need to be able to participate in this future. When some fail to come, they must be taken by the government. It's the only way to prevent fault lines from turning into fractures. Mr. Chairman. The biggest challenge for the new cabinet is to regain the confidence of the citizen. This can only be done by being worthy of that trust, by being reliable and, in the words of Jan van Zanen, by seeing the people at the window. As far as my group is concerned, the new cabinet is making a good start with this coalition agreement. But the actual test is in the execution. Our contribution to the success of the plans will be to carefully review the laws on subsidiarity, proportionality and feasibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. Mr Janssen will now speak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u29	Mr President, thank you. Nineteen years and six cabinets were Tiny Kox chairman of my group in this Chamber. In the meantime, he has been elected President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Europe's oldest and largest treaty organisation, aimed at promoting the rule of law, human rights and democracy. That is a great honour, but it is also a great task, especially now that tensions on our continent are dangerously high. This also requires his attention. That is why our group has asked me as a new chairman. I thank the group for its confidence. I'm happy to do that, although I'm honest with you, I won't do that for nineteen years. Mr. Chairman. It is appropriate to congratulate a new cabinet, and that is what I am doing, including the Prime Minister. However, I do do so with an honest remark, because we, as SP, and that will not be a surprise, do not think it appropriate that a ruler who resigned a year ago as the first person responsible for the unprecedented injustice done to tens of thousands of countrymen should now return to his position as head of government. But we're not talking about that, so I'm not going to talk about it today either. Mr. Chairman. Colijn, Drees and Balkenende all had a fourth cabinet and now the prime minister joins. That's politically handsome. But a small shot in front of the bow: none of those previous fourth cabinets made it to the finish line. Anyway, it's good to talk to the Prime Minister here in the First Chamber today. He's not a guest that often, and in my opinion, it's always better to talk to someone than to talk to someone. This also immediately affects the introduction of the coalition agreement. This speaks of another political culture, in which differences are bridged. We think that is a good plan and we are also happy to participate. But my group is not looking for a pat on the back of the cabinet to be called 'constructive'. After all, we are always constructive and focused on stopping evil and, where possible, on establishing good. And what's good can go through and what's bad can go away. I cannot say it more simply for my group. We do not want to make the Netherlands even crooked and more liberal, but fairer and more social. So we work together where we can to achieve that. In my group's view, this coalition agreement is a crisis and recovery agreement. Rutte IV must try to repair what was broken under the Rutte I, II and III Cabinets, such as access to law, lack of maintenance of nature, which led to a crippling nitrogen crisis, and the acute shortage of affordable rental houses. On that last point, the cabinet might want to think about an extended rent stop now that we see that the rents are already rising sharply. That would be a false start for the Minister for Housing. Mr. Chairman. It also concerns the social imbalance in incomes and, above all, wealth. The new government is not doing anything about this extreme power inequality in the Netherlands, despite the fact that inflation is killing everyone. It has been promised in the coalition's electoral programmes, but it has not been done. On the contrary, and this is when today you don't have to be left at all to see that this distortion between the possessing class and the rest is really social, economic and political disruptive. Even the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, who was just referred to, said in Buitenhof that we are overtaxing labour in the Netherlands and that we are under-taxing wealth in the Netherlands. Does the Prime Minister really want to go into history as the one who hasn't done anything about this growing social problem all this time? Mr. Chairman. So there's a lot to fix now. The Prime Minister is showing ambition. But much ambition is worth little without clear work plans and delivery dates. Mr Rosenmöller mentioned this as well. Does the Prime Minister agree? Many ambitions in the coalition agreement appeal to us, but the big question for us is how many of these words will be translated into action until the elections in 2025. That's how fast they are again. For us, what you can and do counts, not what you want. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister for a clear check-off list for the next three years: to begin with, this is the plan, that is how we are going to do it, that is when it happens and then it is done. Mr. Chairman. I ask this because the coalition agreement can roughly be divided into three quarters and a quarter. That makes me fear for three years of dinner dancer, participation tables, strength sessions, scrum walls and everything that comes with it and makes me very nervous, I say from my own experience. On the other hand, I am delighted by the decisive implementation of concrete plans. That is why I am asking for such a specific check-out list. The coalition agreement contains good and bad plans, but above all many ambitions. I told you. Again and again, the questions are: when and how? But in reading it appears that quite a few ambitions are contradictory in substance. They ask for choices, but they're not made. Short sentences sometimes also conceal major system changes and huge challenges. The Achilles heel of a lot of government thinking is the execution. I'm not saying anything new. That's what the government shows itself at times and again just really bad at. That's dangerous. Ambitions that are not realised lead to diminished confidence and even mistrust. The CDA was talking about it, and I heard the Christian Union talking about it too. In the meantime, it is essential to restore confidence, and this is promised. I have two examples. "We have the ambition to abolish the surcharges." What are people doing with such an expression and what good is it for them? "We also have the ambition to simplify the tax system." What does that say? What's that gonna do? Does the Prime Minister see the danger of untruthful ambitions? If so, what will he do about it? Mr. Chairman. For their parents, generous compensation and emotional healing is crucial to their justice, says the coalition agreement. I very much agree with that, but for this generous compensation and emotional healing, the budget should not be leading. The unprecedented injustice that parents and children have suffered must be leading. Is that how the Prime Minister sees it? The content determines and not the budget. Money that is needed must come. By this, I do not mean open-ended funding for all those consultants and consultancy firms who have put themselves on top of it, where a lot of money is flowing, but a generous and quick concession for those who have been waiting for far too long in misery and uncertainty. That's still happening. Mr. Chairman. The same goes for the Groningers. What do they buy for "a quick perspective," as stated in the coalition agreement? They want a concrete date when their problems are resolved. The degrading rows that were outside in Groningen are engraved on our retina: a disgrace to the government; a disgrace to this country. This failed implementation, not only of that arrangement, is not only detrimental to confidence in the cabinet, but also detrimental to confidence in the whole of politics. How will the Prime Minister restore the confidence of the Groningen people? Mr. Chairman. It's time for a compliment. I'm about halfway there, so I should be able to do that now. Abolishing the landlord's tax is a good plan. I would like to say that we have argued in favour of this since its introduction in 2013. That is why I would also like to take action now, because too much damage has been done to the housing market. Abolish the lending system: it's totally fine, exactly what we want. It should never have been introduced. But action for the students who have been or are going to be the victims of this debt system will be the coming period. It also means, for us, that we do not allow a large group of students to pay the bill for this political and social miscarriage for decades to come. The same applies to those students who have not been in debt to DUO, but who have indeed borrowed privately, knocked on their door at parents or others, took additional jobs and have therefore been delayed in their studies. We also have to take that group with us. For us, their trust must also be cleared up and clean up. Is the Prime Minister gonna do this? Mr. Chairman. If the cabinet really wants to regain confidence, then the decoupling of the AOW and the austerity of care are totally counterproductive. We think that's bad plans, I'll tell the Prime Minister. Do what you want with it. These signals are also widely shared by other parties today. I'm not after any motions or anything like that, but I'd like to give you that signal. If a motion is needed for that, I am happy to endorse it. Mr. Chairman. Let me highlight one example of the cuts in care that has touched me particularly, namely the cuts in care for the elderly. This means that in the future caregivers will have to take care of more people. The standard of the number of people you have to take care of is raised, but that runs counter to practice. Then you're wondering, which desk did this come up with? Older people are getting an indication later and later, the problem is getting worse, the length of stay is getting shorter and carers are already talking about "a portal to hospice." The workload is getting much higher and they need more and no fewer colleagues to give our older people a decent old age, and the attention and care they deserve. Or do I see something wrong here, I ask the Prime Minister. One more example: youth care. Youth care must be organised in such a way that young people who need help receive exactly the care they need at the right time. However, the cuts that were accompanied by the transition from youth care to the municipalities in 2015 have had a significant negative impact on the care of young people. That concern has been stuck for a long time. The young people are the victims and are damaged. That is a disaster we must stop each other now. What is the Prime Minister going to do, also financially, to give back to young people with big problems the confidence that there is a government that protects them when needed? Mr. Chairman. The point of climate. For the climate, huge funds are set up with the aim of encouraging companies to reduce emissions through subsidies. But why direct subsidies? Why isn't there a price? Has the trail of tightening permits been explored? I know from experience that this can be very effective in tackling unwanted emissions. Why should you subsidise what can be imposed or priced through permits? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that companies are primarily responsible and that it is not the intention to subsidise what can be required by a permit or what can be priced? Mr. Chairman. The national disgrace of children growing up in poverty in one of the richest countries in the world must be wiped out. This Chamber has spoken out on this and the previous government has promised us our strength. This cabinet wants to halve the number of children growing up in poverty in four years. Based on a clear, realistic, relative definition of poverty. Whatever that may be, I hope that child poverty will not be defined. And why does that take so long? We know the names and postal codes of those kids and their parents. We also know the most effective measures. The previous cabinet had deep pockets to limit economic damage. My group also wants to see measures from these same deep pockets which will put an end to child poverty, not just in four years' time, because four years in a child's life is an eternity. Mr. Chairman. The same shame of poverty also applies to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is not an island. Our continent Europe is full of dangerous tensions, just now that we are following it all, international diplomacy must work. Talking is so much better than shooting. The Netherlands, as a hub of international law, must now show its value. Mobilise our diplomats and not our military, my group says. Mr President, another positive note, almost at the end of my speech. We are pleased that the government understands that an amendment to the Treaty on European Union is necessary to counter erosion of shared values. We welcome the commitment of the Foreign Minister, last week in this Chamber, to put this need into practice in a European context. Mr President, concluding. The lack of maintenance in our society is regrettable and the need is high. A need which, by the way, could not be read out from the length of this formation. On the other hand, public confidence in government and politics is historically low. What is needed now is action and implementation. In his first declaration of government twelve years ago, this Prime Minister, Mr Thorbecke, quoted: "wait for our actions." But where Thorbecke subsequently radically reformed and improved the Dutch state system, in the opinion of my group under three Rutte Cabinets was not built up, but mainly demolished. This Rutte IV cabinet now seems to recognise with this crisis and recovery agreement that it is necessary to repair what has been broken down in the past ten years. That challenge is now on the table, I say to the Prime Minister. We read his words in the coalition agreement. We are now waiting for his actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u30	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Frentrop has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr President. It has not occurred to me before that immediately after the government declaration was published, the General Court sent an urgent letter to Parliament to warn us against the government's plans. This year, however, it did. The General Court of Auditors wrote on 13 January: "It seems to us democratically undesirable that these amounts, intended for public purposes, are (in part) excluded from the budget law of the States General." In democratically undesirable terms, that's quite a lot. Most of the time, the Court of Auditors does not judge until afterwards. Now he sends a warning in advance. In my view, it is mainly about the 35 billion that Minister Jetten has been allocated to create climate policy. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what the government intends to do with this tap on the fingers by a High College of State. His appreciation of that letter to us, I'll say. Mr. Chairman. In response to the government statement, the Forum for Democracy Group would like to raise five important points. The first is the security of supply of electricity in relation to the climate plans. The second is the liberal nature of government policy, the third is immigration policy, the fourth is the capital efficiency levy and the fifth is the so-called fight against disinformation. I'll do it all in time. First, the climate. This government wants to be Europe's climate champion, but why the hell are we wondering? So that our sea level rises less than that of the English or that of the Belgians? We don't think we should be at the forefront at all. That's not good for anything. We have to take our time. Undecided action poses great risks to our prosperity, and those risks are already beginning to become apparent. Three years ago, in March 2019, D66 came up with an election poster on which the then MP Jetten triumphantly laughed alongside the coal power station on the Hemweg, which would be closed early the following year. Well, we did. That power plant hasn't delivered electricity in two years. But last month, TenneT, the electricity network manager, said that security of supply is no longer a national issue in practice. No longer a national matter, which means that the Dutch Government, this new government, can no longer guarantee that the light remains on. Are we going to be a developing country? Minister Jetten is now responsible for that security of supply. That is why my second question is: how does the government intend to secure this security of supply through what international agreements? What guarantees can you offer? Mr. Chairman. We see senseless climate plans undermining our prosperity. At the same time, we see that financial discipline is being abandoned, and not just by all the funds that the General Court is so concerned about. Quietly, the old norm has also been abandoned that the structural deficit in the budget should be 0%. From now on, I think we're only gonna do six-and-a-half percent. That's potting in good times. This brings us to the liberal nature of the plans. The Central Planning Bureau calculated that the expenses of the government agreement are somewhere between what the SP and what the PvdA promised their voters in their election programs. But it's what VVD, D66, CDA and Christian Union do. You vote for one and get the other's policy. Mr. Chairman. The SP is no longer Marxist. The PvdA is no longer socialist. My group can no longer call the colleagues of VVD and D66 liberal after reading the government statement with the best will in the world. I believe that even the director of the Telder Foundation shares our opinion. With VVD and D66 as the largest participating parties, this cabinet should be the most liberal cabinet since the nineteenth century. So we had expected in the government statement a sketch of a retreating government that would give free citizens all the space to determine and shape their own happiness. But it says otherwise. We see only plans for the growth of the government, a government that, from a sacred faith in the feasibility of society, is going to intervene in detail in the life of the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u32	Let's talk about the last one. You give all kinds of qualifications for what we wouldn't be anymore. I am curious to see how you yourself qualify the Forum for Democracy and whether there has been a change in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u33	Conservative-liberal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u34	I wonder whether the Conservatives and Liberals can support this idea if we hear the statements made by Mr Baudet, your party chairman, from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u35	What are you wondering?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u36	I don't think it is. "Conservative" means: conservative about, for example, family values. I do not think that 'Liberal' fits in with the statements made by Mr Baudet on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u37	You need to be more specific. Otherwise, I can't answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u38	Well, let me mention, for example, the support that Mr Baudet is expressing for Russia. I do not think that is appropriate for a conservative-liberal party in the Netherlands. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u39	We can have a debate on it, but I do not remember the leader of the political group in the Lower House expressing support for Russia. I wasn't there, but I think he said we should handle our old enemy wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u40	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u41	That is not the intention of his statements. I am therefore increasingly wondering how you feel about the performance of your colleagues across the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u42	Then Mrs Bredenoord on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u43	I wondered if Mr Frentrop is familiar with the work of philosopher Isaiah Berlin, one of the founders of twentieth-century liberalism. He makes a distinction between negative and positive freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u44	No, I'm not familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u45	In fact, the core of his thinking is: very flatteringly, people think that liberalism is the right to be left alone. He literally calls it the right to rot, to rot while no one looks back at you. Social-liberalism and the far more progressive movements of liberalism emphasize freedom in connectedness. Even think of Van Houten's child law. In it, an active government intervenes to ensure that we all have more freedom. I think what you are saying is a very specific view of liberalism, a marginal movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u46	I don't agree with you. When we talk about liberalism, I think we should talk about the essence of the matter, not social-liberalism, but liberalism. The essence of liberalism is to hold people responsible for their own actions. That is not: let the government take care of everyone. Of course, the weakest in society must be protected. Liberals started that before the Socialists did. But the essence of liberalism is that people have to do it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u47	You need to take the other interrupting microphone. Otherwise, you won't be in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u48	I was just trying to show Mr. Frentrop that this is no longer at the heart of liberalism. That is a very marginal and old-fashioned idea of liberalism. Few or perhaps even no people here in this Chamber who call themselves liberal, or who have that in their party name, will say: that is liberalism. There are also recent reports on people's capacity to act. Sometimes you have to decorate your architecture in such a way that you give people a hand. I think many liberals here will recognize that. It is therefore a very specific interpretation and certainly not the core of liberalism. I, as a liberal, feel totally uncomfortable about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u49	I would like to talk to you about it again, but I appreciate the coalition agreement, and I do not see any liberalism in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u50	I agree with most of the previous speaker, but I wanted to come back to what Mrs Vos was talking about. Your party leader, political leader and great stirrer mentioned on Twitter Putin a few days ago "the leader of conservative Europe" and a "beautiful guy." You can find everything about Ukraine and whether or not we should participate in it. I also have my ideas about this, but call Putin "the leader of conservative Europe" and a "beautiful guy"... Are you also behind this description? Because it's quite a boud statement about someone who let's say doesn't meekly deal with political opponents. So I am talking about Putin, but perhaps I am also talking about your party chairman. Are you behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u51	In order to give a good answer to this, I must first outline the political renewal that we have made here in the First Chamber. It may well be known to the members of the other groups, but I do not think it is for the people behind the government table. So I would just like to explain that at the Forum for Democracy we created our own opposition in the Upper Chamber. As a result, there is a political group that is now going to raise the government statement on any subject that has been or has been reported within the Forum for Democracy. That is the Otten Group. And in this context, when we are talking about the declaration of government, Mr Otten asks me what I think of Mr Baudet's statement. He then quotes a statement about Mr Putin three years ago. Well, I don't think that's a wise statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u52	Well, at least that makes sense. I don't think it's a sensible statement either. But let's talk about your own opposition. A number of parties present here are GroenLinks, D66, VVD and also the CDA, I believe have now excluded Forum from participating in the board. And now you do not, but of course you played a major role in creating that opposition through all kinds of machinations a few years ago. I also told you on the spot that you have the political renewal...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u53	I suggest we go back to the government statement. You're out of order now, Mr. Otten. We're talking about the government statement. So please talk about the declaration of government, or else you won't get the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u54	I'm responding to what I'm told, Mr. Chairman. I am addressed here personally, so I would like to answer that personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u55	Yeah, but I'm not giving you that chance. I will give you the floor on the declaration of government, or else I will not give you the floor. So go ahead with the government statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u56	Well, I would therefore like to ask Mr Frentrop what his position is with a number of parties here in this Upper House who have expressed themselves in recent days that they do not want to cooperate with Mr Frentrop's party. I ask this question in the context of the government declaration, because we are talking about new policies for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u57	Thank you. Mr. Frentrop, very briefly, I would like to say: continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u58	I think this is about the municipal elections. I'd like to talk to you about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u59	No, we're not gonna do that. I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u60	Shouldn't I respond or respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u61	Please continue your speech on the government statement. You were doing well; go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u62	Then I shall explain to Mr Otten outside this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We were talking about liberalism and socialism. The Group of the Forum for Democracy notes that there is actually no longer any difference between the government and the left-wing part of the opposition. This situation has already been predicted by cultural historian J.W. Oerlemans. On 14 February 1990 he wrote an article with the headline "Eenpartijstaat Nederland" in NRC Handelsblad. He sketches a distraught picture of Dutch politics as a career oligarchie, a kongsi of professional directors who run the country as a company without ideologically differing from each other. Well, those were prophetic words. Professor Oerlemans was right. It's time. I heard Mr Rosenmöller say today: well, the opposition members are actually closer to the government than you might think. The six parties he calls constructive have more in common than they separate. He thought this was a good thing, a positive one, but we see it as a one-party state. At least we think it's going that way. The question of the liberal nature of the government. Then immigration. I don't want to hurt anyone, but according to the Democracy Forum, the government's main task is to guard the country's border. The government is failing in that. He doesn't do much about that, and that's worrying. If you do not want to listen to us, listen to the Financial Markets Authority. Even he's starting to worry now. I quote from a report from the AFM dated December 22nd last year, just before Christmas. "The increase in the number of Dutch people with a migration background is an important demographic change. In 2021, the proportion of residents with a migration background accounts for around 25% of the total population. This share is expected to increase further to around 36% in 2050." That's right, because the CBS's prognosis is that up to 2050 there will be 2 million more people, especially through immigration. What does the AFM say? He says that Dutch people with a non-Western migration background are on average financially vulnerable. The AOW hole is an important source of this financial vulnerability. Language barriers hinder access to financial services. These are the effects of labour migration from the past, the previous wave. This labour migration is now being advocated again. The AFM supervisor is concerned about the non-Western immigrants who now live in the Netherlands. We at the Forum for Democracy are also concerned about what their impoverishment and the predicted arrival of 2 million people means to all the Dutch who live here today. Apparently, the government does not, because the cabinet, like all its predecessors, does not present any serious plans to stop further unbridled immigration, while immigration has far-reaching consequences for our country, more radical than the ageing population. Immigration makes the welfare state unsustainable in the long term. We all know that. But yes, as the Remkes State Commission said three years ago: on important issues, such as Europe and migration, the content of the electorate is not well represented in the House of Representatives. It still is. The government parties did not do anything about that after the elections. Mr. Chairman. Poor representation of the electorate, a de facto one-party state, a Court of Auditors that warns against democratically unwanted accounting. This automatically brings me to fundamental rights, starting with the right to property.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u63	I had another question for Mr Frentrop on asylum and migration. He talked about unbridled migration. I think everyone could be worried about that. But does he also see that there are still groups that need to be given space to come to our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u64	You mean asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u65	I mean asylum seekers who, for example, are persecuted for their beliefs, who see their lives threatened and so on. Is there room for that as far as the Forum for Democracy is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u66	Yes, I think that as a wealthy and prosperous country we should always offer room for that, and I think that we have done that and we should be quite proud of that. But I also think that space should be limited. There's all kinds of unrest in all kinds of parts of the world. Anything can happen. People's rights are being trampled. There are civil wars. There's all kinds of trouble. But we can't take them all. There's gotta be a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u67	A biblical line might be that we look at justice and mercy. It is fair for people not to have the right to come here. Could we agree that we can be fully merciful to those who should simply be, because they are threatened in their lives, their faith and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u68	I know what you mean, but you can't give me a blank check. You can't say, no matter how many people knock at the door, they can all come in. It just can't be. I think we should be sensible, especially merciful, but above all wise: we can have so many people. I don't think that's a crazy policy, but you have to set a line somewhere. Don't say anyone knocking on the door can come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u69	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u70	Yes, but that means that sometimes you have to cross your border, I say to Mr Frentrop. Someone once gave a very short definition of mercy, which appealed to me very much: mercy is practiced love. If we offer that space, I think I understand the position of Forum for Democracy of not unbridled access, but space for those groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u71	I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u72	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u73	I would now like to talk about fundamental rights, starting with the right to property. Mr President, do you know the difference between a busboy and a tax collector? Both deprive citizens of money, but the tax collector does so on a legal basis. The Dutch government has taken money from over a million citizens without a legal basis. It calls this 'power efficiency levy'. According to the highest court, that's just theft. It's about theft of 4 billion a year since 2017. This can be done in the Guinness Book of Records as the biggest robbery in history. And also as the boldest, because every year we sit in this Chamber, the Forum for Democracy Group has called on the government to stop doing so. Every year that call has been ignored or dismissed. Instead, the government has forced citizens to sue for years. Finally, the judge has now ruled. I haven't even heard the government say sorry. One speaks of a setback. That's like a convicted terrorist dismissing her conviction as a show trial. Then there is the right to freedom of speech. When Mr Rutte was a leader of the opposition, he opened a free-thinking space in 2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u74	That was Wilders then! No, that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u75	Don't you want to speak through the room without a microphone? People at home need to be able to follow what we're saying here. You'll get a term later, Prime Minister. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u76	In 2008, Mr Rutte opened a freethinker's room, if I may put it that way. Voltaire quotes flew us from all sides at the time. I remember Mr Rutte then saying that he never thought he would have to go to the Netherlands for the free speech. But he did it! Only he didn't stand there long and that free-thinking space was soon closed again. As a member of the government, the Prime Minister is looking exactly the other way, it seems. The previous Rutte cabinet already saw a role for itself in what is called "the fight against disinformation." I didn't read how this government wants to continue this hobby, but I urge you to stop doing that. Because as Professor Oerlemans predicted the one-party state, George Orwell predicted in his novel 1984 that fighting disinformation by the government will lead to a ministry of truth. And we really shouldn't want that. I call on the government to trust the electorate's judgment. On the basis of arguments debate is fine, but fighting disinformation is bad. To sum up, what this government does is to spend money and restrict fundamental rights, and what the government does not do is to restrict immigration. You will understand that, in the view of the Group of the Forum for Democracy, this cabinet is already at its very beginnings. But it may return at its pace. We call on the government to do so by taking four measures. The first is to stop immigration and immediately cancel all the treaties that stand in the way of it. Do not wait for France to introduce immigrants' quotas after the forthcoming elections, but take a leading role here. Secondly, to repay immediately the money stolen by the Dutch tax authorities and to apologize more for this theft of the past five years than De Nederlandse Bank did because of the slavery of a long time ago. And fourthly, never use the term 'anti-disinformation' again, but simply, if necessary, refute inaccuracies in an open debate. Something that citizens themselves can do very well and in principle the government is not needed. By the way, we also read in the declaration of government that the government wants to take a leading role within the European Union. I must confess that there was some laughter in our group room when we read that. "A mouse roaring," said my colleague Dessing. My colleague Hiddema said: 'God, let's call President Macron and warn him that the Netherlands will no longer sign the cross'. However, we have decided not to do so. We're gonna watch that ship stranded quietly. Nevertheless, we wish the government wisdom and strength in governing our beautiful country in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u77	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mr Rosenmöller van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u78	I have one question, which comes from one of the interruptions. Mr Frentrop said that he looked differently at the qualification of the Russian President who gave his political leader. It's okay. A few weeks ago, there was a similar interruption. It was about the core of vaccination policy. Your political leader then called not to vaccinate, and you said no small thing: I distance myself from that and I look at it differently. That assumes that if you put a few more of those interruptions well timed, that difference will get bigger. My question is: do you still feel at home at the Forum for Democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u79	I can answer that very briefly, with one word: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u80	Or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u81	Yes, but if you ask me like that, I might be able to sketch out or give you a little explanation of the difference between what you belong to elsewhere in the country and in this Chamber of People of the Forum for Democracy. I believe that everyone within our party shares the analysis of the problems that exist and the solutions that need to be found. But one difference is that some people behind things that go wrong see malicious intent, while the group here in the First Chamber always thinks: before you assume malice, you may first have to ask yourself if it isn't just stupidity. If you see differences, you always see them at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u82	Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF. Oh, Mr Rosenmöller has a small final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u83	Well, maybe more of a observation. Thank you for this response. It gives a little insight into the diversity of the party. That is always helpful in a political judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u84	It was a pleasure, Mr. Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u85	Mr Raven on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u86	I would like to ask Mr Frentrop what he thinks of the methodology of the GGD in recent times with regard to vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u87	I didn't quite hear you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u88	I would like to ask you what you think of the vaccination campaign carried out by the Health Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u89	The vaccination campaign. Well, what I've been through is that it was extremely well organized. I've been in a huge hall in the RAI.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u90	I'm asking because you just said something about fake news and how to fight it. You're calling on the Cabinet not to do that. I read in the first tweet at Forum voor Democracy: "Our report on the serious abuses of the vaccination of children. Look and judge for yourself about the methodology of the GGD." You are here in the First Chamber the representative of Forum for Democracy. I don't quite understand why you're writing this and then giving this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u91	And that in the context of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u92	Well, Mr. President, this is in the context of the input of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u93	A brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u94	I believe that Mr Raven refers to a video made by a member of our House of Representatives about the vaccination of children without the consent of the parents. Is that what you mean? I don't have an opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u95	You can check for yourself. It's the first tweet I've seen. You mentioned disinformation. I think this is a whole story of disinformation. It doesn't fit your own feeling that the GGD is doing a very bad job. That's what you're telling me here. The Forum for Democracy is throwing a tweet into the world that is simply disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u97	Yes, perhaps, but I can give you a few examples of disinformation. But perhaps we should do so outside the debate on the government statement. We're gonna wrap this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u98	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u99	Mr. Chairman. We're betting on it. That seems to be the idea of the coalition agreement. In the month of the coalition agreement, 11,237 gambling advertisements were broadcast on TV, as Don Cedar of the Christian Union peated. This number will increase significantly as from 1 April on the basis of unchanged policies. Government with a small majority in the Lower House and with a minority in the Upper House is the ultimate guess for this cabinet. It is a gamble that will not solve the biggest crises of our time. The bet is whether we opt for instability, new pandemics and a society that is stuck or for another, more sustainable way. The housing crisis, the nitrogen crisis, the biodiversity crisis, the climate crisis and the corona crisis demand that we solve the problems in conjunction with innovative policies and not by closing one gap with another. With 25 billion recovery payments for the nitrogen crisis and 35 billion for the climate crisis and sustainability, we are burdening future generations with debt. That wouldn't be a bad thing if they were looking for real solutions. That is not the case. Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals has been asking for more than thirteen years to reduce the risk of pandemics by zoonoses. These are diseases that jump from animals to humans. Although we are now full of COOVID-19, we will also have to do everything we can to prevent the emergence of new zoonoses. We're experiencing the worst outbreak of avian flu ever. In four months, 1.5 million chickens and ducks have been gassed. Virologists see the situation around the avian flu crisis escalating. The virus is spreading to more and more species, such as foxes, otters and seals. Man too appears to be susceptible. In China and Laos, 60 people were infected, half of whom died. When the human virus becomes transmissible to humans, we're still two steps away from it. The mortality rate will be tens of times greater than that of the coronavirus. For now, the cabinet is not doing anything with these warnings. Mr. Chairman. In July 2021, at the request of the Animal Party, the Zoonosen report was established. From this, the Netherlands appears as a potential hotspot for zoonotic outbreaks. The report is clear: the number of animals in livestock farming should be reduced, as should the number of animals per stall and the number of poultry farms in water-rich areas. It is also necessary to tackle deforestation for the production of animal feed, which takes place abroad as a result of Dutch policy. Wildlife trade needs to be combated harder. The coalition agreement is silent on this in all languages. How is that possible? There is no attention whatsoever to the prevention of the greatest threat at present. The gap between rich and poor has widened nationally and internationally during the pandemic. Apparently, it is difficult to learn lessons from the crisis. Can the Prime Minister explain what his thoughts are on this matter and what the cabinet is doing about it? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Public health is the stepchild of the government declaration. People living in rural areas live next door to fields where agricultural poison is sprayed. Farmers who work a lot with arthropods seem to have a greater chance of parkinson, Alzheimer's and cancer. The same applies to residents. However, it is widely used. People around goat farms are shown to have pneumonia more often, but even with recent experiences with Q fever, the cabinet does not do anything about it. Can the Prime Minister explain that? Mr. Chairman. We also saw good news in the coalition agreement. The introduction of a sugar tax is something that our group has been advocating for years, as is a zero VAT rate on fruit and vegetables. But to our surprise, this is not yet feasible, because the Tax Administration's IT systems cannot handle it. That's absurd, isn't it? What are the priorities of the Tax Administration? How's the Prime Minister gonna fix this? Mr. Chairman. For decades too little has been done to prevent a nitrogen and nature crisis. Now 25 billion in reparation payments are being made for problems that could have been avoided very well, including by helping farmers to switch over, keep fewer animals, buy out or move out. The cabinet is once again opting for technological renewals, while we have seen that they do not produce sufficient environmental benefits and make an even more miserable life for animals who have to spend their daily lives in farmhouses. What concerns us is that there is plenty of cow-trading by provinces in the netting of nitrogen duties. Rijkswaterstaat bought six farms to allow the renewal of the A15 with nitrogen duties. Limburg used the nitrogen space of a farm that has not been in use since 2012 to expand a railway terminal. Provinces are looking for legal goat paths which reduces nitrogen emissions on paper, but actually increases. What's the Prime Minister gonna do about it? Has nothing been learned from the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen? The courts are clear. I'd also like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Last week there was the impression that the cabinet had achieved the Urgenda target of at least 25% less CO emissions by 2020 compared to 2015. I would very much like to congratulate the cabinet on this, but woody biomass, aviation and shipping do not count in the statistics. Those are certainly not clean industries. If we counted them, it would show that the curve is going up instead of down. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. It is incomprehensible that aviation, the most polluting transport sector, is once again being spared. The flight tax gets a little higher, but the cabinet is also full of biokerosin as a panacea to fly clean. KLM and Transavia mix 0.5% kerosene on a full tank of fuel. Even if you filled the whole tank with biokerosin, there's no such thing as clean flies. Shrimp is the only solution. Nevertheless, the KLM cabinet supports with many billions of taxpayers' money. This could also be used for more urgent cases, rather than for a technically bankrupt company. The fair value of the entire Air France-KLM is about half of what the Cabinet grants support to KLM. Mr. Chairman. Why has the cabinet still not opted for the final closure of Lelystad Airport, where there are no permits for nature, while the need for a new airport does not exist? Economics over ecology? Short term over long term? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The polluter pays, but the bill comes mainly from the citizens. Households pay the bill for the sustainability of industry. How does the Prime Minister justify that Shell and Tata Steel still have an exemption position? Mr. Chairman. The importance of home insulation is particularly pressing now that gas prices have been shot through the roof. When does the cabinet come up with a sound compensation for families who are literally in the cold because they can no longer pay the energy bill? Why does the government allow tax revenues to rise with the increase in gas prices? What is the cabinet going to do about the increasing popularity of wood and pellet stoves, which are very polluting and unhealthy and which literally saddle whole neighbourhoods with smell and health problems? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. The word "forest" is not mentioned in the coalition agreement, while conservation of the earth's rainforests is crucial to achieving the Paris climate goals. The Netherlands is one of the biggest contributors to the deforestation of rainforests for the import of palm oil, animal feed and meat. The government says it wants to stop this import, but in no way does it make any sense. Also, the hood of the Sterrebos in Limburg was not prevented from The Hague, despite conflicting with European protection rules and the risk of a European infringement procedure. What will the Cabinet do to protect existing forests in the Netherlands and in the rest of the world? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm finishing up, but not until I've asked attention for the unlucky generation of students who are out of her debt saddled with a huge student debt. Is the Prime Minister prepared to give proper compensation to this affected group? And I don't mean a consolation price of €1,000, but a real compensation. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet gambles with the most valuable thing we have and, moreover, allows vulnerable groups to be tempted to become addicted to gambling. The latter must be easy to solve, as the House of Representatives has repeatedly asked. Can the Prime Minister undertake to drastically reduce gambling advertising by 1 April? And is the Prime Minister prepared to stop gambling with our climate, our nature and our environment? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u100	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the Prime Minister and the three coalition ministers to this temporary home, an emergency facility. It was Willem Drees who, 75 years ago, in 1947, introduced the Emergency Old Age Supply Act. The need was made a virtue by the introduction, ten years later, of the General Old Age Law, the AOW, in 1956. That was unprecedented then and got a name: drawing from Drees. When I was a kid, I heard that that was the conversation of the day on the street. How happy the elders were, in great wonder. It was the great solidarity of the fifties. I'll never forget that. I'm just gonna drop in with the door. After 65 years, is this Prime Minister gonna make people say, "We're gonna get rid of Rutte"? How did it come to this, this AOW-debacle, this AOW-debacle of decoupling? It will not be surprising that I am going into our magnificent AOW today, because it is suddenly under heavy political fire. 'Cause it's too expensive. Our AOW is a sacred good. The way people deal with the elderly reflects the civilisation of a country. Harassment of the AOW is damaging our civilisation. Seniors and pensioners get the feeling that their interests are no longer safe. But the younger generation must also be concerned. Everyone turns 65 and looks forward to the AOW. That prospect stands like a house, and our children must be able to count on it. Security for the future. I quote Professor Verbon from the Volkskrant of 2 February: 'Young people also have an interest in linking the AOW to the minimum wage'. 50PLUS does not turn against young people, it is also right for young people. The AOW is a public insurance and should not become an old-age provision, a new form of poor care, with which we would return to the emergency provision of Drees from 1947. The AOW becomes politically drunk game. It's already the AOWs. Disconnecting is torn to the AOW and puts the axe at the root. It's the first step towards the end. And that under the political framing of the supposedly wealthy elderly. You have to solve that through taxes for everyone. The AOW and child benefit are very strong national insurance schemes, laws that have survived all the political storms and still have a strong support base for the population. AOW and child benefit are still real schemes for everyone: regardless of income and therefore not fraud-prone and very feasible. As Mrs Vos also said: simplicity and predictability. But now come up with some executable. You should know that. The AOW is linked to the minimum wage in 1965. In 1980 the law stipulated that the AOW would be linked to the net minimum wage. For single people this is 70% of the net minimum wage and for married persons it is 50%. This legal link has existed for over 40 years. A deal is a deal, and we have to respect it. You don't cut back on that. Everyone pays AOW premium, which is income-dependent, and everyone receives later an AOW benefit, which is equal for everyone and income-independent. All AOWers have paid contributions for 45 years and worked hard for that. They are therefore all entitled to the AOW and the coupling. Older people can't influence their income anymore. What the cabinet is doing now is incomprehensible. There is suddenly 100 billion for climate, nitrogen, infrastructure, etc. And there's over 3 billion for tax relief for workers. But there's no money for 3 million AOWs. The decoupling of the AOW from the minimum wage was not included in any electoral programme. Nevertheless, the coalition agreement states that we will gradually increase the minimum wage by 7.5% and maintain the link with the benefits (with the exception of the AOW) in order to strengthen the minimum standard of living. "Keeping the AOW" was in brackets. What was I, with my group and my party, bewildered. It was supplemented with a bizarre pubic lac, a make-up: we meet older people through a higher elderly discount. That's bullshit. The elderly discount does nothing for people with only AOW or AOW and a small pension. If you don't pay taxes, you don't need a tax discount. So it's a pacifier. Worse still, it's a blunder. Rutte IV's motto is to look forward to each other. Except for the AOWs. In 2019, the number of older people who could not redeem the old discount in full or in part was 814,000. In 2022, this figure will be above the million at a much higher old age discount. I have here table 18 from the answers of the CDA group in the Lower House to the Tax Plan 2019, 35026, number 13. In it is the number of 814,000 people. That will now be much more than a million, because every year it increases by 100,000 people who cannot cash the old-age discount. You're talking about one out of three AOWs who can't cash that old-age discount and you're talking about almost a billion dollars they can't cash. Mr. Chairman. The link would be too expensive and AOW'ers would still have a good pension. I'm helping the Prime Minister out of a dream. Too expensive? The AOW expenditure is fairly constant as a percentage of our gross national product: 5%. In France, that is 14%. The median pension for construction and metal is €4,000 gross and €300 per month. With the care it is €8,000 and €600 per month. Median means that half have a lower pension than that €4,000 or €8,000 per year. And that means that a million pensioners have a pension that is less than €500 gross per month. The cabinet and coalition groups tried to dismantle the decoupling politically by making it small. In the debate on the coalition agreement the decoupling in the Lower House was called "one time" by Hermans and by Heerma "temporarily." They also argued that the link would continue to exist. Mrs Jorritsma therefore referred to an alleged decoupling. I was able to take that off. It is true that the normal link between AOW and assistance to the increase in the minimum wage remains. That is why I prefer to speak of "decoupling": the anchoring of the minimum wage is disconnected, the AOW is withdrawn from additional increases in the minimum wage. VVD and CDA solemnly promised that there should be additional compensation, in whatever form. But decoupling cannot be repaired by purchasing power measures. Chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists Ploumen made it striking in the House of Representatives: what you take away cannot be repaired. For 50PLUS it is principled. If you take the clutch, that right will never come back. Compensation for this merely confirms that justice is gone. The decoupling is not temporary and not one-off. After all, the consequences are permanent and final. In 2025, the 3.5 million AOWs will notice that the AOW for single persons has fallen from 70% to 65% and for married persons from 50% to 46%. Mr Van Kesteren said that these figures are correct. The minimum wage will be increased even more frequently, towards €14. So this is only the first step. The AOW as a percentage of the net minimum wage will then be much lower. We've been warned. The FNV pointed out that as a result of the decoupling the pension contributions for employees should be increased, because the supplementary pension has to be increased to close the AOW gap. Mrs Faber pointed that out. In the Senate, the cabinet has no majority in favour of decoupling. 50PLUS asks the Prime Minister: withdraw this miserable plan and do not come forward with a bill. In view of the great importance of the case, I shall table the next motion in the first time. The: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Baay-Timmerman and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the link between the minimum wage and the AOW is abandoned in the coalition agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to link the AOW to the planned additional increase in the minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. The AOW decoupling becomes the dividend tax of Rutte-IV. The 50PLUS petition to keep the clutch has 85,000 signatures today. Pensioners' purchasing power has been hit hard by 25% of the indexing that has been missed since 2008, but now, due to flying inflation, it is an extra tough one. This 25% loss of indexing amounts to up to 50 billion for pensioners. 50PLUS asks the Cabinet to come with an emergency measure, an emergency response, to increase pensions from 2022 for young and old by 5%. It doesn't cost the state anything. It gives the new finance minister 700 million extra tax. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the decline in purchasing power due to flying inflation. The AOW is always increased with delay, now by 1.5%, and pensions are not increased. What is the government going to do to improve purchasing power for all, and extra for older people? They are hit hardest and inflation was 6.5% in January. We received a motion in December in the First Chamber to increase the AOW by €200 for this year. We ask the Cabinet, in view of the higher inflation rate, to raise that amount once for this year. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the savers and the 3-drama box. After a lingering illness of box 3, the Supreme Court put an end to the struggle for death and put a line on the fictional return. There is a budgetary gap, but I must warn the cabinet: do not say, like the coalition in the Lower House, that the workers should not bleed and that this will be the elderly. We don't want that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a warning: code red for your own home. This morning I also indicated that the house is not allowed to go to box 3, but has to leave box 1. That is what we call the so-called defiscalisation of our own home. Older people have saved up for their own home and lived for it economically. They themselves cannot do anything about the ridiculous rise in house prices, but they are caught for it. So don't. I await with great interest the Prime Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Schalk has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Mr President. In the previous General Political Reviews I showed a piece of music. I understand from the President that this is no longer desirable, so I have brought something else, namely a book.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u105	I don't know what you're gonna do, but if you want to show me something, you're gonna have to ask the president in advance. This is a public debate and people can't see this at home. I ask you not to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u106	I'll put it here and not show it. I'll tell you what book it is. Maybe that's okay, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u107	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. It's a gift. I think a little present for the Prime Minister is appropriate, who is here again representing the fourth cabinet that bears his name. Maybe he's thinking to himself, no, not another book. But this is a special book. It is a kind of graced print book, which has been reprinted more than twenty times within a year. According to the writer, Charlie Mackesy, it's a book for everyone, whether you're eight or 80. The title of the book is: The boy, the mole, the fox and the horse. The boy is lonely, the mole likes cakes, the fox is nervous and the horse is wise. The boy first gets to know the mole. I'm so small, said the mole. Yeah, the boy said, but you're making a big difference. That's a wonderful lesson, perhaps for my own party as well. In the coming cabinet period, the SGP will try to make the difference by our usual attitude: governmental and constructive-critical, as long as the government comes up with good proposals. When the boy and the mole are just on their way, they see a vast landscape. The boy asks, "What's that over there?" That's the wilderness, says the mole, don't be afraid of it. Maybe that's a nice lesson for the new cabinet. Fear is a bad counselor. Therefore, do not be afraid, but be alert. Just when it comes to our safety. Rising tensions between Russia and Ukraine make it clear that there can be a fireplace in Europe's backyard and that world peace has not yet broken out. That is why the Netherlands must continue to invest in defence so that we can fulfil our NATO obligations. The Prime Minister assured me during the previous cabinet period that it would be in order in May 2024. My question to the Prime Minister is how the cabinet will deliver on that commitment. Safety is certainly not a matter of course. It is not just an international theme; it must also be our focus in our own country. The police, the security services and all emergency workers must be able to work safely and unhindered. What additional measures does the new government intend to take to maintain our rule of law? The boy and the mole meet a fox, but it's trapped in a trap. The fox is threatening: if I can get to you, I'll kill you. The mole's turning it around. He says if you stay in that trap, you die. That's a tough lesson. It's hard practice, too. If we leave people trapped in drugs by continuing to offer the opportunity to start with legalized drugs, such as weed, and I know what kind of mess they're gonna break up with, along with those who love them. Dare to end it! Or how does the Prime Minister reconcile the effective approach to preventing problematic drug use with that terrible experiment? If people are trapped in prostitution, shouldn't we help them out? When does the government come up with a tough approach? Can there be a timetable for stepping up the exit programmes? Or take the flow of misery around the sexual harassment of women who go public all the way. Is this not the time to look at what we all dare to show, for example on public service broadcasting? If there is a shameless display of everything and something, including in the sexual field, do we find it strange that it also takes place in the real world? The mole in this children's booklet dared to free the fox by chewing through that trap with his little teeth. My question to the cabinet is: how are you going to deal with the traps of drugs, of porn and prostitution, of crime and of undermining? The boy, the mole and the fox are moving on together. They look at the landscape, above which they see a shooting star. And what does it say? "So many beautiful things to take care of." As the cabinet now keeps that in mind, so many beautiful things to take care of. I'm just naming a few themes. Freedom of education, unique in the world. Cherish that freedom and ensure good connection for everyone by going back to the basic scholarship. At what time does the Prime Minister expect this to be achieved? Or take public health. Now there's a corona pandemic, something different later. Please take care of those care workers. Ensure a care system that does not break into its joints, but is based on a solid foundation both in terms of knowledge and financial, and guard the boundaries of medical ethics, also by initiative laws from the Lower House. The SGP will pay particular attention to the morals of life and death from the Biblical notion that life is worthy of protection, because we cannot make it ourselves, but above all because life is actually a godsend. Or take the money and the economy. I was shocked to see Minister Hoekstra handing over the key to the treasury digitally to Minister Kaag. Previously, I've always been told that that conscious key was lost. Now that it's been found, the money flows into all kinds of funds. How do we prevent, I ask the cabinet, that the debts end up with the next generation? And how do we control the sovereign debt? Economically, we're not in bad shape. Make sure that everyone benefits, not only large businesses and SMEs, but also workers. They make the money eventually. So let us reward them for that, by building a fair tax system with a view to the lower paid. What is the cabinet going to do about the marginal pressure that makes the lowest paid over every euro earned pay about 80 cents of tax money? One earners with a modal salary still pay up to seven times as much tax as two earners! Is the new Secretary of State really going to address that gap? Mr. Chairman. There is also a legislative proposal on the non-indexation of family allowances. In the context of the fight against poverty, I ask: is the government prepared to withdraw this proposal? I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. There are still two important lessons in this children's book and in the second term I will mention the last lesson. After that, I will only give this book to prevent us from losing the Prime Minister as an interlocutor. Once he's got this book, maybe he's too busy with it. Now we have one lesson, and that is about the culture of governance. The SGP Group will pay attention to the words and actions of the new cabinet, knowing that we are called to bear this responsibility. In doing so, I am guided by the Bible as the word of God that is beneficial to everyone. Others do this from their own convictions. The government operates from four coalition parties, but the question arises how we do our job. Perhaps we should consider this in our chambre de réflexion, especially since, in the run-up to the declaration of government, the new administrative culture has been called upon time and time again. What do we mean by that, I ask the Prime Minister. In self-reflection, I ask my fellow senators: is this call really only aimed at the rulers? That would be very easy, because then it's some kind of prize shooting. Mr. Chairman. My group is very concerned about the high tone of public debate. Of course there's freedom of speech, but that doesn't mean you just have to say everything. In a conversation between the mole and the boy, it is put very sharply: one of our greatest freedoms is how we react to things. And that's a true word, because it's no matter how we deal with that freedom. It is striking that the Bible teaches a lot of wise lessons, precisely about our words. Think of Solomon when he says that a soft answer turns away fury, but that a grievous word raises anger. In the New Testament there is a text by Paul who personally always appeals to me very much: let your words be pleasant, thus kindness, and sprinkled with salt. You know: salt is spoilt and tasteful. Isn't that how the debate gets smothered? No, the debate is gaining strength if we listen to each other with respect and talk to each other. Politicians do not derive their authority from much screaming and little wool. And as long as we get down to it, society will follow our example: whoever sows wind will reap a storm. If we are concerned about the high tone of the public debate, if we are concerned about the safety of our rulers and our fellow MEPs, then we have to look in the mirror. A new administrative culture begins here, not only with the Prime Minister and his cabinet, not only with my colleagues, but here, behind this cathedral, with me. In other words, everyone who speaks here contributes to this new governance culture. My appeal is: let us take up this responsibility together, worthy and passionate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u109	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. And, however sympathetic, I would ask Members not to hand over matters other than the spoken word to each other. Now it's a book, it's gonna be a picture, a movie or a petition. All these requests have already been received as a result of this debate today. But it's home for people not to follow. The debate must be closely monitored and it must also be public. That is also stated in our Rules of Procedure and even in the Constitution. Outside the meeting, you can give everything to each other, but not in the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u110	We'll get out of there together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u111	Mr President, I will ensure that it is handed over to the Prime Minister outside the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u112	I now give the floor to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. There is a lot to do lately about the book De zeven vickjes, in which it is stated that a certain privileged group of so-called "seven finches" would be the service in the Netherlands. But this analysis doesn't add up. The author of the book thought he represented a lot of things, but only when he went to work abroad did he notice that the level was significantly higher there than in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has become increasingly a country where talent is not tolerated and where mediocrity and lifestyles have been declared the new norm. This mediocreness, combined with box thinking, results in decreasing upward social mobility and also hampers integration. That is the problem in the Netherlands. Talent often doesn't end up in the right places, not even in Dutch politics. As the saying goes, every country gets the leadership it deserves. Looking at each other, looking forward to the future, that is the motto of this new Rutte IV cabinet. Visionlessly muddling through perspectiveless leadership would, according to our group, be a more appropriate motto for this cabinet. Because what this cabinet and this prime minister lack is vision and leadership, but also intuition and timing. That's what's missing every time. Intuition is described as "the direct perception of the truth and the facts, independently of any reasoning process." Intuition is the ability to quickly come to the right decisions with quick perception and sharp insights. After three Rutte Cabinets, we can see that this is just missing. In particular, the approach to the corona crisis has made this painfully clear. The cabinet often did not see the rapidly changing corona problem well, went way too far towards RIVM and the OMT and almost declared the inimitable corona models of the RIVM sacred. This resulted in endless and time-consuming consultation, which often made the timing of the measures wrong and created a lot of mistrust and polarisation in society. We have discussed this in this Upper House since 2020 non-stop. I'm not going to repeat any of that right now. The Wob-pieces that have been revealed so far, we are now sitting with those Wob-pieces only in May 2020.................................................................................................................................... Our group has consistently warned of this from the outset. But with a cynicism where the dogs don't like bread so it is clear from the Wob-pieces.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Last year we tabled a motion to introduce a chief medical officer, following the example of other countries, in order to increase the effectiveness of this kind of medical crisis. We are very pleased that the proposal to appoint a chief medical officer has been incorporated into the coalition agreement on page 32. We now also have a physician as Minister of Health. That is an improvement as far as we are concerned. But what about the appointment of the chief medical officer, I ask the prime minister. If the CMO is there, then perhaps the OMT can also be dissolved immediately, because this wheelbarrow full of frogs that gave mainly opposing opinions and advice in the talk shows for two years is clearly not a workable structure. That's what we've been able to conclude. The population is totally affected by this OMT opinion circuit. So disband the OMT. That would be our advice. Mr. Chairman. Never before has the action of the Dutch government been benchmarked as real-time worldwide as during the corona crisis. You do not have to wait for the parliamentary survey to conclude that there has been a relatively large amount of damage to society and health. However, as there are fewer and fewer corona patients in hospitals, despite the record number of infections, now is the time to withdraw all the emergency legislation and abolish QR measures. This disproportionate emergency law should not be in the fridge, but should now be in the trash can. History teaches that temporary measures last longer in the Netherlands. That's why we need to get rid of it as soon as possible. Should corona get worse, we can always make new emergency legislation which is less disproportionate and which is approved by both chambers in advance. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the cabinet leaned too much on RIVM models in the corona crisis, which often turned out to be completely incorrect. With regard to the problem of nitrogen, we now see the same approach. Based on completely arbitrary RIVM models, the whole country is plunged into an artificial nitrogen crisis. The necessary homes cannot be built. The new Minister for Nitrogen is allowed to spend 25 billion via a nitrogen fund. In addition, the famous climate expert Rob Jetten is going to spend another 35 billion via a climate fund, while at the Groepfonds the top man of Invest-NL, Wouter Bos, has already chosen the hare path and resorted to more grassy pastures. These green gray funds are a true walhalla for consultants and climate lobbyists. Dozens of billions of taxpayers' money are looking for projects. In recent years, our group has warned many times about these ill-thought-out forms of state capitalism, which are undoubtedly going to end in a tear trap for the taxpayer. We are in good company, because several top economists, but also people like Onno Ruding and former Secretary-General Van Wijnbergen, have warned about this. But all the objections are swept away and they continue on this wrong turn. The VVD has now turned to the left so far that the VVD has now flown over the guardrail of the right track and is driving ghostly on the left track. It's just waiting for the disastrous blow, which may come on March 16th. But the Prime Minister thinks, "Well, if I can keep driving the butted VVD-bolide until I break the record of the previous longest-sitting Prime Minister, I'm cool with everything. However, if you, as a government, want to drastically reduce CO emissions if necessary, we believe that this can be done at a much lower rate, but these are the objectives that this government has set itself. Do so with a long-term vision and make clear choices. The largest CO-polluter in the Netherlands is Tata Steel in IJmuiden. I'm not allowed to show it here, but I'll make the top ten available on my Twitter so everyone can take notice of it. Tata Steel is therefore the largest CO-polluter in the Netherlands, with 5.7 million tonnes of CO per year. On number three is the nearby Vattenfall in Velsen with 3.4 million tonnes of CO per year. If you want to make clear choices, use several billions of Minister Jetten's climate fund to buy out and shut down Tata Steel. Therefore, provide good redundancy schemes and replacement jobs for the Tata staff. At least those kinds of choices quickly make sense if this is your goal. As far as we are concerned, it can all be slower, but we find more effective measures than making plans with an army of consultants and money looking for projects. This also has the advantage of releasing a very large area in the Randstad for housing, close to the sea and close to Amsterdam. Estimates range from 40,000 to 80,000 homes. And the environment in North Holland is also greatly improving, because we all know that there are many environmental problems around this company. So if this is your goal, I would take it in a more decisive way and take great steps that have positive implications in the long term. If you, as a cabinet, provide fast connections between the new Tata Town, as I would like to call it, and Amsterdam, for example, through the crossing of the North/South line, you can also solve the housing problem in the Randstad in part. It's a win-win scenario. You can also apply for free money from the EU. So what are we waiting for? But these kind of tough choices don't make this cabinet. It all goes again in the traditional, mediocre, Dutch way through the ticking of beaten paths. Just like we're used to. Mr. Chairman. As said, this cabinet has ambitious climate objectives, but these plans are not realistic at all in the nineteenth century, archaic Dutch administrative system, which was devised by Thorbecke. Thorbecke's house had three floors, Rijk, province and municipality, but an EU floor has been built on top of it. There is also a jungle of common regulations and interprovincial consultations. Thorbecke's house has now become an uninhabitable house, which is certainly not equipped with these ambitious cabinet plans. The Rutte cabinet thinks that you can mount a jet engine on a stagecoach and that the coach can fly by itself. Of course, that's gonna end up in a giant crash. You don't have to be a rocket scientist for that. We therefore call on the cabinet to do something about the governmentability of the Netherlands before implementing these ambitious plans. But this phenomenon of ordering unenforceable legislation is particularly persistent. The new cabinet also insists on introducing the miserable Environment Act, the newest prestige project of Minister of Housing Hugo de Jonge. For which problem is the Environment Act the solution, I asked during the debate two years ago in this Upper House. In this Chamber I have often crossed swords with Minister De Jonge about the corona measures, but I strongly advise him to look back on my contribution to the Environment Act of 28 January 2020. I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman. This contribution precisely predicts the current failure of the Environment Act, including the huge ICT chaos that has now emerged. A strong piece of bad and unenforceable legislation, which this First Chamber should have put a stop to. Better halfway than completely lost, our appeal to the cabinet is also here. Mr President, I will conclude. What we need in the Netherlands is effective, fair and efficient governance. This coalition agreement cannot pass this test of effective, fair and efficient governance as far as our group is concerned. But we look forward to the government's response in response to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u114	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u115	Let me start with the most important thing: may I welcome the directors of the new cabinet to the compensation cabinet, so to speak, to welcome it to this First Chamber? It is up to you the important task of restoring the enormous loss of confidence suffered by the rule of law due to government failure. That is a recovery operation that is unprecedented in our parliamentary history. Think about it. Compensation for damage caused by the childcare allowance scandal. Compensation of earthquake damage in Groningen and large parts of the North Netherlands. Compensation for unduly levied capital yield tax in recent years. Compensation for reducing debts due to the student loan system. Compensation for the intended release of the AOW coupling. It's not quite through yet, but I can see that compensation coming. And compensation for non-indexing pensions over the period 2009-2021, reducing the purchasing power of pensions by more than 20%. That is absolutely scandalous, if I may say anything about it, but I shall come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. These compensation assignments seem to be an impossible task for the new cabinet. Nevertheless, the important task on their shoulders is to restore confidence in our rule of law and our government. How's the government gonna do that? It is not an easy task, even because of the highly polarized relations, in which some parties try to undermine the office of the Minister or Secretary of State in a structural way. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that the reformers and reformers have finally managed to find people who are still willing to join this team as a ruler. How is the government going to bridge the gap between coalition and opposition? Is it still possible to work on a healthy governance culture? How do you get the parties to let them jump over their own shadows, as they probably have to leave their positions from the past in order to arrive at a mutually agreed solution? Our advice to the cabinet is: aim for broad support. The cabinet has only a small majority in the Lower House and a minority in this Chamber. That's a poor starting position. The Independent Senate Group wants to work with you on the task of putting the Netherlands back on the right path. You can count on us where necessary and you will find us if necessary. For this we expect strength, strength and persuasiveness. Only broad support can make up for lost time and restore confidence in government. Get a new administrative approach. Find the connection on content. Look at what binds parties, not what separates them. For example, form a state committee that will work on a Chamber Agreement next year that is widely supported by all parties in both the Second and the First Chambers. In the last year, I was surprised that the First Chamber, at least my group, was not asked at all what it expected from the new cabinet. I find that strange in a situation in which both the Second and the First Chamber form Parliament. Ensure proper planning and control if you would pursue such a Chamberwide agreement. Also ensure that implementation is ensured. The Independent Senate Group represents the largest independent local political movement in the Netherlands. We will see that again on 16 March. Our platform consists of a large number of provincial and local parties represented in provinces and municipalities. Too often, the interests of the regions are undervalued in the Hague policy. That's gotta improve. In doing so, strengthen the position of the municipalities. They play a crucial role in the implementation and implementation of the national targets. Without municipalities no implementation of the state policy. However, many, particularly smaller municipalities, are threatened by major financial cuts through the initial calculations of the redistribution of the Community Fund. Our plea is: no municipality should be allowed to decline in the redistribution of the Municipal Fund. Of course, this requires the necessary additional resources, but this is in line with the remit of the compensation cabinet that fixes past mistakes and needs to work towards restoring confidence. The financial resources of municipalities through the Municipal Fund should, in our opinion, be increased by billions in structural terms anyway. Article 108 (3) of the Municipal Act does not allow for the decentralisation of tasks from the government to municipalities without sufficient resources. However, this is likely to happen again, for example in the field of youth care. Compensation cabinet, compensate the municipalities for adequate youth care. How are you gonna do that? On the one hand, to correct past mistakes and restore confidence: how long will it take to use the reverse burden of proof in these damages in Groningen? Why should the center of the Netherlands have several specialised children's centers, in Rotterdam and Utrecht, while a large part of the central Netherlands can also go to adjacent Belgian children's centers? Why is the UMCG, the only child heart centre in Northern Netherlands, threatened with closure, even without foreign coverage? Why are foreign centres not involved in this discussion anyway? In Limburg, for example, all patients are referred to Belgium or Germany. Why is this not happening in the rest of the Netherlands? Why do we not have this discussion in Benelux, for example? Why does the Netherlands have to wait years to connect to high-speed lines to the rest of Europe via Aachen and Liège? These are two connections of only 30 kilometres of railroad, which can give a huge boost to the South-Dutch economy in particular. These lines could also significantly reduce short-term European air traffic. Take this as a priority. The climate minister should also be involved. For more than three decades now, these relatively small-scale public transport projects with a very positive impact on the climate have not received any funding, while billions from the Growth Fund are allocated to a local train link at Rotterdam without measurable economic impact. Why have infrastructure projects in the North Netherlands, including the Lelyline and the crossing of the train network via Enschede to Germany, been waiting for implementation for years? Why do independent political parties, which, as I said, are the largest political movement locally, still not receive subsidies on the basis of the Financing Act political parties, and national parties do? The transition to a circular economy begins with industry. There the adadium can be applied "big steps, fast at home." Here too, the Netherlands is larger than the Randstad. Make sure that the underground pipes and the energy network in the Netherlands are converted to sustainable and safe transport facilities for industry that is not by the sea before 2025. The OSF attaches great importance to maintaining landscape structure in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, building with appreciation for the landscape may still be possible, but we do not want urbanisation of landscape areas. We call on the new Minister of Housing not to place the priority of the housing program at the Randstad. After all, it's already overloaded. Prioritise the regions through additional building programmes in the 40 medium-sized municipalities, so that a rapid but balanced distribution across the Netherlands and all provinces takes place. This also tackles the problem of shrinking regions. Save the Randstad and make the G40 a priority partner in housing. Don't give in to the building rage of some city leaders of the four big cities. Towards suburbanisation, with the population trading the big cities for the 40 smaller cities scattered across the country, in favour of a viable future for the whole of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. There's work to be done for the compensation cabinet. Major efforts are needed to regain the confidence of the population. This also requires large sums of money. The new cabinet is now also showing great and necessary ambitions in other areas, such as climate, nitrogen and infrastructure. However, in all areas where this is necessary, politics will have to provide adequate compensation, in childcare, in earthquake damage, in the capital efficiency levy, in study debts and in the AOW link. All issues of failed government intervention in the past. Restore trust, otherwise trust in the rule of law will become irreparable. Mr. Chairman. During their working lives, all Dutch employees have been promised from the date of the Pension Act that they could make monthly savings for a fixed-value pension that they could have at their disposal from retirement. A fixed-value pension is a pension adjusted to the price increases which maintain the purchasing power of pension benefits. In recent years, most pension funds have not indexed their pension benefits. In practice, therefore, many pensioners have a nominal pension. The pension funds have therefore broken their promise in recent years. That is why the OSF gives up confidence in the governing bodies of all pension funds that have not indexed. Over the period 2009-2021...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u116	Mr. Raven, I don't know how far you've gone, but you've been through quite a lot of time. So maybe you'd like to finish up. That time includes the second term, so that's gonna be a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u117	Yeah, that's gonna be a challenge. Mr President, may I make a few more sentences? The loss of purchasing power has put pensioners at a disadvantage for thousands of euros every year, for 13 years. The total amount of damage to pensioners is estimated to be around EUR 40 billion. Is this the right amount? At the same time, pension pots have increased by EUR 1,400 billion over the same period. Here, too, the question of whether this amount is correct. If this is the case, non-indexing afterwards has proved to be completely superfluous and, in view of the total size, this is the biggest financial blunder in Dutch history. The compensation cabinet must make sure that this blunder is compensated. If this problem is not resolved, there will be insufficient support for the new pension system. The OSF therefore links both cases together. First compensation for not granting indexation for the past 13 years, then alignment of the new pension system. We have drawn up a petition on this subject in the last period, which has been signed more than 3,000 times. It has been modern lately to draw up petitions as a political party. We started this in October. It is the most unsigned petition if you reject it against other petitions, but it is the most important petition because it concerns thousands of euros that are withheld from people. We call on the compensation cabinet to compensate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u118	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Of course, you can offer the petition at another time, as usual. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u119	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the statement of government. We now need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u120	Mr President, thank you for that. It's special to be in this room. I will quote Churchill, when he was confronted with the painting that was made of him and which was presented by Parliament in the Georgian Hall in the Houses of Parliament in London in the early 1960s. He said, "a remarkable piece of modern art." Mr President, the same applies to the painting hanging over you. How we miss King Willem II and how we hope to see him again soon! I understand he's being restored. So there's a good reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u121	No disrespectful remarks about the ambiance, I hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u122	No, not a single one. It is good to say that I thought it wise to respond to a number of issues. I've come up with six chapters. First, zoom out to the Netherlands in the world and the serious situation around Ukraine. Then everything about economics, a big block, with finances. Then as a third block of climate and energy Groningen. The fourth block is care, including youth care. The fifth block is government and finally Justice and Security, including immigration, undermining and prostitution. Having said that, I would like to make one preliminary remark. It is, of course, about the relationship of the cabinet with the First Chamber. Strictly speaking, the coalition agreement is an agreement between political groups in the Lower House, not between political groups in the Upper House. Maybe that's why we've failed to appoint the First Chamber more often. However, we realise that the First Chamber will play a major role in the implementation of this agreement, not just because you can veto or approve the legislation. There are few First Chambers as powerful in the world as the Dutch First Chamber, with a full veto. In addition, however, as several of you have appointed, the First Chamber plays its own role in our state system, especially as regards the major issues that are at stake in the establishment of the state system, but also, of course, the issues of the quality of legislation. A number of the members noted, with raised eyebrows, that they were not mentioned. That's not meant to mean "that doesn't mean that the First Chamber is important." It is more the classic idea that it is a coalition agreement between political groups in the House of Representatives. On the contrary, we look forward to working together here. Some of my colleagues have already had the first confrontations with the First Chamber, in a pleasant way, I may say. Then I'll start overseas. Without repeating what everyone already knows a few things about the situation around Ukraine. Of course, there is great concern about the tensions at the border between Russia and Ukraine. Everything is focused on de-escalation and dialogue, but we must also be ready if we do not succeed. Ready if that fails means a very robust set of sanctions, which must enter into force immediately, including in the case of the Netherlands, if a modest Russian step is taken in Ukraine. Yeah, what's modest? Even if Russia didn't do big things, it would take smaller actions. We sincerely hope that will not happen and also assume that it will not. Again, the first line is de-escalation and dialogue. But if that doesn't work, we want that firm sanction package to be fully applicable and not to go back to being a primeval package because it's just a small step. No, it's not. In addition, it is very important that intensive discussions are now taking place. Olaf Scholz, the German leader of government, is in Moscow today. In recent days there have been a lot of contacts, both with Moscow and with Kiev in Ukraine. Wopke Hoekstra and myself were there two weeks ago. Of course, we kept in touch afterwards and had very close contact with Scholz, Johnson of England and Macron of France at the level of the Foreign Minister, the Minister of Defence and myself. We try to do everything we can with each other to keep the situation manageable. We do not yet have confirmation of the latest signals today that there would be a withdrawal. Let us hope that these messages are correct, but it is still too early to say anything about them. Against this background, of course, the question raised by Van Kesteren of the CDA, among others, was what that means for the role of Europe. I think that's a central question. Yes, Europe is about market and currency. They're important to our economy. I think that since 2014 we have all seen how important Europe is, in the occupation of Crimea and after that in the experience of the Netherlands itself with MH17. As an association of countries, Europe is helping, because we are a member of each other, in a key task of politics, namely jobs and the economy, but also in security. It does not do that in the sense of NATO as a defence alliance, but it does help with security through cooperation in a strong alliance. This means that we are investing in this. Because the European Union is not a defence alliance, but first and foremost an internal market, it is so important that the internal market works well. The European Union is in principle the most powerful internal market in world history, such as NATO is the most powerful defence alliance in world history. It is also the largest market in the world today, bigger than the United States. Nevertheless, the market functions sub-optimally, to put it mildly. It is the government's belief that investing in making the European Union function better, precisely as a market, will help us to operate with more posture as the European Union on the world stage. You can see that in all kinds of places in the coalition agreement. This also depends on the functioning of the euro as a single currency. At present, euro area countries are growing slower than non-euro countries. There must be a great deal of commitment to ensuring that the euro area, the euro area, has as successful growth rates as non-euro area countries, and if possible better. This is also reflected in the coalition agreement: how are we going to ensure that the euro and the euro area move together towards a higher level of competitiveness and economic prosperity, from the basic promise underlying it both in the 1957 Treaty of Rome and in the 1991 Treaty of Maastricht? That will then help Europe's position on the world stage. So we make sure that we are not a playing field but a player, to use the old cliché. To be more modern, we make sure that people do not say: how nice, Europe will also come running. No, we'll be there. In the field of foreign policy, however, this requires much more joint action. That does not so much require anything from the Netherlands, because we do. This also requires something from France and Germany, where foreign policy is still strongly linked to national consciousness. You can do all that. We're not against that at all. We are also a proud, sovereign state. Foreign policy must be a manifestation of the relative power which very large economies such as Germany and France and, to a lesser extent, Italy have on that world stage. My position would also be that the relative power of the economy has declined vis-à-vis China and the United States and that it is aware of the importance of pooling in the field of foreign policy. If it is up to us, this includes giving up the right of veto in determining the package of sanctions. I am convinced that this will become part of the debate in the European Union in the coming years. That is therefore a direct national, Dutch interest. We are all here for jobs and for safety. That would be my position. Those are the core tasks of politics. Both require European cooperation. Both require Europe to strengthen its position, both in its economy and in its joint action on the world stage in the field of foreign policy. This can be about the axis of the strength of the internal market and the strength of the single currency. That about it. One final question in the field of foreign policy: the 2% NATO standard. That's what we're investing heavily in. That's where we're going with an additional 3 billion structuralally. That is not the point at which we are going to reach 2%. It's going to be 1.85%. So we're just not gonna make it. It is true that there has been an extremely positive international response to this coalition agreement. The reactions from the allies are that the Netherlands is helping with this. This is also necessary from the point of view of the national situation, because we consider defence to be important. It is also extremely helpful when it comes to the Dutch relative impact within NATO and the credibility of the Netherlands. We noticed this immediately on the day of the release of the coalition agreement and the reactions that it brought with it. It's not like we're at 2% in 2024. By the way, the commitment has always been: we are moving towards 2%. That was the 2014 Wales Pledge: we are gradually moving towards 2% together, but not hard guarantees from the NATO joint area that we are also on that 2%. But we're gonna be a long way from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u123	Thank you for the Prime Minister's explanation. Of course, an alliance stands or falls with allies who do as they say. I hear the Prime Minister say we're getting close to that 2%. But in the previous cabinet period, the Prime Minister indicated that we should be there by 2024. So that's not gonna work right now. When will it be achieved, so that we actually confess that alliance not only with the mouth, but also with the currency?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u124	The deal was real that in ten years we're moving towards 2%. The Netherlands really does that convincingly. But it's only really gonna be Rutte V or Rutte VI that we're on that 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u125	It seems to me that you want to prevent that, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u126	No, sorry. In the end, we must move forward. But this is a party political verdict. I can't do that on behalf of the cabinet. As a coalition, we have now agreed to make this investment. I really find it in line with the 2014 Wales Pledge. Again, that is also recognised internationally. I haven't seen much of how quickly we got the reaction from a number of capitals: wow, you're doing something very serious about defence now, which also helps NATO as a whole. In fact, the reaction is implicit: this also helps the impact that the Netherlands is making within NATO and the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u127	For the sake of history and for my own understanding, has that 2% ever been agreed as a target? Or did we ever say that 2% we're going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u128	No, the deal in Wales in 2014 was to move defence spending towards 2% in ten years. This was reconfirmed at the latest NATO Summit in 2021. And with this 3 billion from the Netherlands, so much is added that we really do it nicely. It will, of course, be a party political question as to what that means after this cabinet period. Parties within the coalition can think differently about this. I can't say anything about that on behalf of the entire coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u129	Mr Van der Linden will speak on behalf of the Nanninga Group. I would like to welcome him here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have another question about a remark just made by the Prime Minister, namely that the non-euro countries in the EU are actually doing better than the euro countries at the moment, and that we need to look at how the euro can be adjusted so that it can be reversed. Is this not a reasoning that puts the means at the centre, namely the euro, rather than the objective of economic growth? Shouldn't much more be looked at why the non-euro countries are doing better? And perhaps the euro should be called into question, because it does not seem to work. Shouldn't it be looked at that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u131	Well, from the Netherlands I'd rather not start that discussion, because that doesn't seem in our interest. In 2008-2010, the euro saved us during the banking crisis. Then we had a banking system whose total balance sheet was about four to five times the size of the Dutch economy. My theorem, and not only mine, but also of many authoritative economists, would have been: if we had not had the euro at the time and had the guilder, the Netherlands would have been completely speculated. So that euro has protected us at a crucial moment in our recent history. So let us, as the Netherlands, not make the mistake of starting a debate on the euro. I don't think that's in our best interest. But otherwise, of course, you are absolutely right. The question is not why euro countries are growing slower, but why Sweden is doing better. Why are a few other countries growing faster? By the way, not dramatically much faster, but on average faster. This has nothing to do with that currency, but with the speed with which you can carry out reforms. I think the strength is also in the way we have shaped the whole Recovery Fund. The Netherlands had two wishes there. One of them was, "Don't make it too big." That was that frugal discussion. But it was much more interesting, and that was unique in the Dutch discussion about how we would link that Recovery Fund to reforms. And they're happening now. It is fascinating to see that in Italy, Greece and Portugal, and to some extent also in Spain and France, reforms are taking place in exchange for money from that Recovery Fund. That's in our best interest. I would find it interesting to look at how, in the coming period, we are not going to link money to reforms, but, for example, to link flexibility to reforms, as well as to shape further reform of the euro area. That's what we're going to talk about in the Cabinet. I think there are huge opportunities there. We can really learn from what we have now experienced. Then I, Chairman, come to economics and finance. Many different questions have been asked about this. Let me first answer some questions in the area of public debt. You can see that we are making a large number of investments, but at the same time we believe that you should do so while maintaining sound management of public finances. We're below 60% of government debt. In fact, that means that we are about 20% below Germany. We have that space now and that's because, when things were really bad and we had to intervene, we did that. As a result, we now have, after the Czech Republic, almost the fastest growing economy in Europe, with the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, except Poland and the Czech Republic. That gives us the financial space to make the necessary investments now and to address some very important problems in the field of education and safety, but also in the area of nitrogen and climate and some other issues. I am not going to list them all, because you know how to deal with them. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u132	I have a question for the Prime Minister about the debt ratio. What you're saying is true. It is now in order, because we are below 60%, but the Central Planning Bureau has made calculations showing that it may well increase after 2025. It has even done the prediction up to 2060: 90% of GDP. How do you view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u133	The arguments against this were also raised in the first term of the First Chamber. I agreed with those arguments. It's different arguments. They say, among other things, that the cuts in health care, at least the slowing down of the growth of healthcare expenditure, with a reference to the figure of 4 billion, is not in it. There's only one piece taken; it's just one particle. Another part is that it is said that the funds for nitrogen, 15 years, and climate, 10 years, then go through. But that is not the intention, of course. We are also going to ensure that these funds are legally guaranteed. We are coming to talk about this here too, so that they are actually limited in time. Then you really don't come up with this kind of numbers. Against the backdrop of public finances, a number of questions have also been asked about the purchasing power picture. We really have a difficult problem at the moment, namely that inflation is high in the Western world, in America but also in Europe. Of course, this has an impact on purchasing power. This has partly to do with rising energy prices, and partly to be seen separately. Some of them work on each other. You can't compensate for that endlessly. In the coming weeks and months, also towards the Spring Paper and the budget for next year, we will therefore have to look at how we deal with it in a sensible way. We're really gonna do our best for that. 3.2 billion has already been earmarked for rising energy prices. It is also important to look very closely at the distribution of burdens between different groups. I see Mrs Faber walking to the interrupting microphone, Mr President, but perhaps I can first deal with a few questions about purchasing power. I don't know if Mrs Faber has a limited number of interruptions, but maybe I'll help her by stacking them. There was a specific question about energy prices and the rising energy bill. In recent months, gas and electricity tariffs have risen sharply. This has a direct effect on the energy bill of many households. To this end, we have allocated 3.2 billion, including 6.2 billion directly. That is a very substantial package of measures. There is a scheme to make money available through municipalities for special assistance, for the people with the lowest incomes, and there is money to help vulnerable households with insulating measures. You try to use this big problem, by at least seeing something positive in it, namely encouraging people to isolate more quickly. Of course, that is not the answer to the rising energy bill, because in time it runs apart, but you must try to use that moment. Unfortunately. 'Cause we wouldn't have seen that, of course. The further development of energy prices is simply uncertain. We are monitoring developments very closely in the coming period. In spring, all the pluses and minuses will be considered in full and we will see how all of this interacts with each other and what we can do. This is about purchasing power development and energy prices, as we have already mentioned in the debate in the House of Representatives. The basic promise in the coalition agreement is that it should be possible in width to show a slightly positive purchasing power image. Of course, we want to hold on to that for as long as possible, but I cannot give any guarantees about it now. We really need to see what's going on first. This brings me straight to the issue of pensions. For example, there was the question: can we not index earlier? I understand the desire to be able to raise supplementary pensions for older people earlier than is currently the case, as Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Raven have said here, of course very well. However, this also applies, of course, to the need to do it wisely. It is foreseen that we will have the legislation for this new pension system in the spring, I say. This also means that pensions can rise more quickly in this new system. But I really don't think this is wise. I think that Van Rooijen and I have had that debate since 1973. I was 6 years old then, but he's been having that debate here for a very long time. Together, we've been doing that for about 10 years. It's not wise to rush that now. Why isn't that wise? That is because, in the end, you also undermine solidarity in the system. The fact is that not indexing now affects the active, but ultimately it raises the question of whether there is enough in the pot for the generations that still have to retire. We therefore need to find a proper balance. The Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, Schouten, who is also present today, is in the process of providing legislation so that these supplementary pensions can rise more quickly from this year on. Again, the expectation is that this legislation, or this AMvB, I must say, will be able to enter into force on 1 July. Then pension funds can also index earlier. Of course, it depends on the financial position of the fund whether it can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u134	I will come back to energy prices. The Prime Minister was so quick. Energy prices are rising due to a number of factors. It seems to me that the government is taking part in this after all. We've switched from coal plants to gas plants. That is also a driver of the gas price. Then we move on to new energy, which is, in fact, relatively much and much more expensive. Then we have all these supplements, which, of course, all work through. If the energy price goes up, it also works in the production of all services and all products. So that's just gonna work. In this case, of course, the government has a strong hand in this. We can come up with all kinds of compensation arrangements, but then we can do much better than just lower the energy tax and the SDE taxes. 680 million went out of the SDE pot itself to control the corona crisis. In fact, there was too much money in that SDE-pot, because that could very easily be transferred.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u135	Of course, it's gonna be pants-pocket-pocket-pocket discussions very soon. I understand what Mrs Faber is saying. However, I do not think that is the best way forward. Why is that? We are currently seeing the energy bill rise very rapidly throughout the world. The gas price is just very high. That's an international prize. We cannot establish this in the Netherlands. It's internationally determined. It is, of course, linked to the price of oil. So that has a huge impact on that price worldwide. I was with Hoekstra two weeks ago in Moldova. There goes from the monthly income of €500 to €150 to the energy or electricity bill. Those are, of course, terrible amounts. That's a third. Then you'll have to pay the rent. Let alone have something to eat. Moldova is the poorest country in Europe, but this is very intense. This affects everyone, including the Netherlands. It is all about this in the European Union, no matter who I am talking about. So everyone's really working on that. This is not due to a number of specific Dutch interventions in the climate approach or the energy mix. That's not why we have such a high energy bill. That really has to do with the high gas price.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u136	But if I look at my own energy bill, for example, I see that half of it consists of levies. That certainly has influence. Surely the Prime Minister can't deny that the government has no influence on that? You can't do that, can you? Of course, the gas price is rising. I admit that. But we have also increased the demand for gas in the Netherlands by switching to more gas plants. We also need them for those windmills, because otherwise we will not be able to cope with all the fluctuations on the grid. Surely you cannot deny that as a government you have an influence on the taxes and the SDE taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u137	Sure. We certainly have an influence on that. That's absolutely true. Of course, they are also linked to the gas price. At the same time, this is why we are now compensating the energy bill for EUR 3.2 billion. That's a lot. From my mind, this is between €400 and €500 per family, or per household. Those are huge amounts of money. At the time we did that, it was about a half cut in the then expected increase in the energy bill. So it's not like we're doing nothing. If you were to delete some of those other posts, it is not, of course, that this would not have required the decline in state revenue. You'll need it, partly for compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u138	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u139	Wouldn't the Prime Minister just want to cut or cut the charges? Isn't that much easier than compensating? Then it'll just benefit everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u140	It is now designed so that everyone has that advantage, so the 3.2 billion is designed so that it really concerns everyone. The people with the lowest incomes that we could hardly reach, we have reached extra through the special assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u141	The Prime Minister went into pensions. He also mentioned the general measure of governance that is coming. He acknowledges that there are two conditions in this general measure of governance, namely that you must have a policy coverage rate of 105% and that the pension fund should actually decide to move to the new system, the famous and notorious "entry." I see the Prime Minister nodding that these two points are correct. The large four pension funds................................................................................................................................................................ That's what chops it up. So that indexing isn't going to happen this year, via that AMvB. That is why I am asking for pensions to be indexed by 5% in an emergency pension scheme for young and old. This cost the pension funds 2% coverage rate and its effect is 0.2% interest rate increase. It is easy for the funds to suffer, and Mr Kaag is left with 700 million in structural terms. My question is whether this will be considered, because the AMvB will become a pacifier, as will the elderly discount on the AOW decoupling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u142	No, I'd say that's a really irresponsible policy. We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u143	You're acting like I was asking an irresponsible question, like, where did you get that from?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u144	I think that's very fair. In all friendship, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u145	Yeah, in all friendship, I understand that, but that's not gonna do me any good. I'm not getting an answer and you're just saying it's irresponsible. Can you explain to me the following? If you say: there will be an AMvB and then there will be indexed this year, and if I explain to you and you nod that this will not happen under two strict conditions, then I ask you for young and old: index! Well, maybe a little less than 5%. It costs nothing to the State and pension funds can easily suffer, because anyway the pot is against the 2,000 billion. It's only because of the calculus rate that the coverage rate is so low. What is against finally applying an indexing for young and old, after there has been since 2008... In 2008, my ABP pension went into effect. I've been standing still for 13, 14 years. And I'm not talking about me, but people with a small pension, the people in care, all with a pension of €5,000 or €6,000. So they've already lost a quarter. That is €1,500 per year, every year, which they have not received as an increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u146	Your question is clear, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u147	You have to do something about that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u148	The role of the public authorities is to ensure through the financial review framework that pension funds can live up to what they promise, not only for the pensioners of today and the active ones, who also benefit from indexation, but also for those who still have to benefit from their pensions. This whole new pension system has been developed in order to change the form of those promises in such a way that they can also be indexed earlier. But there are still strict conditions that these pension funds will have to meet before they do. Because if you don't, you run the risk of draining out those jars and that, at the moment that younger generations are also in prison to be fed, there's no food left in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u149	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u150	That mantra, that frame that the elderly were eating out of the pot, I've been hearing it for years now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u151	No, not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u152	In 2008 there was 700 billion in the pot and now 2,000 billion. The pot has tripled. The yields were on average 8%, 9%, at a rate of 0%. So there's plenty of money. If you increase the calculation rate by 1% alone, the coverage rate increases by 20%. Then there can be much indexing for everyone, for young and old. And we're sticking to that fictitious accounting rate. The effective efficiency is off the table. I predict that this fictitious interest rate will have to be paid, perhaps at the Court in Luxembourg. But it is absolutely reasonable that if there has been no indexing for 15 years and pensioners, but also young people, a great deal of indexing is missing from pensioners, and that is why we are taking a step. That is the best way, Prime Minister Rutte, to improve the purchasing power of the elderly and young people, but above all of the elderly in cash. Then you do not have to compensate for this by means of tax measures, not even for the elderly. Increase pensions and Minister Kaag still leaves to continue to carry the AOW link.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u153	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u154	Saying yes to that question leads to an election victory in the municipal elections for the four coalition parties. So I can't wait, but I'm not gonna do it because I don't think it's wise. Why don't I think it's wise? Because those pensions aren't ours. They belong to employers and employees. The government must only ensure through the Pension Act, the financial review framework, the calculation rate and all agreements that whatever pension funds commit to happens. You mention two things. First of all, you say that that pot of money has grown that way. We've talked about it a lot. The obligations have also grown; they have grown enormously. You have to say that, so you have to tell the whole story. I don't hear that second half. Secondly, I think it is very sensible that we do not record the rate of calculation politically in the First or in the Second Chamber or in the Cabinet, because then politicians might think: elections are coming, I'm going to adjust the rate of calculation a bit. We do this as objectively as possible on the basis of long-term expectations. That's really crucial. That is why we have the strongest pension system in the world. I would like to give everyone as soon as possible indexing, myself as well, because also the active ones are not indexed. They don't notice, because that happens a little bit undercover because you get your normal salary. But the pension fund built up by workers is also not indexed. So it affects us all and certainly also pensioners who are directly dependent on that benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u155	Thank you. No, Mr. Van Rooijen. I've had you talk for three long hours. I'm going to see Mr. Van Kesteren or Mr. Raven. Mr. Raven, you were before? Go ahead on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u156	The Prime Minister said in an interim: we cannot compensate endlessly. I said in my contribution that it is very important that we ensure that what has gone wrong in the past due to government failure is resolved. I have called you the compensation cabinet with five important examples. Basically, you need to get the trust back in the government. You have to compensate for that, among other things. Of course we don't have to compensate for everything 100%, but what is your line in that? Let me continue with the example of the indexations for pensions over the past 13 years. When we start restructuring the Pension Act, we must first ensure that there is confidence. There are 3.5 million people who no longer have confidence...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u157	Mr. Raven, what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u158	The question is how we can regain confidence in relation to the compensations, which the Prime Minister says "do not compensate endlessly."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u159	When it comes to pensions, I think that route is really unwise. I actually just gave the answer. Those pensions don't belong to Mr. Raven and me. They're not national politics. They belong to the employers and employees. We must ensure that what they agree on is also done fairly for the participants. To this end, we have a Pension Act, a financial review framework, a calculation rate and so on. So I really don't think that's wise. The route initiated by Koolmees together with social partners and now, in the Pension Act or in an approximation of legislation, countries go through Schouten, I find a sensible and prudent way forward. That's also gonna give you a faster view of indexing. But I do not feel guilty about the fact that there has not been indexed in recent years. The government has no responsibility for this, other than ensuring that the promises are kept. Then there is Mr Raven's broader question. I have said it many times: each cabinet is also faced with problems that have arisen in the past, partly because of its own mistakes. The childcare allowance is, of course, a major mistake that has not been made aware, but it has been created. You've got a decent way to fix it. We're working really hard on that. The same applies, of course, to gas extraction in Groningen, since 1963. We know by now that there have been some since the nineties, I believe, indications that gas extraction can lead to seismic activity. Since Huizinge, the earthquake in 2012, that has, of course, come very sharply on the retina. Then as a government you have to make sure that you do that properly and I really stand for that, but they are different files. I really think that pensions are a different issue from childcare or the earthquakes in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u160	The Prime Minister is now making it sound like the government has nothing to say about it. We are also proposing frameworks such as the indexation of pensions. So you cannot say: I am going to sit back, it is the workers' and employers' organisations that are responsible. It's not like that. It is a collusion of the government with employers and employees and also with pension fund administrations. If the course is to restore the confidence of the population and, in this case, of pensioners in order to be able to start a clean slate again in the future, then you must do something about indexation, which has not been paid out in the past 13 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u161	I really do disagree with Mr Raven on this point. But that's okay, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? I also agreed with him when he spoke about a number of other things. That's what I just mentioned: Groningen, child care allowance. I really disagree with him on this. Why is that? Look, there's a pension obligation in the Netherlands. People are required to be affiliated to pension funds. This means that we have tight legislation, so that pension funds also keep what they promise and do not make promises that they cannot keep. This means that the risks are fairly divided between generations, so that young people who are putting in now keep an eye on a pension and so that people who are retired get a decent pension. The changes in the system that are now going into pension legislation are well agreed with the political and social partners. I believe that we have made very strict agreements to extend it to the future, but there is no need for compensation over the past 13 years because the government would have failed. That is true in the areas he mentioned earlier. The government has a great responsibility for this, but I do not feel it in the area of pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u162	Finally, Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u163	Finally. With all due respect, you're making it sound like the government has nothing to say about it. It's not like that. Over the past 13 years, it has 0.11% of the total! It is considered that there is no index. You could look with the partners at variants with which you can at least come to some kind of compensation. I call on the Cabinet and the Minister to at least show a somewhat more active role on that point than what you are telling us here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u164	I am really looking for what Mr Raven and I disagree about. I believe that the whole approach taken by the previous cabinet to create a new pension system and new pension legislation has been precisely to look at employers and employees to see how, by making a different kind of promise to the active and pensioners, we could ensure that they are indexed sooner and more quickly. This now needs to be put in place in the new pension system. In the end, it is important that the public authorities continue to make good use of this in legislation and frameworks. That is our job, because otherwise a pension fund administration could say that it is now going to index at the expense of younger generations. They have to invest in that pension fund through the obligation and cannot therefore say: I am going to save somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u165	Let me say this for the exchange of views in the future. My group does not share the Prime Minister's view that there could be no indexing. We believe that the funds have sufficient resources for the current situation and for the future. We've talked a lot about that in this house. I think we can do all that. I also think that the AMvB, which is currently in preparation, does not provide sufficient room for those who do not have the pensions indexed. I am committed to making that point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u166	Then we look forward to the discussions on this with Mr Van Kesteren's group. If he can convince us that we're too tight on certain points, then we're gladly acknowledged that. We do not have that feeling at the moment, so that is what we need to discuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u167	Mr. Van Rooijen, at any other point than just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u168	Following on from what Mr Van Kersteren says about the AMvB. You say that we are not politically concerned with pensions, but a motion has been adopted in the House of Representatives. It has led to a concept-AMvB. It comes from the Lower House via the Van Dijk motion. Then you can't say here: that's not what we're talking about? My proposal, therefore, is that instead of the AMvB, which has no effect because of the two tough conditions that are not met by the large funds, we should at least come up with an emergency response. In other words, if you have accepted the AMvB policy, then my proposal can also be accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u169	In the end, I say to Mr Van Rooijen, in all these cases, it is a weighting between how great the risks are of giving an earlier view of indexation and the longer-term obligation that the fund has to all generations. We always have to find a good balance in that. I think that debate should take place. I assume the AMvB will at least be placed in the Lower House, and also in the Upper Chamber, won't it? I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u170	Yeah, sure. He's with the Council of State now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u171	At the Council of State. Which may also be here... I don't know. We're all gonna see that. But we have to have that discussion with each other. That debate will in any case take place with Mr Van Kesteren's group in the House of Representatives. But in the end, of course, it's always a weighting. How do you weigh the risk? Of course, you can talk to each other about that. I agree with Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u172	My point was this. Mr Van Kesteren made it quite clear; I would like to support and repeat that. The House of Representatives considers that, in anticipation of a possible new system, something should be done about the indexation. The House of Representatives has accepted that. That motion has been converted into a commitment by the former Secretary of State for Social Affairs to create an AMvB for that purpose. Then it is clear that politics can determine whether or not to index. If that AMvB does not work because the policy coverage rate of 105 is not reached and you do not decide to board, a form of blackmail, then we say: instead of doing something that does work, come up with an emergency allowance and raise pensions for young and old by a few percent. The Minister of Finance is also paying extra money for this. You're not shorting anyone. The pot is now three times bigger and the elderly and young people have not been indexed at all for 15 years, just because of that stupid calculation rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u173	You're repeating yourself now, Mr. Van Rooijen. Finally, I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u174	That's a repeat of arguments. I would then feel obliged to repeat that these increased growth pots are also subject to increased obligations, because there are also some things to be said about the low interest rates and the risks that they pose. I also agree with Van Rooijen: in the end it is not very black and white. The particular fact is that the government sets rules for the second pillar, so that agreements are also respected, but those pots are ultimately owned by employers and employees. The question you need to ask is: do we succeed in our role of custodian, of administrator of this great legacy, to properly divide the risks and benefits between all generations and all people? Because there is a pension obligation in the Netherlands. I think this is the key question. Inside you can definitely talk to each other about the exact size. I'm not denying that at all. That is, of course, a real point from Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u175	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen, because you are now beginning to repeat yourself and we do not have time for that. So one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u176	No, Mr President, I just got an answer to a question that counts as a simple answer, but fortunately Mr Raven was answered in detail. My point is that the general measure of governance is intended to enable indexing from the Lower House through the previous cabinet. But if that doesn't work, then the Prime Minister simply acknowledges that you can come up with an emergency provision from politics to ensure that the indexation, which the House of Representatives and I think this Chamber also wants, doesn't it come about? Would you answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u177	Technically, I suppose. You have different legal routes to arrange that. The question isn't whether that legal route is there. The question is: what is the sensible route? That's what you have to talk to each other about. The generic idea would then be to increase 5% because it would provide money for the state treasury and, of course, for pensioners. Yeah, that's gonna pay for the state's cash because tight assets are released and then taxed on them. This will bring an extra benefit to the state treasury. But these are, of course, tax revenues that have been brought forward. Mr Van Rooijen knows that; I also see him smiling, a debate trick. In addition, he has a real point, namely that there has been no indexing for a very long time. That is extremely acidic and serious for a lot of people. I think it is our joint task to always explain why we have the legislation and the frameworks we have. In my view, the new pension system could at least be expected to be indexed earlier. Mr. Chairman. I come to the AOW, about which a few questions have also been asked. It has already been said here and there: the coupling is fully maintained. We're just not linking up the wml to the AOW. So we don't do that on that one point. We have other methods to ensure that the elderly also benefit, including by increasing the tax reduction for older people. In January we also discussed this in detail in the Lower House. I hear similar arguments for and against this. There are, of course, a lot of concerns about the elderly, also in the light of inflation. That is why, in the coming weeks, we are going to look at the distribution of the burden between all these groups, on the basis of the CPB estimate in March: what exactly is the balance? I also said in the House of Representatives that we do not exclude instruments in advance. So all the instruments are on the table. We'll look into it as soon as we have a closer look at that issue. But with the more fundamental question about linking the AOW, the cabinet disagrees. It remains fully linked, but only on this one point of increasing the legal minimum wage we do not. You can think different about that. I have heard that very well, among other things from the two interpleans that are now coming forward. They look at that differently. But I think that the question in the coming weeks should be how to best reflect the issue of purchasing power. I made that commitment to the House of Representatives, so we are going to spend the next few weeks and months on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u178	This is a wonderful example of how to make a major political issue very small. "Well, let's take a look. The House of Representatives wants that, too. We're going to do something with that purchasing power." In my contribution, I indicated something about this. Mrs Ploumen, and Mrs Vos here today, have also said it flawlessly: what you take away cannot be repaired. I couldn't tell you better. If you structurally remove the right to link by not giving an additional increase in the minimum wage to the AOW as well, and by the way, to the assistance and other, then you decouple permanently and permanently. That means Mr Van Kesteren also acknowledged that in four or five years' time, if that minimum wage is increased by 7.5% in steps, the AOW goes from 70 to 65 for single people and from 50 to 46 for married people. That's final. There's nothing temporary about that. You have to admit that this was just a blunder. You also put it in brackets. Or maybe it was done by an official, but I can't imagine, because there were four negotiators. My question is: do you want to ensure that this AOW link, as indicated in the motion of the Labour Party and GroenLinks in the House of Representatives, has also been tabled by Mr Wilders? Because it's a right that's been around for 40 years. It's in the law, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u179	Your question is clear, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u180	...my question is whether you are willing to, as the minimum wage...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u181	You've already asked your question. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u182	I have just given the answer: that is not the intention of the cabinet. We do look in full width at the purchasing power picture. We do not exclude any instrument in advance. However, I would point out that the full linking of the AOW benefit to the increase in the wml costs a great deal of money. And even in the case of the one time non-transfer of the AOW to that increase in the wml, the AOW level is still higher than the social minimum. I think that's a relevant fact. Fortunately, the risk of poverty among older people is still very low by the AOW, also in comparison with other European countries. In addition, we also increase the tax old age discount by up to €376. This is a burden relief for older people of EUR 700 million. The full interconnecting would cost billions. Then I really think the next question is on the agenda. We are all kept here to make choices in scarcity. On the one hand, you want to achieve that political goal of the statutory minimum wage. I believe that this is also a broad living goal, for many parties here in the First Chamber but also broad in politics. But you also know that the full transfer to the AOW entails huge amounts of money. And even now, without link, this AOW is above the social minimum. Then the question really is whether that would be wisely spent billions, or whether you should see if you can do it in another way. We have put forward proposals for this, which we are now reviewing in the light of purchasing power developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u183	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u184	I call Mr Van Rooijen. You're gonna have to press the button again so we can hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u185	I said, I'm really stunned. The Prime Minister said about pensions: we are not talking about that, but it is pathetic that they are not indexed. And now he says at the AOW: the minimum wage is going up and there is a link, but we don't have the money to give those AOWs that too. That's outrageous, isn't it? The government says it's not about pensions. She's about the AOW, but she doesn't do anything about it. He says there's no money for it. I have pointed out that 3 billion tax cuts have been made for the workers, but there is not more than 2 billion available for the AOWs. I would suggest that this increase should be reduced from EUR 3 billion to EUR 1 billion for workers and that the AOW link should be reduced to EUR 2 billion. Then it's done. He says he doesn't have any money for that, but he does have money for the workers. It's also an anti-elderly cabinet that only does something for the workers, namely 3 billion, but not 2 billion for the AOWs. It's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u186	Your question is clear. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u187	In the best tradition of Dutch Cabinets, the cabinet also tries to see how, while we make choices in scarcity, we keep a close eye on all interests, and also on those of the elderly. Also look at how much money we will spend on health care in the coming years. This is also aimed at people who will seek care at an older age, for example in the form of nursing and nursing care etc. I do not think that anyone in this cabinet can say that we do not have the elderly in the picture. Mr Van Rooijen does not have a monopoly on the elderly, I must tell him. So I'm really gonna leave that with him. In addition, I said that it is true that we are taking measures, at the expense of high amounts, to ensure that the elderly also benefit from what happens with the statutory minimum wage through an increase in the allowance for the elderly. The final question then is whether this complete link between the AOW and the WMM increase and the billions that it entails is a sensible expenditure. I think you have that to look at. That's driving. And to say: yes, it is the principle. The AOW costs 40 billion. It is one of the largest expenditure items in our budget, larger than education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u188	40, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u189	Yeah, 40. That's what I said. 40 billion. And that's fine. There are very good reasons for us to have set up the first pillar in the Netherlands in this way and that it is completely "Jorritsma" that said it, and others "sustaining prosperity" will continue in the future. But now we're gonna do something very special and raise the wml. I do believe that there are a lot of arguments for not doing so once on this point and for ensuring purchasing power in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u190	We'll talk about that later. Finally, I have the question about the elderly discount. I indicated this afternoon that the elderly discount is a pacifier. I have the tables with me, because they came in response to CDA questions in the Lower House. 814,000 elderly people did not receive an elderly discount or a full elderly discount in 2018. That's gonna be a million now, so one in three. The AOW's who have the most disadvantage of not pairing that 7.5% can't take that old-age discount and can't cash it. Do you recognize that at least you have to do something for them? You can't say that 7.5% isn't included for the AOW, but we're giving them an old-age discount. No, one in three AOWs doesn't get that discount because he doesn't pay taxes. Would you like to acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u191	The question is clear. Finally, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u192	Actually, that's right. There's definitely a silvering problem. It's terrible jargon that we share here, but I'll take the floor just for lack of a smarter term. There's a problem getting that money if you're simply not getting enough income. That is a real point. That's what we have to see. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u193	We have a question for the Prime Minister, apart from the AOW concerns, because in that we are joining Mr Van Rooijen, our AOW spokesperson, for a great deal. You have spent almost a year on the formation of this new cabinet. One point that has been covered in all these ambitious plans on climate, nitrogen and so on is tax reform. The whole of the Netherlands is anxious to reduce and simplify the income on labour and to simplify the whole system. Why has all this been handled in such a grocery-like way? Isn't that what you've been looking at for once? It can be much simpler and then the tax authorities can act as well. That is where everything is stuck; they can't even lower the VAT on fruit and vegetables. It would solve so many problems and it would also make it so much more transparent to work and undertake. You'll know what you're up to. For example, a much higher duty-free foot costs a lot of money, but now 100 billion is being spent on all kinds of funds, and you can ask yourself what will ever come back for that. This is a really missed opportunity. Why hasn't the cabinet been a little more ambitious in this respect? My question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u194	I understand that Mr Otten is not impressed by what we are doing about it. I think we're doing the right thing. I think there are a lot of elements in the coalition agreement for the system of the wage building and for income and taxes. In doing so, we are taking important steps, such as phasing out the surcharge system, with the rent surcharge as a priority. We are also looking at what we can do to further simplify the childcare allowance. The ambition is ultimately to get rid of these surcharges. That is a major reform, but with this cabinet we are trying to take a big step. But that is extremely difficult, because if you do this too roughly, this leads to an unacceptable leveling for even the most right-wing VVD. That is, of course, not socially acceptable. That must therefore be prudent. But we do a lot of things. I also think that the increase in wml is a very important reform, which has been imminent for a very long time. It directly affects people's income. A third discussion that we will still have to have, if this is about the balance between wealth tax and income tax, will touch on the point Mr Otten started with, namely that we have relatively high income taxes in the Netherlands. Could you put different accents on this in a different distribution between income taxes and capital taxes? We also have that debate to have. But we, as coalition parties, have said that we want to see what comes out of that ibo by the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u195	We can now drag everything in, like power tax and so on. We are not necessarily arguing for a higher capital tax. The problem is now in income tax. The purchasing power plans that the cabinet has passed on have already become obsolete. We've got an inflation rate of. what is it? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, We have exploding energy prices. Purchasing power is going down very much, especially for lower and middle incomes. I would therefore like to urge the Prime Minister not to keep a very contemplative story about all kinds of taxes, but especially that bottom, the low middle incomes, very quickly. Apparently, there's plenty of money. A new state loan was also issued today by Mrs Kaag, I saw, with 0.5% interest if I am not mistaken. The interest is rising, so it's a good thing it happened now. It was free a month ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u196	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u197	Why is this money not used to reduce the burden on everyone, especially on low and middle incomes? They need that very much now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u198	The fact that state loans are issued by the Treasury Agent is normal work. We must, of course, re-roll and finance our public debt. That's not even part of this discussion. Fortunately, public debt in the Netherlands is very manageable in relation to the overall state of the economy. In addition to what I have just said, we are giving another 3 billion to reduce the burden, especially for the groups mentioned by Mr Otten, namely those with a smaller grant and the middle groups. We are going to look very closely at how we are going to spend that money in a sensible way. There is another issue. With this very high inflation, the ambitions to increase purchasing power are really under pressure. That is what we, as cabinet, simply have to look at in the coming weeks towards the Spring Note. We really have to see that together. That is a complicated issue. But of course, that's not always easy to solve. I do not hear Mr Otten suggesting how he will solve this. Or he says forget about the climate and nitrogen funds. Moreover, this is one-off money and not structural money, so that would not be prudent financing. You need those funds because it's and-and. You have to make sure that the workers in the Netherlands have a reasonable income and that the tax burden is not too high, and at the same time you have to make sure that for future generations we solve some very serious social problems in education and the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u199	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u200	Well, "have no solutions." We have been presenting solutions here for three years. We say: look at the British model. There you will not tax the first €15,000. Then compensate for that at higher incomes. It simplifies the tax system. Then people can still make ends meet, which is not possible now, and it gives far less implementation problems at the Tax Office. That is really a direction we should be heading in. For example, in England, about 30 million people actually have no interference with the tax authorities, because they fall into that 0% rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u201	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u202	That should be the solution as far as we are concerned. We have been discussing this for years, including by means of motions, which have also been adopted in this Chamber. That we do not have any solutions is therefore far from my point of view. We do have those solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u203	It is true, of course, that a lot of people in the Netherlands do not pay income tax, but on the first part of the income social security contributions and that kind of thing. It is of course only a limited group that pays real serious income tax in the Netherlands, but it is still high and also high in the international comparison. If you were to fully implement Otten's proposal, I think it could be quite leveling. I don't know if he really wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u204	A little leveling with it seems our party of course fine. We are talking about transfers and figures, but I have made a whole speech about why the linking of the AOW is so very important to our society. A lot of middle-income people have a fear of falling. The Prime Minister says he's gonna talk about this. Is this consideration also included in the consultations they have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u205	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u206	The second point is also important. In the end, we're talking about whether it's affordable. It's affordable. We have here a wonderful plan of GroenLinks and the PvdA. It's been calculated, too. It retains both the purchasing power of the elderly and the purchasing power of those on benefits and those on the labour market. It's covered, too. I just heard Mr. Van Kesteren say he'd like to talk about it. The question to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is: are you going to take these plans seriously, especially as regards the linking of the AOW? Because it's affordable. We had it processed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u207	Again, there are no taboos. We have also said in the House of Representatives that we are looking at all the solutions in the context of the purchasing power picture. That's what I said in the House of Representatives. I do not want to give the impression that the cabinet is on its way to linking the statutory minimum wage to the AOW increase. We're not. There are no taboos. We're looking at everything, but that's not the preferred option. The reason I mentioned. No matter how you turn it, it costs billions, for a group that is still above the social minimum even after that complete transfer without that complete transfer. The question then is how best to spend those billions. I think it is a real discussion to have. I think it is best that if we have laid the foundations for this purchasing power picture for the coming years, also in the light of inflation and rising energy prices, we will look at all the options. We will also, of course, weigh up the fear of falling again. I do not want to give the impression that we are now the only one on the road to a complete maintenance of the link, even when it comes to that wml increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u208	I can't wait to see if that egg comes for Easter. I'm counting a little bit, too. In my view, there is a majority in Parliament to link it up for all kinds of substantive reasons, and that is also possible. So I'm very curious about the plans. And you have to deal with a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u209	That's true anyway. And then we have the luxury that the cabinet can basically count on 32 senators, if we get them all along. With the cabinet I was allowed to lead with the Labour Party, we only had 30, so in that sense we've already made two. But she is right: there are still far too few. And apart from that, we want broad support anyway, and then you should have a majority in the Senate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u210	I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I'm due to suspend for dinner break at 5:45 due to a number of commissions. I hope it falls at a convenient time, because if it doesn't, I'm gonna do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u211	I'm just gonna keep talking until you turn off the microphone. A lot of things have already been dealt with. Very briefly, we are going to see how we can do this tax reduction on fruit and vegetables from 9% to 0%. We're also looking at more adjustments. We are investigating whether a tax on sugary products is possible. It is not true, however, that the tax authorities could not implement a zero rate due to ICT problems. A zero rate is not new; certain goods and services are now included in the zero rate. It is therefore possible to place products in it. What remains, above all, a complicated issue is shaping and delimiting: what is vegetables and what is fruit? Then you think, "Well, I'm gonna help you with that," but it's very difficult in practice. For example, is a pot of pasta sauce vegetable or not? In short, this must be done very carefully. Secretary of State Van Rij is now opening all those jars of pasta sauce together with Maarten van Ooijen. They're gonna be working on it in the next few days to see what's possible and what's to fall under. Fortunately, it is not necessarily an ICT problem. At last, not once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u212	I am glad that the Prime Minister says that this reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables cannot be the problem. The only thing is that we have to look at the difference between a banana and a jar of baby food. Doesn't the Prime Minister recognise that there are ICT problems and human resources problems at the Tax Office that make the implementation of tax measures more difficult? You are being very skittish about it now, but I understand that the judge's ruling that fictitious interest rates should no longer be taxed has been followed by statements such as 'we do not have the people' and 'we do not have the ICT' to make that possible, so it will take time. The same applies to the reduction of taxes on fruit and vegetables. And it also applies to the sugar tax. The Prime Minister is very light-hearted about a problem that is very big in the Tax Administration. Unless he has a different opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u213	No, but I am glad that Mr Koffeman is coming to the interrupting microphone. I don't take it lightly at all. I was being light about the zero rate, because that problem is somewhere else. It's absolutely true. I think the IRS is one of the pearls in the crown of the government. Tens of thousands of people work and I was impressed by the quality of the people who work there last week during my work visit. And yes, at the same time, it is also a service with serious problems with regard to staff and ICT. That's what we're dealing with. Mr Koffeman is right about that. But I would also like to maintain here that it is a service where thousands, thousands, thousands of people work, where I personally and I think anyone who visits it would say: wow, it's nice that those people work for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u214	The Prime Minister can say that he is very proud of that service and that thousands of people work there, but he also knows that thousands of people are no longer working there, because with a golden handshake scheme gone away far more than planned and that the cost of it has become much higher than planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u215	Let me say, in the abstract of this issue, that Mr Koffeman has a point that is serious in the field of ICT and personnel. Then there were questions about poverty in the Netherlands, also in the Caribbean Netherlands. I think that the fact that there is a separate Minister for Poverty shows how important we think and look at this issue. Particular attention is paid to tackling child poverty, because a child who grows up in a family with poverty is not only affected by financial deficits, but also has other consequences, other disadvantages in life. We all know that. Poverty is more than having little money. That is why we want to halve the number of children growing up in poverty. Of course, we're just getting started. The coalition agreement is not a coalition agreement in the classic sense that everything has already been worked out. You have received the planning letter from the directors of Social Affairs and Employment. The cabinet will work with other ministries in a programme of Poverty Policy, including experts from outside the cabinet. It will further concreteise the approach to child poverty. That programme plan will be presented to the Lower House and the Upper Chamber for the summer. The SP rightly calls for attention to be paid to the problem of poverty in the Caribbean Netherlands. Poverty policy in the Caribbean Netherlands is an island task. The cabinet is working with public bodies to tackle child poverty there. Our goal is to improve the security of life of people living in the Caribbean Netherlands across the whole range. The same applies to children. That is why we are taking measures to make life more affordable there. We also provide further details on the re-evaluation of the social minimum in the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u216	My question to the Prime Minister is about child poverty. It is now stated in the coalition agreement that it will be halved within four years. A plan will be presented for the summer. Four years sounds very long. Let me draw a parallel with reducing CO emissions. This has been increased to 55% by 2030, but to be sure, we will make it 60%, because then we will reach 55%. My question is whether child poverty can do that too. The cabinet now says it's going to take four years. Wouldn't it be nice if that could happen within this cabinet period, namely within three years? If a plan is still being made towards the summer, can we look at whether there is an acceleration, so that it can be within this cabinet period and not another period of elections and deportation? That's my question. It is not a result obligation, it is an effort obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u217	Sure, as soon as possible, but I'm not gonna promise you that right now. Those four years are gonna be a big hit. We're gonna shape those plans now, and if we can speed them up, we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u218	I didn't mean to ask you to say that it could happen within three years...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u219	No, I understand. As you put it, I can say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u220	... but to make an effort to see if it can be done within this three-year cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u221	Yes, a maximum effort obligation. But right now, I've been very proud when it happens in four years. If you can do it faster, it's beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u222	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to put a question to the Prime Minister, who is more generally concerned with this subject, because it may not fit in. That is the question of how we can control your cabinet in execution for checkable purposes. The issue of reducing child poverty in three or four years or as soon as possible is one element. But that also applies to CO reduction and other things that go over the cubes. My question is: can the government come up with an implementation plan for the most important ambitions with concrete, manageable goals so that we can control that implementation? Several colleagues have spoken about this. I got to start with that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u223	Yeah, but not overwhelming, because that's gonna be too much bureaucracy. We are going to make sure that in the various policy letters that also come to the Upper House, we also show what the Milestones are. We do so as much as possible and wherever possible, whether climate, nitrogen or poverty reduction. But let's not make a Balkenende IV dashboard with traffic lights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u224	You don't have to do that either: traffic lights aren't, Balkenende IV isn't, and Rutte IV isn't. But I'd like one of those letters by department. There has also been a request for the integrality of governance. Maybe that's another subject. At the heart of the matter is that the main ambitions set out by the cabinet will be to ensure that intermediate steps and targets can be settled, so that we, as States-General and as Parliament, can monitor implementation. I'll take that as a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u225	Where that is absolutely possible, but again: I am a bit reluctant about Blair and the delivery unit. Next thing you know, you'll have a whole PR machine. Alexander Pechtold called it "prospecti with beautiful photos" in opposition times. I stole that term from him back then. As Rosenmöller puts it here, it's not in my irritation. We're just totally in agreement. That irritation is not Rosenmöller, but that was something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u226	I want to get rid of all the irritations about Blair and Pechtold. I just want us to make an appointment. I had nothing to do with Blair and Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u227	As you put it, we're gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u228	If we can agree to this for this cabinet for the most important policy areas, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u229	That's what we're gonna try, with maximum effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u230	This isn't an effort. It must be a promise that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u231	The commitment is that we will make maximum efforts. That sounds silly, but I can't tell you exactly what that is for every area right now. I can't overlook that, but I understand this wish. I understand it politically and administratively, and I want it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u232	I want to get away from the discussion of "2% Defence" and "we strive to do so." The commitment should be that there will be enforceable targets in the main areas so that we can address you as an auditor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u233	Yeah, that's obvious. Sure. I'm immediately thinking about all the things we're gonna have to do in the years to come, and whether this can be done anywhere. Especially with Hugo de Jonge, that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u234	Of course, I'm very inclined to steam on that 2%, but let's not. The Prime Minister was just talking about child poverty. I had asked another question about the non-indexation of family allowances. Are you gonna take it right away, or are you gonna get it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u235	It will come back later, but not in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u236	I hope so in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u237	I don't know so soon, but I think there's another motion. He's been accepted into the House of Representatives. There's just a bill. We await the vote on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u238	I have just indicated that this is above the market. I've asked if the government is willing to take that away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u239	No, we're just waiting to see what the First Chamber is gonna do with that. Mr. Chairman. Then the retirement economy of Klaas Knot. On Friday, in the press conference which I have the honour of giving after the Council of Ministers, I responded briefly. I said that it reminded me a little too much of the eighteenth century and merchants who had grown up Amsterdam and the Netherlands for three generations. With a bell of brandy in one hand and a cigar in the other hand they had their house built on the Vecht. I don't think you can say that about the Netherlands now. I think we're running really strong. There is an enormous amount of activity, with a record number of companies, record growth in industry, record low unemployment and record low deficits. In that respect, things are actually going very well. That does not alter the fact that we need to look very closely at the balance. Of course, Knot's right about that. I just mentioned that, too. For example, it is about the balance between income tax and wealth tax. That's what an ibo comes out of. We are also having these debates in the House of Representatives. The coalition agreement also contains a number of issues relating to the distribution of capital, which we are already addressing. I would also like to mention this connection with tax morals. It is, of course, very important. This is not related to the description "bracket Saab" by Mrs. Vos of the Labour Party. I think she's right. In the meantime moss also grows along the window frames. Paying taxes and good tax morals are a big asset in the Netherlands. The financing of our facilities, to which Mrs Vos rightly referred, is of great importance for the road network, education and so much more. I think that most people understand very well that they have to contribute to this and that they are also willing to contribute to these collective facilities. Annual research shows that tax morals vary a little from year to year. But in recent years it remains high with each target group and more or less the same. If people think the tax is unreasonable, they can, of course, object to it. I don't find anything wrong with that. And they can also look at ways not to pay more than they have to; of course that is also allowed. But in the event of an escape, the IRS will take action. Perhaps, Mr President, the questions that have been asked about box 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u240	Then I'm going to interrupt you, Prime Minister. As promised...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u241	And you agreed to that, so I'm gonna do it now. It's 5:45. I shall now suspend the sitting until 6:45 p.m. before dinner break and a number of committee meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u242	The next item is the continuation of the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u243	Mr President, I am getting away from two interruptions!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u244	Then you don't know Mrs. Vos. Mrs. Vos, Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u245	Because we were just at morality. You should have just told me a story about people paying taxes. But my question to the Prime Minister was in relation to his Saab. It is not tax avoidance, it is tax planning, so what just within the borders of the law is not allowed to pay taxes. I was curious to see what the Prime Minister would say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u246	Tax evasion is prohibited in any case and tax avoidance we try to burn down legislation in every possible way. But under tax law, you can use deductions and deduct donations, for example. I'm not gonna subtract my gifts myself, but you've got people jerking off gifts, and you can. But I find it, frankly, a little complicated and I'm not expert enough either. You should actually ask Marnix van Rij, the Secretary of State for Finance. But if tax planning means tax avoidance or, worse still, tax evasion, that is obviously not possible. It is a new term I do know, but I do not know whether we should condemn it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u247	We are really talking about something other than subtracting gifts, because that also has a purpose. It's all about shifting debts between e.g. It's all right and you can burn everything up, but a moral judgment on this, I see that the Minister of Finance might want to say something about that too. You reduce it to the subtraction of gifts, but it is about very creative accounting and using all kinds of experts to pay as little tax as possible. It's about that behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u248	Look, I think you should just pay your taxes in this country. We must ensure that the tax burden remains low and then everyone must pay their taxes properly. There are deductions, we can't dodge anyway and we try to avoid scorching. Soon you'll come to improper use. Then it becomes abuse and then it's ducking and it's not allowed. So I'm just trying to stop us all from introducing new terms. But I think we're on the same page. Now let's take a positive look. You just pay your taxes decently and you're not gonna twist into all kinds of corners to minimize the tax return. You just don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u249	Then I hope that we will also be able to find each other in simplifying and improving the tax system so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u250	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u251	So that behavior can't continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u252	And if it's simplified, it'll help the tax authorities implement it. Some things have been said about box 3. You know that's a complicated issue. It also has potentially significant budgetary and, moreover, implementing implications. We are making a very precise assessment of the issue in order to arrive at an overall assessment, including in the context of the spring decision-making process. It returns to the Lower House and, I presume, also in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u253	The question is: are all the options open or do you say, with some spokesmen here, that this solution must be found within box 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u254	Van Rij said in the debate what the budgetary rules are like. As a general rule, cover is sought as much as possible with the same type of load. So that leaves a little room. I would like to echo his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u255	And then scorch that space as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u256	But that's a political discussion. I don't want to anticipate that. That doesn't make much sense. We are going to try to resolve this properly in the coalition in a good atmosphere. That's what we're gonna figure out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u257	Is there a difference of opinion within the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u258	No, not yet, but you never know. If we agreed on everything right away, we'd never have to meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u259	No, I don't mean to say that, but it's obvious that if you have a problem in box 3, you solve it in box 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u260	And that is why I think Van Rij's statement is a sensible one. I agree with him. The budgetary rules are clear: as a rule, coverage is often sought as much as possible with the same type of tax. Mr. Chairman. Then there are questions about the labour market. But I see Mr Rosenmöller has an afterburner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u261	Well, it's not a afterburner. It is actually a different subject. That's about the capital tax as such, so to speak. The Labour Party and we in the House of Representatives have put forward a proposal for this. Mr Van Kesteren has responded in a sympathetic way. Could his words be yours? Then we're one step closer. Then you say: it is a strong plan in itself and I would like to talk more about the percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u262	I can't make such far-reaching statements on behalf of the coalition. We need to talk about this first as a cabinet. Van Kersteren can, of course, go further in this respect from his political party. I am standing here on behalf of the four parties, and we just have to have that discussion, about the balance and also about how we look at the ibo that still needs to come out. So we're going to weigh all these things together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u263	Yeah, but that ibo's gonna be a long time. I am not going to repeat the debate you had with Klaver and others in the House of Representatives about this. But can I ask you to speed things up in this area? You now know how the CDA Senate Group stands in it. There is simply social displeasure about this. That's what this is about. If you turn off that social antenna, you know that something must and will happen with respect to the power load. You will have to take the lead in this. We have made a proposal. The question to the cabinet is: come with a quick response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u264	Yeah, we're really trying that whole thing... That is not necessarily responding to the proposals of GroenLinks and the Labour Party. Of course, we will also develop our own ideas. But of course the thoughts that live in the circle of GroenLinks and the Labour Party are involved. We always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u265	I was just looking for that addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u266	Of course they will be involved. That's obvious. We are looking at all the political forces that come up with constructive proposals, and I regard this as a constructive proposal. I do not yet give a political weighting, because I cannot do that on behalf of the coalition. Mr. Chairman. The question of the labour market has been asked: how do we ensure that we can implement the plans and train as many people as possible? That was a question from the circle of the Christian Union. Of course, we have great ambitions and there are great societal challenges to solve. This means that, in the coming period, we must also look very closely at the paths of growth and how this relates to the shortage in the labour market. We do not see this as an additional problem, but we are gradually becoming one of the main problems. Well, "problems," let's be glad that unemployment is so low, but that creates new problems. Of course, there are many existing instruments for matching supply and demand in the labour market. We are also making extra funds available for this. We are also looking at the whole labour market infrastructure. Developing a lifelong life is involved. Of course, Dennis Wiersma spoke in his previous job as Secretary of State for SZW about how to take a short-term approach to tighter employment rates for people who are still on the sidelines. We know that some of the people in the WW and in the assistance would like to get started. All this is now being worked out in the action plans. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is sending a letter on this subject this spring. The week after that, the execution starts, because we feel the urgency with each other. The coalition agreement also has a whole series of proposals on how to deal with them. I won't name them all. We are also going to use the existing instruments for this, but I agree that, for a successful implementation, we may have to face this as a kind of key aspect. Mrs Vos asked the question about false self-employment. I very much understand that question. We do want to take steps in the coming period: a more level playing field for all workers in the field of taxation and social security, more clarity about the nature of the employment relationship and adequate enforcement of false self-employment. This approach is, of course, aimed not only at the self-employed but also at the clients in terms of enforcement. I think that's what Mrs. Fox said, too. This is, of course, also linked to the wider issues surrounding the labour market. We also want to include the SER-NLT advice. That concerns the Borstlap Committee. They are a guide to the establishment of the labour market of the future. I recognize this point very much and this is what you want to do with each other... Nothing at all against zzp'ers There are a lot of people who are very happy to work like this, but we really want to take that form of bogus self-employment seriously, also in consultation with you. We haven't been able to do that so far. Then there was a question about the corona debt problem among entrepreneurs. Mrs Jorritsma asked that question. We have an eye for that. Where the government is the creditor, we try to be as generous as possible. Entrepreneurs, for example, have a lot of time to repay a accumulated government debt resulting from corona. At the same time, we can see that there are individual entrepreneurs who, despite the support measures, suffer from unsustainable business and personal debts. We are now looking at how we can best support them in finding solutions to this problem, with the cooperation of external parties such as the Chambers of Commerce. Individual entrepreneurs can of course also contact the municipality. We're talking to all these organizations. In this respect, it is important that, in the core, we want to make healthy companies with a high level of debt more viable by means of reorganisation agreements. The Tax Administration will, of course, also play a role in this and will temporarily settle for less revenue from reorganisation agreements, provided that other creditors also report on the losses. If you are going to float above this, you can actually see that the NOW, the TVL and the other regulations, the Tozo and the regulations via the Bbz, are working well in themselves, but that there are, for example, in the hospitality sector but also wider in the business sector, a lot of companies that have gradually been burned through their reserves. In this way we try to deal with it as best we can. Then, of course, study funding is a very sensitive issue, because we simply have to be honest: there is a group of people who, however you look at it party politics, are now still covered by the loan system. What's not gonna happen, I'm afraid, because it's gonna cost way too much money, I just have to be very honest about that, is that we're gonna compensate everyone. That would really cost billions and billions. To be honest, I find it really justifiable from the point of view of party political rationality that you say: listen, politics makes decisions; we have done so together, with broad support, and we have designed this lending system in such a way. We are now going back to another form of study funding, and that in turn has an impact on the groups that are coming. Of course, the groups covered by the loan system have to do with this. I fully understand and respect everyone who says: you have to make up for that. But that money isn't there. That really costs billions and billions. We have included in the coalition agreement an amount of 1 billion, a concession. That is not meant as compensation, but as compensation for those students. Talks are going on about that. That's very careful. Robbert Dijkgraaf, the minister of OCW, is having those talks. We also look at how a student debt relates to the mortgage. You can't just say: it's not taken into account when you apply for a mortgage, because that could lead to payment problems, and we're not helping young house-seekers with that either. But that debt is already considered much less heavily than other debts, consumer credit, for example. Also because of the whole social refund conditions of a study debt, the low interest rate, that after a number of years if there is any residual debt left. We are now also looking at this in consultation with the student associations, as stated in the coalition agreement, and Robbert Dijkgraaf is also working on how to take these student debts into the mortgage application in the future. That is what we are going to work out, of course from the point of view of responsible lending. Mr. Chairman. I have already replied to Mr Janssen's question on compensation for victims of the premium affair and for Groningen. His question was: shouldn't the content be guiding, not the budget? First of all, I would like to say once again that we have to note that parents and their children who have been injured in the child care allowance affair have been extremely wronged, and I would like to say that here too I have said that there are serious consequences for all facets of their lives. That is why we need generous compensation, but also emotional healing. It's more than just the money. Money is important, but I also see in a lot of conversations that I myself have, last week at the Tax Office together with Secretary of State Marnix van Rij, how important the fact of having that conversation is and that recognition is. This is without prejudice to the importance of the financial recompense and the return of the money they are entitled to. It's not compensation. That is what they themselves rightly say: 'It is not compensation; we get what is ours'. Then there is also a huge effort to restore the confidence of the Groningen people. I will come back to the earthquake problem separately later on, at the last chapter of my response to the parliamentary questions. That's where we'll take the lead on what's needed for recovery. The responsible State Secretary De Vries and Vijlbrief also hold intensive consultations with all concerned, and certainly also with the delegates. Providing recovery is a priority. That's leading. This means that it may always be necessary to decide on an additional financial contribution, but at the moment we think that the frameworks offer the scope that is needed. Otherwise, we'll look at it again. Mr President, in response to all the questions that have been asked about the heading of finance. In a moment, after the interruptions, I come to the chapter climate, energy and Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u267	Let's talk about college debts. In my view, it is widely shared here that the €1,000 compensation at least, it should not be called compensation, but compensation has really put students on the wrong track or has actually disappointed, because there is much more going on than just the money. There are many students with low or middle-income parents who have had to borrow a lot, have been able to do less besides their studies and have been able to develop less. The promise of better education and more teachers has not been fulfilled. On top of that, there are two years of digital education. If I compare this generation's study time with my own study time and probably the study time that the Prime Minister has had, then it has been very difficult. I understand that you don't just solve that with money, but it's a lot more than just mortgage debt and that $1,000. I am curious to see how wide Mr Dijkgraaf can investigate this and whether he will then have more resources, because this cannot be solved with a billion dollars. It's a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u268	It is not the case that there are more resources outside the means of government agreement or coalition agreement, but I think that these resources offer the opportunity here, also in connection with the money from the NPO, the National Education Programme. Maybe a few things. As we all know, the introduction of the loan system has not been accompanied by a reduction. The money we spend on the old scholarships has gone to education. Very fair: n=1. I know, again this weekend, but it's really wider. If I compare someone who is now studying history in Leiden with what I did in 1984, then it's really so much better now. He gets so much more lectures and so much more attention than I got. I survived it all. This was also precisely the aim: that extra investment would be made in the alpha and gamma studies. The beta studies in the Netherlands are of course very thorough and well anticipated. There too some extra money had to go, but I think most of it went to the HBO-trainings and the alpha- and gamma-studies. That's what really happened. We're not gonna get rid of those added resources again, so they're gonna stay there. This is an extra edition to reverse the loan system. Secondly, Mrs Vos is right to say that these two years of corona have naturally been hacked into it. By the way, in the NPO, in the National Education Programme, money is also reserved to compensate for some of this, but here are also quite other issues that you do not compensate for with money. An entire generation of students has not had a normal education for two years or large parts of those two years, has not tasted the lecture halls and has not been able to experience it as you would wish. Mrs. Vos is right about that, but you don't solve all that with money, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u269	No, unfortunately, we will never compensate for the social contacts and the lack of them, but you can do a lot more. There is now a plan for study vouchers. I find that very skinny and modestly designed. You can imagine that within the framework of the cabinet's plan for lifelong learning, you can say much more generously: you can also go back to college for a year, for example between jobs. I still think that with the 1 billion earmarked for this and the extra NPO money, you are not going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u270	I insist that what we spend extra is justified, but I would not like to add any more now. I agree with Mrs. Fox... Perhaps I should give her the undertaking, as I know from Robbert Dijkgraaf, that within the existing financial frameworks he is very broad with universities and colleges, but also with student associations and wider with students in general, looking at what is the best way to deal with them properly, given those financial frameworks and the problem that lies ahead. Only students might think "I'll get the difference between the old and the new system over the past seven, eight years completely reimbursed," but we're not gonna do that. I want to be honest about that, too. That's not the plan, but neither does Mrs. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u271	I got confused for a moment because the Prime Minister linked my question about the budget to Groningen, while it was meant for the extracurricular parents. Afterwards, he went on to discuss the parents of the children in his reply. I ask this very specifically, because I think a few weeks ago the Secretary of State in the House of Representatives said: yes, all those solutions, that generous compensation and that emotional healing, but it has to fit within the budget. It is a problem if the budget is leading and not the generous compensation needed to do justice to the unprecedented injustice. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u272	I get that. What really comes first is: what is needed for the recovery of the victims? There's no doubt about that; that's the priority. This does not mean that every good idea that costs a lot of money will always be implemented. That is not true either, because then of course there is no brake at all. What we do is really mental. That's how we're in. So if I say I need more money for the WRR at AZ or if others come up with nice spending plans, then the Minister of Finance says no. But we've agreed to look seriously at it when there's money for Groningen or the childcare allowance. That's in a slightly different category. But it is not that every good idea is always carried out. They're gonna see if it's a really good idea first. So you just have to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u273	I find it a little confusing, because I think the good idea is instrumental for doing justice to the generous compensation and the emotional healing. I do not know what kind of ideas I have to think about, but if compensation is to be made, I think that is primarily financial. People need to get back what they've paid too much and get what they're entitled to. That should not be budgeted, because that is just a matter of recovery payments, you would almost say. A budget should not be a guiding principle for this, so that what is there is to be divided out of the pot. Am I to understand that what has to be returned is going back anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u274	Whatever needs to be returned goes back. That is why we are not talking about compensation, but about giving back what they are entitled to. It's their own money that was taken from them. You just have to give that back. In addition, there are, of course, a lot of good ideas about children or any partners who may not be partners anymore at the moment. Actually, we all do that, too. For all these things very good programmes have been set up, but of course there are all kinds of ideas to do a lot of extra things for that. Then we keep watching: is the better not to become the enemy of the good? Then let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u275	Mr. Janssen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u276	Finally, Mr President. I am still a little confused, because the coalition agreement says 'beautiful compensation'. So this does not mean the money that people are entitled to and that they should get back anyway. Then I wonder what that compensation is, unless it is indeed a nice programme that they are still participating in. 'Cause then there's two things going on with me. I'd like to get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u277	I think Mr Janssen and I are in complete agreement. What's in his head is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u278	I'd like to go back to the loan system. Does the Prime Minister have any idea when the basic grant will be re-established and that problem will be resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u279	Oh, I'm gonna ask Minister Schouten if she remembers that. September 2024. Sometimes I have to dig in the head and then I have it! We'll do it together here; you can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u280	How convenient to have all these heads together, I say to the Prime Minister. How do we prevent the people who still have to deal with the old loan system in the coming period from falling into the same trap as those who...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u281	Yeah, they have something to do with that. That is, of course, the case with policy change. We have introduced the other system by a large parliamentary majority. We're gonna change that now. We'll do that as soon as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u282	The Prime Minister says that not every good idea is being implemented. I can understand that. But we are dealing with a very bad idea in the loan system that has been implemented. So there are students who have built up a debt of tens of thousands of euros. They have been promised that there will be no consequences for a mortgage. At the moment it turns out that there are students who have a debt of €50,000 or more and who get to hear from the bank: you don't get a mortgage, because you have a debt of €50,000. You can't solve that by saying to the Minister of Education: look within the available resources what more we can do for nice things for students. You should solve that with money and maybe by loosing debts. I think the Prime Minister is too easy to ignore the fact that there is a very bad generation. It cannot be satisfied with "the studies are much better today than they used to be in my time." I think the opposite is the case and many students will agree with that. I think it's too much of a long finger. I think you should compensate students who have a big debt with money and with over $1,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u283	I do not agree with Mr Koffeman. We make decisions as politics. The introduction of the loan system is a decision that we have taken by a large majority in both Chambers. Well, that's not the way it's gonna be. It's possible. It is always possible for politics to come back to different insights. Then you have to see how that relates to what was before and how you deal with the group that in the meantime had something to do with it. As far as mortgage applications are concerned, the cancellation of student debt is not the solution. I think the question is exactly what I just said. Robbert Dijkgraaf is watching how these student debts are taken into account in the mortgage application. That is in line with the coalition agreement, which also states that we need to look very closely at it. This is now being developed with all the experts. Then the aspect is raised to ensure that where it is possible and where it does not lead to irresponsible lending, after all, there can be quite a lot of other things going on for students to be able to buy a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u284	This irresponsible lending has already taken place. Students have been told: it's very good to take on a debt, because you're going to make money and pay off on pleasant terms. Students got into trouble. There is therefore irresponsible lending towards students. It is not clear to my group how the cabinet can justify the availability of 6 billion for a technically bankrupt company such as KLM, with a stock exchange value that is only half of the support the cabinet has given by now, and that only 1 billion is available for students. Are students less important or is the cultural sector less important than a technically bankrupt company like KLM? I know you can't compare everything with each other, but the cabinet spends billions very generously. It wants to buy farmers out for 25 billion, just to get started. A lot of people in the Netherlands wonder about this kind of money: but should the students be tipped off?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u285	It is, of course, also a political view of the loan system. The parties who then supported this thought that this was wise. I think there are also a lot of arguments as to why that was considered sensible. It is now being looked at differently. Now a political majority says: no, we want to go back to the basic grant, which, by the way, is meant to be introduced from the academic year 2023-2024. So that's sooner than I thought. Then to KLM and that equation. It's en-and. The cabinet has to do it all. We must ensure that there is enough money for education, but we must also ensure that our competitiveness remains strong and that companies are prepared to come and invest in this country. The Netherlands is located in the delta of Europe, with the Amsterdam harbour, Schiphol and the Rotterdam harbour. That's what you need to invest in. But it's en-and. It's not one thing, it's the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u286	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u287	Yeah, finally. That it is and-and is an understandable view. But at the time, the decision was considered sensible. Now we say with retroactive effect: it was an unwise decision. You can't leave that account with students. There's a lot of discussion about it, but let's say KLM is very important to our economy. Recent articles and books have been published that say it doesn't have that much impact on our economy at all, but well, you can differ on that. The decision on the loan system seemed good for a majority of Parliament. But the moment you want to reverse that decision, this means that you owe a debt of honor to the students who now owe €50,000 and have not been helped by €1,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u288	I think that really depends on the political dimension from which you look at this. I think that the decision to introduce the loan system is entirely honorable. That's what the coalition thinks. It is also completely honorable to decide with each other after a weighting to do it differently and to re-introduce the system of the basic grant. Of course you have to ask yourself how you deal with the people who had to deal with it in the meantime. I am not one of those who say that this must be fully compensated. This is inherent in political decision-making. Moreover, we are looking at the mortgages separately, as I said earlier. That's what Robbert Dijkgraaf is doing, in line with the coalition agreement, which says a few things about that. There are also pluses for this generation, I would add. Look what we're doing with the daycare, which is almost free. That also saves a lot if this group at some point would marry and have children. What they will have lost will also give a very different picture. So they're pluses and minuses, even for such a generation. Of course, we are now looking through a straw at one aspect. Mr President, then the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u289	Sorry. I have a very brief correction. I think the basic grant is, I understand, not in 2024 but already in 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u290	Yes, I've just corrected myself, but it's a good thing you mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u291	I didn't hear that. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u292	No, no problem at all. You're absolutely right: that's right. The basic grant will be introduced in the academic year 2023-2024. So that's a little better than I thought. Then there is the question of climate and energy. There are a lot of issues there. Mrs Huizinga has raised a number of points, as has others. Maybe I can say a few things about it. We really need to be able to make that sustainable change with each other in the coming period. This applies to households, to communities, to villages, to cities. That is why we want to ensure that everyone can participate, that the polluter pays, that no one is left behind. This also calls for a broad and smart use of public policies. Last Friday, Rob Jetten, the Minister for Climate and Energy, set out the first guidelines towards the House of Representatives and also towards the House of Representatives. Of course, that still has to be worked out, but it is a first roll of the main lines. Maybe I can highlight a few things there in response to a number of questions asked. The commitment in the context of a good industrial policy is to green companies in the Netherlands while maintaining regional employment. Where necessary, we must also cope with adverse regional effects of the transition. When it comes to houses, attention is paid to the position of tenants, precisely because they obviously have a limited scope for action when it comes to greening their own home. With different subsidy schemes we try to work on this. A question from Van Kesteren but also from others, was also: how do you ensure that the security of supply is not compromised, given all these climate targets? So how does the cabinet guarantee the security of that energy supply, also in the context of the energy transition? That seems to me to be a very relevant issue. Security of supply is really one of the preconditions. That's why Rob Jetten does both: Climate and Energy. So he's always looking at that supply security side. We keep our finger on the pulse through annual monitoring. As far as electricity is concerned, this is partly done at European level, through the European Resource Adequacy Assessment, which looks forward ten years. In the Netherlands TenneT does the same for electricity with its annual monitoring, which also looks forward ten years. Let me just say straight away: it does not give rise to any additional measures at the moment. But that can of course change, and then we will not hesitate to take it. In addition, gas really remains for a while separate from the Groningen gas, which, of course, we want to be part of the energy system as soon as possible, at least as a transition fuel, just like nuclear energy. That is why the cabinet continues to guarantee security of gas supply, with infrastructure, with connections to neighbouring countries and with import facilities for LNG. But also the mandatory filling levels of gas storage are important. In addition, it is of course also important whether this transition is effective and effective. On this point, I would like to say that the cabinet does not take a unilateral approach with little burden and much subsidy. The coalition agreement also includes many measures to secure, for example, climate objectives, such as pricing, standards and fiscal greening. If subsidies are granted, they must, of course, be effective and effective. This will also be monitored by the Minister for Climate and Energy, including in the elaboration of the entire policy programme and the climate fund. Because there really needs to be a robust mechanism around that climate fund, including for decision-making, governance. That is also what we agreed in the coalition agreement. We'll take both chambers with us, including the First Chamber. So there's gonna be a letter ahead of the Spring Note. And the cabinet will submit an institution law for both the climate fund and the nitrogen fund, so that full parliamentary scrutiny can be carried out. Mr. Chairman. Dan Shell and Tata.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u293	But first, Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u294	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u295	I have a question about the gas storage. I heard the Prime Minister talking about it. The Netherlands built a gas roundabout for 10 billion a few years ago. That is currently filled at an all-time low level, namely only 20% or something like that. It is also true that most of the gas contained in it is called cushion gas, which is necessary to maintain the pressure. That's Gazprom's property. So if it were to get cold now, we would have a very big problem, especially given the current supply problems with the gas price and so on. So why is there at this moment, in the middle of winter, such an absurdly low gas storage in that 10 or 12 billion-dollar gas roundabout? Isn't that strange? And it's also owned by the Russians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u296	I think this is a little too one-sided. This question was not put by Mr Otten in the first term. I know a lot, but I can't exactly cut this out of my head right now. So I'll come back to that in the second term. Unless I'm given the official in the first installment. Then I can do it sooner. But I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u297	I also have a question on the basis of this week's article in the NRC, in which the new climate minister of the cabinet, Mr Jetten, said that he no longer wants to hear that it should remain feasible and affordable in the area of climate policy. I was wondering whether it is indeed the cabinet position that we should no longer talk about feasible and affordable. The opposite is unfeasible and priceless. I'm very curious how the cabinet sees it now. Doesn't that have to be discussed anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u298	I didn't ask Rob Jetten, but he's language sensitive. It's all going to be those mantras: "unaffordable and unfeasible," "feasible and affordable." At some point, it's gonna be those pacifiers that everybody sucks and no flavor comes out of. I think it is the strength of this coalition agreement that we are doing a few things at the same time. We use the financial space that exists. Hence the huge investments in the climate fund. This will enable us, in conjunction with prices and in combination with 'polluter pays', to ensure that people and businesses in this country can live their lives as well as they can, and yet also achieve those climate objectives. That's what I think the profit is. I agree with the compromise contained in this coalition agreement. Moreover, it is not a compromise because D66 or the Christian Union said: we want to lower all costs to the citizens. Of course not. And the VVD and the CDA didn't say, "We're not gonna put costs anywhere." I think we have managed to find a really good balance in this. And those kind of terms? Yes, at a time when policy ensures that companies and people can experience it, provided they, of course, certainly the companies, do what is necessary and continue to run out for the wave of the ETS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u299	Because when I talk about this feasibility: in the previous coalition agreement, of the same parties, there was still talk about making a number of municipalities and residential areas without natural gas. It was experimented with. We do not see that in the agreement anymore, and I just heard in the contribution that the large-scale gas-free process has gone overboard, because it turned out to be unfeasible. So I'm curious if the moving insight is that that turned out to be unfeasible and that it's much more realistic not to be so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u300	Look, what's he gonna do? We need to make that transition with each other. We want to get rid of CO emissions by 2050, at least net. Gross CO emissions will, of course, be there, but we're trying to get them completely eliminated, so it's zero. That's the target of 2050. And in 2030, we have a very ambitious intermediate goal. Actually, we want to go to 60%, and at least to 55%. That is more than what Europe should strictly do. We would then have to go to about 52%: the European 55% would translate into 52% for us. So these are very ambitious goals. Of course, there's a thought behind that, too. If we do that, then you'll be pulling away so much innovation and so many jobs and jobs, that you'll be building a modern economy. That has a lot of wrinkle effects and lots of additional effects. Besides, you look at everything. We are not going to let things go completely; of course we are also going to learn lessons from Purmerend and from all kinds of other projects that turned around gasless neighborhoods, like the postcode roses. Of course we're going to put everything on the sieve: what did work and what didn't work? And then we're just going to work pragmatically. That's what he's gonna do, or he's not gonna do alone, but with the whole cabinet, for example with Hugo de Jonge when it comes to our homes and offices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u301	Finally, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u302	Feasible and affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u303	Yes, but again, the risk is... I've been doing this work for almost 12 years now and I sometimes get the criticism from my team that I've used some terms enough times and if I can't think of anything else. So I do agree with Jetten. I am simply pleased with the coalition agreement, which concludes that we are going to achieve these goals in a way that will ensure that we build a clean and modern country, with a modern economy and with many jobs, especially in those innovative sectors, and also in a way that allows people and companies to live and compete as best they can, so that these emissions do not go to other countries either. I could try to get Tata out of here, or Shell, but then they're gonna pollute somewhere else. I would prefer that they green up here and that we keep the jobs here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u304	The Prime Minister said that there is indeed a policy in which the polluter pays and prices are standardised and subsidised. I have disputed that on the basis of what I read in the coalition agreement and what I see in the billing of the planning agency. With regard to the burden picture, climate and the environment are said to have a number of shifts. On balance, it's minus 0.1 billion, 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u305	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u306	So that is not greening, but strictly speaking, financially, that is degreening. But it doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u307	No. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u308	Well, okay. As far as I am concerned, we do not need to have that discussion this evening, but could the Prime Minister reassure us and convince us otherwise? Can he say that there is indeed a policy in which the polluter pays, in which prices and standards are priced and then subsidised or invested?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u309	Look at these big industries as an example. What we are doing with the coalition agreement is helping them develop the green hydrogen backbone. This is partly a public investment. That's where we're gonna help them. That's completely unrelated to exactly how you set up the tax system. At the same time, these companies need to make incredibly substantial investments to keep running for the wave of increasing emissions tax. Those are huge investments. A company like Tata will lose a lot of money in the years to come not to be caught up by that wave. If they catch up with that wave, they'll have to pay. That is, of course, very stupid, because then they have not invested enough and they have lost the money to the government and we are going to redistribute it across all sectors where this type of investment has to take place. I think it's smart that you're helping it get going, as it were. That's what the companies want. Those big companies asked for it. They said, "Just lay down those standards." By the way, you do so as much European as possible, so that you do not get carbon leakage, that companies go to other countries. You want them to make the investments here. Then you'll take it into account when a company says, "I'm gonna replace that crack in two years and not this year; can I get anything from slack?" There is also room for such a type of negotiation, provided they do. This means that those big polluting industries, which cause about a third of Dutch CO emissions, stay here over the 14 megatons. I think that's important, too. A literal quote by Diederik Samsom is: 10,000 jobs at Tata.. or Hoogovens or whatever it was called.. are 10,000 very good reasons to keep that company in the Netherlands. But you don't want it to pollute here. You want it to be clean. So I think these companies really do realize what huge investments they are going to have to make. That is not necessarily a tax. They have to invest it in their company. If they don't, they're gonna get caught by that tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u310	Yeah, that's partly true, but the question is what the cabinet adds to it. Everything agreed with these custom arrangements dates back to the previous cabinet. My point is, show me. There is a great deal of unrest, including among economists and others about the policy to finally come to that greening, also given what the planning agency indicates in this respect. Then the burden of proof lies with the cabinet to make it clear that this is happening in the way you speak about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u311	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u312	I'd like to look forward to that evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u313	That will have to be demonstrated in practice. Then we must also be prepared to confront these companies with this very high-rise tax if they do not make these investments. The advantage of this is that you do not say in advance: you pollute, so we tax you. No, we say: you pollute; you have to stop doing so and if you do not, then you will get a very heavy tax. That means investing. That's what I think you're building that modern economy. Then we'll help them build that green hydrogen backbone, well, spine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u314	Let's get back to the practice of the big polluting companies. I have some experience with it, eight years in the Rotterdam Rijnmond area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u315	As a deputy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u316	As a deputy. Authorisation, supervision and enforcement. You see a lot in the big companies that a lot more should have happened by now, but they don't. You can also force that of your own motion. Companies are obliged to apply best available techniques, but are lax in them, always have an excuse for them. I'll say it in general, but that happens a lot. The minister says they have to stay ahead of the wave now. They've had to do it a long time ago. My concern is that what could already be required and what companies themselves are already doing will now be subsidised. Those are the best available techniques. When it comes to "best available techniques plus," we say: you do more than what you are required to do and we can contribute to that. My concern is that too many plans will end up with that fund that companies were already obliged to do. My question to the Prime Minister, whom I had already asked in the first term, was whether a plan should have looked at whether you should not have done this a long time ago. And if you do more than you should actually do, and what we can oblige you to do, then we come into the picture to help you with that, but not before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u317	I don't know if it's that black and white. Mr Janssen asked that question in his term. Look, what we need to do is to make a very precise coherent package of measures per sector, which monitor the following: what is subsidy? What's "prize"? What is standardisation? Otherwise, you're never gonna meet the 2030 targets. I fully agree that if the policy is with subsidies only, it is too non-binding. If it were subsidies on techniques in which they should have invested anyway, it would be too non-committal. At the same time, if you were only to set standards and price them alone, there is a risk that they will go away, because simply the burden will become too great for them. So you're gonna have to find a mix. Mr Janssen asks this and I am going to ask Rob Jetten to include this in his next report: how are you going to deal with companies that obviously have behind-the-clock investments and who now think "I can get that out of that pot" versus companies that want to invest in state-of-the-art technology and need extra funding for that? I understand that thought. I'm a little overwhelmed to answer that now in black and white. I admit that through this debate I am asking Jetten to comment on this in a subsequent report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u318	I am not even so much concerned with the precise effect, but with sharing the principle that what can be imposed is not subsidised, unless it is more than what you can impose and thereby achieve additional profits for the living environment. That would be very good. And not that we have a company like SABIC at Chemelot that says: we've been behind on investments for a long time. In fact, we have to replace everything, but that is too complicated with all the environmental rules. You know what? We're going to England. That is indeed a way of working which we should not lend ourselves to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u319	I was thinking about Dingeman this morning at the Wedding. That's my favorite comic next to Kamagurka, of course. In the Dingeman this morning you see all the big industrialists in the club sitting together with a bell cognac and saying: if not all those Urgenda's had gotten in the way, we could have greened the place a long time ago. And in the meantime, you can see pictures of Tata and Shell that are far from greening, which is extreme. I'm not gonna answer it in black and white right now. I ask Jetten to reflect on this point, because I do not know exactly where that limit is. I'm just not expert enough for that. I have sympathy for Mr. Janssen's thoughts, but I have to be careful not to make a mistake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u320	It is based on the idea that money is scarce and that we do not want to spend it unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u321	That appeals to me very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u322	That's what I thought. So I'm gonna close with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u323	I also know from my fellow party members that Mr Janssen was running this way in South Holland. That was very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u324	Prime Minister, I think you meant Minister Jetten with Rob Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u325	I meant Minister Jetten for Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u326	Thus in this house we speak to the rulers as a rule. Mr Schalk, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u327	This morning I had an interrupting debate with Mrs Jorritsma. At that time it was also about the climate targets set out in our Climate Law. I understood from her that we do not have to be very afraid of the legal consequences if we do not meet the climate targets. Does the Prime Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u328	No, so far, that law hasn't been so black and white. We want to make it binding now, not the 60%, but the 55%. We really want to legalize them in the law. We're still trying to figure out how we're gonna do this, but this has a heavier meaning that it's had so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u329	But right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u330	It doesn't say that in the current law. In the current Climate Act, it is a bit more non-binding. The ambition of the coalition agreement is to set the 55% target, and in fact we want 60% of the coalition agreement to be legally binding. That's what I'm saying, isn't it, Carola? It's gonna be real legislation. That is different from what Mrs Jorritsma said, but I think that Mrs was referring to the existing law. The 49% is not so hard laid down, but according to the coalition agreement we do want to do so in the adaptation of the Climate Act or how we are going to do it legally. In any case, it is becoming more legally binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u331	We have been to the Supreme Court by the President to get to know it, and that is where we have put this problem. On the contrary, the Supreme Court strongly warns against including these kinds of percentage targets in the law, because at the moment you don't make them, we're creating our own new Urgenda. Isn't the Prime Minister extremely concerned about that? Because we already have so many problems with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u332	It's 2022 now and we're going to spend 35 billion. Can we go get it now, please? We have a unique opportunity now. How often can a cabinet take office and spend so much money? It was brought a little hyperbolic by Mr. Otten "put 100 billion into funds," but maybe he's right, too, if you add it all up. I would like to say something about the CPB: that is then a one-off and limited time. This can now be done because we are incredibly good for it in financial and economic terms, in all respects. But let us also make sure that the money is used to achieve those goals, otherwise it will be very painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u333	The Prime Minister said a number of things about greening, sustainability and subsidies. He has mentioned large companies, such as Tata and Shell. Of course, they are big polluters and something has to be done there. From the Chamber has been asked: shouldn't that be what they themselves should have done? But it is striking that Tata does not pay a profit tax in the Netherlands, that Shell does not pay a profit tax in the Netherlands, that KLM flies tax-free, at least the kerosene still has tax-free, and that pilots massively evade the Dutch tax, facilitated by their employer. Then it's a bit of a question whether the hard-working Dutchman is allowed to appeal to your party, which pays the most tax and has the toughest tax burden, to pay for the cost of sustainability, while the big polluters, who do not pay a profit tax, receive billions of public support. Is that fair? Is that liberal? I do not think it is liberal at all to wave such heavy subsidies. In general, companies in liberal thinking must stop their own pants. That is not the case with these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u334	Mr Koffeman also said that Shell and Tata have an exception in terms of emissions. That's not true. Every company in the Netherlands must comply with the environmental rules and permit rules, even when it comes to emissions. We don't make exceptions. We have expert supervisors who have the task of overseeing this. If there are excesses, there will be intervention. That is the point Mr Koffeman made in his first term. Furthermore, companies in the Netherlands are subject to Dutch tax laws. With the dividend tax, we've lost Shell and Unilever. They don't pay them anymore, because they're in England now. That's what we wanted to do with each other. But it is also true that these companies in the Netherlands simply have to pay taxes in all kinds of other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u335	Of course, the same rules apply to Tata as to anyone else, but when it comes to emissions, those rules are not enforced at Tata. Tata's neighbors fight a tough fight against Tata's emissions and are faced with new rules every time. A 25 km limit, while most of the emissions go beyond the 25 km limit. Discharges in the North Sea, where there is no intervention and where the regulators do nothing about it. Those people in IJmuiden are at their wits' end. How can the Minister say that there is as much enforcement as anyone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u336	I also read the recent reports on Tata, but I cannot go into them now. I am not the authority to enforce the law there. Those are often the provinces or other bodies. The only thing I want to say here is that they do not make exceptions. It's not like an agency thinks: oh, it's Tata, so it doesn't have to comply with the law. There are no exceptions. The task of the expert supervisors is to ensure that this is done. I cannot comment on the incidents that have recently appeared in the media, because I simply do not have the information on them. It's up to the regulators. So I'm not going to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u337	Mr Koffeman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u338	In any case, I welcome the Prime Minister's undertaking that no exceptions will be made for Tata. I hope he will see to it that the supervisors intervene where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u339	The provinces are often the supervisory bodies. They do. They are democratically controlled. Where it is a national responsibility, it is a matter of the Empire. I'm not gonna do that personally. The ministers responsible will, of course, keep an eye on this. It's not like we're saying, oh, it's Tata, never mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u340	Following on from Mr Koffeman's question on Tata. Because we are also represented in the province of North Holland, I happen to know that there are a lot of problems there about the environmental aspects of Tata. I showed you the top ten. Tata's number one CO. You want to achieve very ambitious CO targets. That's your assignment. You imposed it on yourself. But then I would say: start with the biggest polluters. This is a company that's been a headache file in North Holland for a long time. The dividends go to India. We have a lot of problems here in the Netherlands. Last week there was another environmental scandal. Use several billions of Mr Jetten's climate fund to compensate Tata shareholders. The labour market is good now. Those people can find another job. Then we can build 50,000, 60,000 or maybe 80,000 homes there. Then the positive effects are for us. Now the profits go to India. If you do not want to do that with the big polluters, how do you intend to spend the 35 billion to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u342	I don't see that, because that will degenerate into some kind of randomness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u343	I think it is a remarkable position that Mr Otten has here. You'll just have to work at Tata and hear that here a senator is seriously suggesting to close the company and send it away, because "they'll find a job." Thousands and thousands of people work there. There are many more people working in the sub-contracting industries. That steel must continue to be produced. With that you would achieve that in the Netherlands I don't know how many families fall into the misery. You better hope they find a match on the labour market. At the moment there are 105 vacancies out of 100 unemployed, but that match is terribly difficult. And then all of a sudden it would work out here. So that's question one. So you're throwing thousands of potentially tens of thousands of families in trouble. Two is that the steel must continue to be produced. So what's Tata gonna do? Tata will then go to another country producing steel. What does that mean net for global CO2 emissions? Mr Otten mentioned the need to do bold things and to have the courage to run such a cabinet. If this is it, then I am not really impressed by it, I say very honestly to Mr Otten. I'd like to suggest something else. If you simply acknowledge that gas, steel, chlorine and plastic are needed in the world in the coming years and that oil needs to be refined, shouldn't it be our ambition to do this in a clean way, without releasing CO2 and where we are the country where this is possible? We have everything for that. Eight factors are needed for the establishment of this type of large process industries. We meet all eight conditions. In the Wiebes report from two years ago, this was taken on all sides. We now also have the money to build that green hydrogen backbone, so that in the coming years it is also possible for those companies to further green their production processes. Isn't that exciting? You're not gonna say, "Get out of here with that company, and we're gonna set up houses there?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u344	There's a huge need for homes, especially in the Randstad. The Prime Minister and his cabinet want to meet these ambitious climate goals. That's what all the money was spent on. We didn't think of that, but that's what you came up with. Our point is this. If that's what you want, I think there's better ways to do that than to take on everyone with a little cheese platter. I don't know how Jetten's gonna do that with his 35 billion. Then tackle the biggest polluter. The coal plants are state-of-the-art. These are a few years old, but they're all being demolished. The state-of-the-art coal plants are closed down in the Netherlands, because of the Act ban on coal in electricity production. The VVD has supported this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u345	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u346	That's where it all goes abroad. The dirty coal power stations in Eastern Europe remain open. China builds hundreds of more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u347	Mr. Otten, I'm giving you the opportunity to conclude your interruption with a brief question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u348	These state-of-the-art coal plants are five years old and need to be biomass-fired for a few more years. After that, the families who work there lose their lives, because the coal plants go abroad. Then what's the difference with what you just said about Tata? Again, we didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u349	They don't go abroad. If you close a coal plant here because you have other ways of producing electricity, then it is not that those coals are still being sprayed somewhere else because you still have to get the electricity here. You do that by providing your energy mix in a different way. You're gonna need those years for that, too. Mr Otten is right that this also has employment effects. Moreover, these are not the size of the closure of Tata. That is where I think you are talking about 8,500 people in direct employment and about once or twice that number in indirect employment. So that really has a huge impact. This leads to carbon leakage, so the removal of steel production to other countries where production is likely to be much more polluting. So I hope Tata's employees are listening. Well, at least they know this coalition isn't going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u350	Finally, Mr. Otten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u351	Again, I did not come up with these ambitious objectives. I'll tell the Prime Minister. I note that there is not very consistent action. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it intends to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u352	Mr Otten and I are used to having a robust debate. I appreciate that very much, but I can also honestly say that I think this proposal is rather 'novel', as the British would say. I would like to say this with caution, referring to that part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u353	Whatever applies to the Prime Minister also applies to Mr. Otten. We're talking about "Minister Jetten." Also about the other rulers we do not speak with just their last name. We certainly do not do that with their first name alone, and I would also like to say to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u354	Sorry, I'm gonna be a little more formal. Just a few more things about salading and external salading. That has to do with nitrogen duties. Without going into all the details now, also in view of the somewhat advanced hour: external netting is a useful tool to enable nature permits and at the same time to achieve nitrogen reduction. In doing so, an initiator uses authorised nitrogen space that has been released elsewhere for the realisation of his own project. That's not meant to look up the edges. In the case of a transaction, the recipient party may use 70% of the nitrogen emission for its initiative. The rest goes to nature. In addition, it is necessary to justify the appropriate measures taken by the province and the Empire to strengthen and improve nature. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can answer all the Koffeman questions. Then perhaps Mr Koffeman will be able to sweep the floor with me in a single interruption. He has asked a lot of questions, including the Zoonosen report. The coalition agreement includes pandemic preparedness. By pandemic preparedness, we also mean reducing the risk of another pandemic. At present, the ministers of VWS and LNV, Henk Staghouwer and Ernst Kuipers are working together on a national action plan of zoonoses to strengthen policies both human and veterinary. This action plan will come in the summer of this year. Mr. Chairman. As far as forests are concerned, at the end of 2020, the government issued a forest strategy, together with the provinces. This is what making and keeping the Dutch forests are part of, so that they can continue to play a role in a changed climate. Also in the context of nature restoration measures, such as within the Nature programme, there is attention to forest. As part of the strategy, the provinces are also working to increase the area of nature forest by 10% to about 155,000 hectares. Then the pellet heaters. You can see it: everything is answered. The cabinet's commitment is to reduce air pollution from heaters. A package of measures has been included in the Clean Air Agreement for this purpose. In addition, a review of additional measures has been commissioned to identify the area of firewood. That reconnaissance will be completed this quarter. On this basis, the follow-up steps are determined. As regards fertilizers, I can say that in the Netherlands the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products is the competent authority for the authorisation of plant protection products. In doing so, the College shall apply the precautionary principle, which shall be based on a scientific risk assessment. In doing so, plant protection products containing phenylalanine are authorised in the Netherlands, because safe use is possible according to the requirements. Mr. Chairman. Why didn't the cabinet choose to close Lelystad Airport? We have opted in the coalition agreement for an integral decision on Schiphol and Lelystad to be taken by mid 2022, so this year. In general, the decision concerns not only the number of aircraft movements at the airport, but also the reduction of the negative effects of aviation on humans, the environment and nature. This therefore requires an integrated solution that also offers perspective, also in view of the hub function of Schiphol. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered Mr Koffeman's questions on energy and climate. I have a few more questions to ask about Groningen, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u355	Answering a question is not the same as indicating: in theory, netting of nitrogen should lead to the reduction of nitrogen. Of course. But that theory doesn't seem right. That is why a large number of provinces have said: ho, we have to stop this, because we are talking about buying up farms that have not been in use for 12 years. Their nitrogen duties are being bought up to allow for new pollution. There is no right to pollution. The question was: are you prepared to stop that nitrogen ringing, as five provinces have done or are planning to do? That is a very different question, which also requires a different answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u356	The answer is not that we intend to do so now. But Mr Koffeman is now, of course, addressing a problem that you see in the provinces. For this reason, the departments concerned and the provinces are also exploring the negative effects of the introduction of latent space, for example, and how the possible increase in nitrogen emissions and deposition can be countered. The period of validity and the possibility to use space for new permits are also part of those explorations. That's what we're doing. In addition, of course, there is a need to demonstrate that the space used to grant permits is not necessary to meet the European nature restoration and improvement obligations. This also underlines the need to increase and accelerate the nitrogen approach. This brings me to the big story of the fact that we have included a huge sum of 25 billion to 2035 in the coalition agreement for a reason so that, after the first major steps taken by the previous cabinet following the ruling of the Council of State with the Nitrogen Act and so on, we can now give the next blow to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u357	I would like to point out once again that there is a great difference between perception and reality. The same was true with the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. Of course, it was not intended to increase the nitrogen problem, but it made the problem worse in practice. This is now also the case with the netting of nitrogen. The provinces see that now. The question is whether you should allow the legal inequality to exist that makes it impossible for one province and not the other province, or whether you should make it national policy when you see that the nature objectives are not going well under the influence of that nitrogen ringing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u358	That is why we are talking so widely with the provinces and, of course, we are also working on the plans for the cabinet to deal with nitrogen. All these aspects are being re-examined. But if Mr Koffeman asks me directly whether I am prepared to deactivate that instrument now, I say: no, I think that is too far. I don't think that's a good idea. There are still a few questions in the field of climate and energy, but we have had most of them. Last week, a wide-ranging debate took place in the House of Representatives, where Hans Vijlbrief first showed himself to the people. At least to the parliamentary people, because he had been to Groningen before. I thought it was special to be there. After his visit to Groningen, and also by reading in the file and in the major issues of further reducing gas production, repairing and strengthening, I think he really set a realistic tone, which also resonated in the Chamber, I noticed in coalition and opposition. We are dealing with the conviction that no new promises, no new points of contact, no new commitments. That's what I hear back from Groningen. There they say, "Don't change the structure again." It's all about the execution now. We also heard this as coalition parties when we had a conversation in Groningen with both earthquake victims and people working in the execution. If we're looking at the damage recovery, we have to say we're really not there yet. There's still a stash of 20,000 to 30,000 damage, but about 1,000 are reported a week. So a six-month lead time is not entirely avoidable, but there are also damages in there that last longer than six months to resolve. So they're working hard on that. The most important issue, I think, is to speed up the strengthening of the 13 000 houses that still need to be addressed. Of course, this also has to do with the question of sufficient staff and equipment to get this started. That is one of the reasons why File Letter said that he is going to sit in Groningen a few days a week, not to clean up those houses himself, because he can't do that but to bring all parties together. If there's any last buttons in the system, he can pull them out. It's a huge operation. With regard to the reduction of gas extraction, we are busy going back to zero. We are also looking at the imminent increase in the production of gas above 7 bcm, which would be below 4 bcm. Mr Vijlbrief is very busy looking at, in accordance with the Paternotte motion adopted in the House of Representatives, whether we can bring it back to that original value as much as possible. As we know, this has to do with the delay in the nitrogen plant and with an additional demand from Germany which cannot be rejected, even though we are talking to the Germans about this. Then I have a few more questions that have been asked about gas extraction. May I point out that in Groningen the reverse burden of proof applies. A question was asked about this from the OSF. The IMG will handle the damage and apply the legal evidence suspicions. The NAM has no role in that. Since 2019, some 120,000 reports of physical damage have been settled by the IMG. Again, that's with a six-month lead time. That doesn't solve the problem. I don't want to neglect that at all. Then I have two more questions on this block, but they're not about Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u359	The reason I asked was in relation to the text of the coalition agreement that is today two months old. It said that we need to give a quick perspective. In my view, that was a somewhat broad formulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u360	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u361	I notice in the conversations with the people in Groningen that they want to hear a date. A quick perspective is such a container concept that people can't handle very much. I followed the debate last week in the Lower House. I also understand that the practicalisation which the Prime Minister is now giving to it is being regularly updated so that it remains as concrete as possible and does not fall into the immediate futures and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u362	The most exciting thing here is the question of when the 9,500 houses that need to be reinforced are finished. We shouldn't make promises we can't make. We hope to be able to have a closer look at this soon, and also at how quickly it can be accelerated. That's right. Then there was another question about the agricultural sector. In the years to come, this sector will face a number of huge problems, for which sector in the Netherlands this is not the case, but it is also huge opportunities. My and also our expectation is that agriculture and horticulture will play a major role in this. All sectors contribute to creating more nitrogen space, which is also necessary for housing and for our economic development. Each time very precise and careful considerations are made. But everything is aimed at maintaining a very strong, future-proof agricultural sector in this country, which we are all very proud of and will continue to be so in the future. Then there was also a question about the high-speed line via Aachen and Liège. And why doesn't the Lelyline take precedence over lines in the Randstad? In the short term, we improve the connection from Aachen to Heerlen and Maastricht by allowing this train to continue to Liège and, shortly thereafter, by having a second express train run per hour on this route. For the long term, the ambition is to have an intercity train from Eindhoven to Aachen. This will require further adjustments to the railways. The coalition agreement is in itself 'yes', 'we of the toilet duck', that is, that we are going to work with the region as far as the Lelyline is concerned. We've freed up a big pot of money for that, but that's not enough. That's what we're going to talk to the region about. We will also see how it can contribute to the economy and housing of the North Netherlands. As far as the cabinet is concerned, this is not about competition between regions, but about how to strengthen the Netherlands as a whole. I think that's also the way we should look at that. Mr President, those are all the questions I wanted to answer in the areas of climate, energy and Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u363	The Prime Minister does not devote much more words to agriculture than we are proud of it and we must keep it whole. But a number of people in this country, including a large coalition party, believe that there should be a restructuring in agriculture and that there should be a transition from farming to farming. I don't hear the Prime Minister talking about that at all. We've reserved 25 billion to buy farmers out. Does he agree that such a shift should take place and that livestock farming should be drastically reduced in order to create nitrogen space? Make it concrete rather than saying that farmers must, of course, make more nitrogen space. Make it concrete what direction that should take as far as the cabinet is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u364	We are going to map this very precisely with the sector in the coming period. There are also very good proposals from the sector. A very far-reaching, solid plan has been presented, which I also found tough, from the organisations, from VNO and LTO, in May or June of last year. We have looked very carefully at this in the coalition discussions. There are other proposals. Here's what's gonna happen right now. Henk Staghouwer, the Minister of Agriculture, first, and Christianne van der Wal, the Minister of Nature and Nitrogen, are watching how you're going to put that sector back in place so that it's future-proof. That must be done without immediately falling in advance: then you have so many cows left. Or in: you have or don't have livestock. There will also be livestock farming in the future. No matter how many cows and pigs there are, we'll know in a while. We are not putting an objective on that in advance. We say in advance: this sector must contribute to reducing, above all, the problem of nitrogen. We must also ensure that we continue to feed the Netherlands and the world. We're proud of that sector. That's where people who are incredibly skilled work. From Wageningen to the Vmbo Green we have a fantastic vertical education column in the agricultural sector, which is also increasingly concerned with solving climate and nitrogen issues. So I am very positive about that. We have money for that, too. That's gonna cost real money. That was, of course, the problem of taking the next step. If you want to do it in a decent, decent way, if you want to give businesses the chance to move, stop or modernise, then money has to be invested. That financial space is here now. That is why we were able to take that first big step with the previous cabinet, but not yet the second step. At that time, we took a big step with the half billion for nature and major agricultural interventions, but this is, of course, a much bigger move that we are going to make with the sector in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u365	The Prime Minister will only continue to talk about agriculture in positive terms, but he does not want to commit to targets to create that nitrogen space. In the Netherlands 85% of the original biodiversity disappeared compared to 120 years ago. 75% of the bugs are gone. You can say "plant protection products," but they're insect pesticides. Those are the same means. I ask the Prime Minister to be specific and also to express an appreciation of the greatest coalition colleague, who says, for example, that livestock should be reduced by 50%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u366	Is that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u367	You say, "I'm not going to commit to numbers." But give you a direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u368	We are not going to release 25 billion for a programme on nitrogen reduction for the next 15 years... That's not just in agriculture. It'll be wider. We must also look at aviation, roads, public transport and shipping. We'll take a broad look at the nitrogen problem. It is absolutely true that agriculture has a large part to play in this. Of course, there's a reason why we're making so much money available. If we thought it was small steps... No, that's gonna be a big transformation. I have said before in the debate: I think that this cabinet is doing one of the biggest renovations in the Netherlands after the war, similar to the Delta Works, as I said, or Mansholt, in terms of climate and nitrogen and, less physically accessible but transformative, in terms of education and security. But it is now being worked out exactly how that is going to be designed. We do not say in advance, because we should not or should not like the agricultural sector: there must be so much reduction. This may, of course, occur in a party political sense. That's fine. But we did not say, as a coalition, that is what we are aiming for. Only the problem needs to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u369	Mr Koffeman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u370	I note that the Prime Minister does not want to answer the question as to which direction it is heading. I didn't ask for exact numbers. In the Netherlands, we slaughter 600 million animals a year. We do that because we want to be the butcher and milkman of the world. We export 70% of our animal production. The former Minister of Agriculture, Cees Veerman, said: "The whole system has stalled. We export huge quantities of dairy and meat. We import huge amounts of animal feed. With the junk, 80 billion kilos of manure, we stay put." Instead of referring to generalities as: we have made a great deal of money and we want to see how we are going to solve it everywhere. Instead, indicate a direction for the largest polluter in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u371	I think I indicated this direction by outlining the enormous amount of money available and the very great responsibility of agriculture as a contributor to nitrogen emissions. So we are now mapping exactly what that means. Where can livestock farming take place? Where's that vulnerable? Where is that less vulnerable? How can you build viable companies for the future? I also think that the other points mentioned by Koffeman are all very valid. So also that you're looking at what you want to produce for yourself and what you want to produce for export, which is the added value of that, that you map it all together. That is the great transition that will take place over the next ten years. However, I cannot say that this means that we will have so many cows in five years' time. I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u372	Thank you for the answers on infrastructure projects. In particular, you mentioned two routes, one towards the south, called Aachen and Liège. It is 2022 now and you mention years that are often outside this reign. I would ask you to speed this up because we have been talking about this for at least 30 years. It's in two times 25 kilometers. At another place in the Netherlands it would be resolved within a few years anyway and here, for some reason, it takes and lasts and lasts. That's one, so I'd like that gear. Two. You answered my question about the Lelyline. I have indicated that the landscape values in particular play a role in this respect, particularly in Friesland. How do you handle housing? There is a fear that the landscape will end there. One of the important issues with regard to funding is that you are also asking for money from the regions. If you can't build, you can't make money for that either. There's a connection in there, which you should be providing a solution for. The third point is that I had asked a question about Enschede and moved on to the German hinterland. I haven't heard anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u373	No, but I don't have an answer to that either. I'm gonna ask you to give me a heads-up on that. But I get the first point. I cannot entirely assess how much faster that can be, but I understand that the issue is limited in itself. Mr Raven is right about that. If you're talking about that connection Eindhoven-Aachen, that's a limited infrastructure operation. I don't have exactly where that's in the plans right now and how fast that can be. But I remember my visit to Emile Roemer, then as mayor of Heerlen, that we stood at that beautifully renovated station and talked about it, and how important it is that it is to take place. I cannot do much more now than admit that I reflect on that and that we are going to look at progress reports to see how much we can speed that up. That Lelyline should be considered in conjunction. I fully understand Friesland's pride in landscape values. Then, of course, there is always discussion about what that means, including the housing issues that lie ahead. But the combination in that triangle, of how beautiful it is, that goes for the whole of the North, also for Drenthe and Groningen in combination with that there is also a great ambition to realize a lot of the additional housing production that is needed in the Netherlands, which makes a Lelyline even more attractive, because then more people are transported on it. We will, of course, have to look at this in conjunction, but we really will. That is why we also have a Minister for Nature in this cabinet, a Minister for Housing. As Minister of Housing and Spatial Planning, Hugo de Jonge also serves as a forum for the consultation of all the rulers involved. Just to look at these issues in an integrated way every time. Oh, yeah, at the point of Enschede, I just heard from my colleague, Kaag, how do you know? That's good! Oh, yes, State participations... that the NS investments in German Abellio have not been successful, but the Deutsche Bahn continues. That's the beginning of the answer to that question about Enschede. And the conversations with the NS and Deutsche Bahn continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u374	Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I understand from that that attention is being paid, especially the story of moving on to southern Europe. It is so obvious that we connect those high-speed lines in both France and Germany to our Dutch network, and there is simply a very simple connection at two international train stations. I think that the Lely line, combined with its own payment by the regions, will be a very difficult task. I would like to put that problem on the table once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u375	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, We'll get back to that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the cup of care. Perhaps first the questions that have been asked about the delicate point of child heart surgery in Groningen and the closure that threatens there. The point is that in the Netherlands there are eleven surgeons, I say by heart, who can do that type of surgery. They now operate at five locations and should be open 24 hours a day. With that my knowledge is exhausted, but it does show how much it is necessary to look again where exactly you do it. If the child's heart surgery in Groningen is closed, that does not mean that all the other treatments that are going on around children and heart diseases are no longer taking place there. But the heart surgery was supposed to get out of there. There's a lot of discussion about that. Ernst Kuipers, the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, sent a letter on this matter to the House of Representatives on Friday. He has said that the NZa will make a new analysis of the effects of the concentration that is currently foreseen in two places, namely Erasmus MC and UMC Utrecht, as the cabinet now intends. He is prepared to look again at those choices if there are good reasons for doing so. Well, that's under review now, so it's on hold right now. As soon as the results are there, there will be further consideration. I can imagine that I can promise here that the First Chamber will of course receive the results of this, now that it is also so explicitly discussed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u376	Thanks for the answer. In general, I would have gotten that from the letter that was sent. I have added that there could also be foreign aspects in the context of international cooperation. For example, as far as Limburg is concerned, reference is made to foreign children's heart centres. Why don't we do that in other places? And why is this geographical discussion not included in the overall discussion? It doesn't seem to play any role so far. In fact, the geographical component is excluded. I think it is very important that there is coverage in the North as well. Then you don't have to have a big cover in the middle of the country or... In the south. In that context, I would like to mention this in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u377	I have also understood this question quite clearly. Let me say that I ask Ernst Kuipers to take the issue into account in consultation with the NZa if there are any smart combinations to be made in a somewhat larger space than only the Netherlands, without me knowing whether that is true. What Mr Raven says makes sense to me. In any case, this seemed to be saying to Mr Raven, who has clearly given more thought to this issue. That's what we're gonna get involved in. Many aspects of care are going to come back. But, of course, the risk of a debate on the coalition agreement, which applies to the Lower House and the Upper House, is that a lot of things still have to be worked out. However, I would like to make a few general comments, also in relation to the questions that have been raised. The cabinet I think it applies to all of us, and I want to keep the care affordable, available and accessible to everyone. We want to prevent long-term affordability from becoming a problem. You can also see in this cabinet period that healthcare expenditure is still rising enormously, but really. That is why we have said: we must see whether it is possible in the longer term to slow down this growth. So this is not a cut-back, it is a brake on growth. It needs to be further mapped out exactly how we are going to do that. That may require a different organization of care. We simply don't have enough people to deliver all that care right now. The workload is enormous. We are also looking, for example, at a follow-up to the Work in Health Action Programme. The House of Representatives and after this evening, of course, the First Chamber will be further informed by the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport. On 8 March, a debate was held in the House of Representatives on the main lines of policy in the coming years, with a number of specific issues being discussed. It is about working differently with the available care staff, how we can continue to provide the care, which is a growing demand, with good quality, how we can also use technology to continue to provide good care and how we can train and maintain and further strengthen the current staff in care. Against that background, there is a demand for the chief medical officer from the coalition agreement. For this purpose, VWS is now working on this further. The planning letter from VWS to the Dutch Parliament, which was sent yesterday, stated that it was intended to send a letter on this subject this year. Then a question was asked about the cuts in youth care in the coalition agreement. Over the last few months, with enormous energy from young people, client organisations, professionals, providers, municipalities and the Empire, we have been working on what has been called the "Youth Reform Agenda." The objective is twofold, as you know. It is about improving youth care for young people who need it, but also about how to ensure that the system remains sustainable in the financial and human sense. The ruling of the Committee of Wise Men, the CvW, of May 2021 provides guidance. Its mission was to draw up the reform agenda with a combination of measures and resources. It includes a financial series. That series is also included in the coalition agreement. In addition, the coalition agreement agreed that we are looking at additional policies from 2024 onwards. These should lead to a reversal that adds up to 100 million in 2024, as you know, and to 500 million in 2025. It's structural, I think, 516 million. At least after 2025, it's a little over 500 million. The coalition agreement mentions a number of directions that we need to discuss further, namely the normalization of treatment hours or the introduction of an own contribution. We understand, of course, that's a difficult task. At the moment, this clearly leads to tension in the sectors concerned and in particular in the municipalities, the VNG and others. At the same time, I say here that we need each other badly. We would like to continue the process of the reform agenda. The current problems surrounding the combination of child and family are too big and too urgent to go on. The other interested parties also want to go through with this. We are in close consultation on how we can re-launch this discussion with the UNG on the wider agenda, including the agenda that is emerging from it, namely that of the wider municipal finances. That actually gives you a stack of three issues. The Committee of Wise Men says that this investment path is necessary to solve problems. It is the coalition's desire to see if it is possible to achieve some reversals in care, which go up to that 500 million. And you have the broader issue of municipal finances. In that triangle, we're working on the conversation. That's what we're gonna be doing in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u378	The problem, of course, is not that the conversation does not run, but that it has been stalled for a while. That has to do with the 100 million cut, rising to 516 million. If you know some of these individual cases, I think you would be aware of the seriousness of the problem. There must be reform. That is already in the arbitration report of the Committee of Wise Men. That's where the norm's in. This is not linked to the additional austerity of the cabinet. My question is as follows. This Chamber seems to say in a majority: "Cabinet, don't do that. Reshape the system. Fix the consultation with the VNG and the whole field." Is the Cabinet prepared, listening to this Chamber, to withdraw that austerity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u379	No, it is not the case that, in a debate on the coalition agreement, we are now basically withdrawing a whole cut. That would be crazy. We'll continue that conversation. I realise very well what Mr Rosenmöller is saying. I also really understand what he's saying about the huge task, the huge amount of work that lies ahead to get it done. He's just right about that. We need to make sure that youth care is more focused on those who really need it very badly and that there are no long waiting lists. At the same time, we must avoid that some parts of the youth care system, the good ones not all too often, focus very much on the children who also have problems, but who are a little easier to treat. This creates the waiting lists for the children who urgently need heavy care. We have to look at all these issues together. That is why the two directions we are naming in the coalition agreement are not exhaustive and, as far as we are concerned, realistic. To Rosenmöller's direct demand that the cuts be removed now, I say no. At the request of the Committee of Wise Men and in the light of the wider issue of municipal finances, and in the light of the billion that is added, I say yes unequivocally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u380	Yes, look, the Wise Men's Commission is adding something, but it also says: in the context of the necessary reform, a billion will go down in the long term too. It is therefore a plus and a minus, because it is not only a compensation for the deficits that have arisen since 2015 in relation to decentralisation. They are deficits in combination with a reform of the system, for example because of standardisation and other issues. We really have a huge problem with the youth care system. I'm sure you know that as well as I do. There are very nice ambitions in this coalition agreement, but then it really doesn't fit to add such an ugly element of an unsubstantiated severe austerity, in later years up to 500-so many million. If the Prime Minister wants to restore this in consultation with the VNG and the whole field, which is now threatening strikes and so on, then he will have to listen. Then the outstretched hand comes around the corner. Then you will also have to take this Chamber into account. I have a motion that is supported by a majority of this Chamber, which says: do this differently, withdraw that austerity, restore this and go for that reform. That's my point. Well, then you'll have to tap out of another keg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u381	I do not think it is right in terms of constitutional relations, with a coalition that is just starting, to say at the first meeting with the Senate: we are withdrawing a whole cut, which has been well thought out. I'd think that was crazy. But I understand Mr Rosenmöller's position and view. Just, at the specific point of withdrawing it today, I say no. I'm being honest about that, too. We're not gonna tell each other any bullshit, either. But I listen very carefully to what Mr Rosenmöller says. He also has a point when he says that there is a shortage in youth care of over 1.8 billion. The measures we take as a result of the Committee of Wise Men bring this back to a deficit of over 800 million. That's just true. The total compensation we do for all these problems also goes down from about 1.4 billion initially to just 300 million in 2027 and beyond, as a result of this reversal. So in itself, he's right in that sequence of numbers. I just think that this is highly justifiable from the broader issue of how to manage the costs of care and how to ensure that the necessary reforms are carried out in youth care. I'm just excited to be a cabinet with that sector..........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u382	Last time. It takes two to tango. You may wish to do so, but all sides of the field have also been addressing us in this debate over the last few days and saying: we will not get out of it as long as the cabinet sticks to that austerity. And then you say: it is a bit strange to withdraw a cut to 500 million at the first debate. Yeah, that might be a little weird, but sometimes you have to do something weird to achieve something. 'Cause now you're not getting anywhere. And if you do not achieve anything, the young people who depend on youth care will suffer. That is what we should share as the most important problem, namely that young people dependent on youth care should quickly receive high-quality youth care. Maybe that's too soon now, but we'll have to reform it. But that's what this is about, and that's what motivates me. That doesn't bring that austerity any closer but further away. That is why it is necessary to cut back on the table and I shall table this motion, which is supported by a majority. Then it is also important that you say: once we make this material concrete. That's the story of the outstretched hand, of connecting and of bridging contradictions. That's what I'm looking for in this area. It can't always be for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u383	I am also looking for a more intelligent interpretation of Mr Rosenmöller's concept of 'extruded hand'. I do not feel that the hand would not be out of hand if the sector asked for a cut in the table, a majority of the First Chamber following and not immediately telling the cabinet to follow it. I also think that "an outstretched hand" means you're talking to each other about what can and can't be done. If you look at youth care and the wider issue of rising healthcare spending, we really have a number of problems to solve. I think there is a difference here too. On the one hand, there is the VNG, the municipalities, which I fully understand. They are, of course, very concerned about the wider issue of finance. That's why I'm saying you have to look at it in the broader context of municipal finances. That's one way. On the other hand, the professionals, clients and providers do say: we do want to talk about how to proceed. So there really is still a difference in tone between all those different players.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u384	Mr President, if I may, this is the last time. The smart thing is that he was on the committee's arbitration of wise, because it also hurts. It is a plus, but it also says: it is too easy and we will also have to reform. We understand that very well. With pain and difficulty, the VNG and the whole youth field have committed themselves to this to some extent. That's what I'm talking about. But if that unsubstantiated austerity comes up again, then that has nothing to do with a challenge to talk intelligently about it again. That is just blunt, that is unsubstantiated, that is unwise, and that is bad for young people who are in trouble. So that needs to be corrected. I'm gonna ask the cabinet to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u385	Thank you! Of course, we always listen to Mr Rosenmöller, and by the way everyone here. But I also want to be honest on this point. We're not gonna withdraw that cut tonight. I'm clear about that, too. Otherwise, it doesn't fit in the proportions we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u386	It is a little difficult to ask another question, after Mr Rosenmöller's passionate series of questions. But I was also triggered by the Prime Minister's remark that he is looking for an intelligent solution. But until now, all I can hear him say is that that conversation should just start again. But he says to partners who said they're not gonna start that conversation again. They said, "I can't do this, so we're not coming to the table." I am therefore curious to see what the Prime Minister is going to do to ensure that those interlocutors come back to the table. I'm gonna ask you a slightly longer question, Mr. Chairman. I can only imagine the Prime Minister saying: we are not going to withdraw a cut at first. However, it might be an intelligent solution, for example, to move the cuts a little further in time, to look at them later, to start with the reform agenda and then to look at how the rest should be completed at a later date. Isn't there a space between moving in directly and the black and white, like a bulldozer, going through this line? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u387	The coalition has just begun. The VNG is closing the door on this point. I understand all that. I fully respect that, too. That's okay, too. Then I stand there playing violin at the door with the message: let me in. At least I'm not standing there, but the cabinet is. Of course it's not that I say: then I throw away the violin, because they don't like the music, and then I can go in. That is actually the question: withdraw that cut. I am not going to prepare the negotiations of the responsible ministers and secretaries of state with the VNG in public, but I do think there is a solution in the triangle I outlined. On the one hand, you just have the question: what are we doing with the youth care system in the future, and also with the professionals who work there, with all the providers and with the people who use it? In addition, you have the question of the Committee of Wise Men: how do you see the future of youth care, also at a more structural level, including the whole financial picture? In addition, of course, the VNG is specifically concerned that we should have talks with them about municipal finances, also in a broader sense. I'm thinking of a combination of that. I don't want to say that I'm already putting things differently in time from the other. I think it might be less real. It is good to have that crunchtime over the next few months and to say to each other: come to the table, but then we are also talking about the wider agenda of municipal finances. That's how I know the VNG. That's what they want themselves to do. In that context, we need to look at how we solve the problem of that billion extra. In addition, there is still a problem of 800 million with the extra redirection. The total additional investment is 300 million, but that is still compared to a substantial reversal. But I also mention those broader municipal finances. That's how I see it. But I'm still standing there with that violin at the door, and I'm not sure if they're gonna open the door. I can't guarantee that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u388	The Prime Minister says a few times: the coalition has just begun. But that's what makes it so sad. The coalition has just begun, but the coalition is already starting such a major conflict with the VNG on an important subject. I honestly say that I am a little disappointed that the Prime Minister knows nothing better than to say: we are just sticking to what we have agreed, and we are not going to deviate from that in any way, and we are just waiting for them to come back to the table. Because that's actually what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u389	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u390	That's what I hear. And if you do not say that, I ask you to clarify again what you are saying, because that is what I have heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u391	No, I didn't say that. Mrs Huizinga says: what can you do to seduce the VNG to come back to the table? Well, that's what I'm saying that's partly a complicated conversation, because of course you have to mention that a bit in the secrecy of those conversations. But in itself, I understand that question. The easiest route is to say: sorry, we're pulling that austerity off the table. But I won't. The easiest thing is to say: we're going to talk about that billion extra but not about that threatening cut, because we'll do that later. To be honest, I don't think that's entirely fair either. I think it would be a good idea to look at this in conjunction. But, let's say to the VNG they're not here right now: Jan, let's broaden it to a third theme. That third theme, which they also want to talk about, is: what else is going on around municipal finances, the municipal tax domain and so on? There are many other issues in that coalition agreement. I think we can get on with this broader agenda. I'm really convinced of that. There is no guarantee: I don't know if, if I put it that way here, the VNG will call tomorrow and fall into my arms crying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u392	Finally, Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u393	That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u394	That would be wonderful. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u395	Thank you! Mr. Chairman. There was one more question on the issue of care and it was about the young people in the Netherlands. Mr Janssen asked that question and I think it is a fair question. The connection between the generations... No, isn't that Mr Janssen's question? There's SP on my paper. "What is the mp going to do, also financially, to give young people with big problems the confidence that there is a government that protects them when needed?" No, wasn't that yours? Then I'll throw it away! Sorry. Then he would have been prepared, but he wouldn't have been. It was a very nice answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u396	Mr Janssen seems to think it is a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u397	Never throw it away; always comes in handy. No, my question was correct: how are you going to regain the confidence of all those young people who are currently in trouble and are waiting for a solution? It was about the whole discussion just now. I was a little shocked by the Prime Minister's explanation that young people seem to be changing in a broader discussion about the tax domain. I hope that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u398	No, it certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u399	Because that's how it came across, and that would hit me very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u400	I'm glad I can fix that. No, that is certainly not the case. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the board chapter. There are several questions in that. I'm just getting them mixed up, because it's a limited number of questions. First of all, why do local independent political parties still not receive subsidies? From the resources of the Jetten motion, the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations made available up to 2025 an amount of €350,000 for the further development of the Knowledge Point local political parties. The experience of the point of knowledge is involved in the issue of structural support for decentralised parties. There are no funds available for this now, but this comes back politically. At the moment this is not provided with resources, but it is therefore politically on the agenda. Then there is the broader question of regaining trust. I think it is crucial for this issue that we, as a coalition, but also together with the Chamber in a debate when we are here today, do everything we can to tackle the major issues of our time. That is why we need to tackle the major transitions that have been decided in the coalition agreement. We must do this with broad support, including in the First Chamber. We're also here today talking to each other to see if we can make bridges. Well, that was just moderately successful in youth care, but on other themes we may be able to do so today. In this way we can achieve the necessary support, even here in the First Chamber. I believe that this is also necessary for the legislation needed to fulfil those ambitions. The question also arose as to what I myself have learned in recent years. Well, I will not list everything, but of course I have also thought about the recent cases that have gone terribly wrong, for example with the childcare allowance. We have also strongly reflected on this in the run-up to the resignation of the previous cabinet, in December and January 2020-2021. One of our and one of my most important lessons is that, in our profession, we are always at risk of being very busy with legislation and regulation, and not with implementation. For too long, this has been the closing point for policy and political will. This has led to an overload of the Tax Administration. More and more tasks were added, processes became more complex and the service was too remotely placed. I hope that you will read back on this in this coalition agreement, at least in the discussions we have had intensively with each other as four parties, that it is crucial that implementation is an integral part of policy and that the signals from that implementation reach the official and political summit. That affects, very practically, so-called feedback loops. I was at the UWV the other day. That's where they have the "abdominal conversations." Those are conversations that take place as an employee going home after he correctly applied the laws and regulations, but he feels like he's made a concrete swim band. Everything is true, but the outcome is not what he or she considers socially desirable. Then within the UWV it is organized that all systems sit in a room to see: how can this be done; can we solve this ourselves or should the regulations be adapted? So it goes up again very quickly in the feedback loop and if it is necessary also to official and political leadership. The same goes for the Stella team of the IRS, where I visited last week with Secretary of State Marnix van Rij. It's very impressive how they work to get all the experts in the room. They also run into problems. Think of the privacy legislation in the Netherlands, which makes information sometimes more difficult to share. They are also trying to find solutions for this within the laws and regulations. Maybe we should talk about that. We'll see. There are very motivated people who make a decision that is right, but it is terrible, to discuss it with other experts immediately so that, as they said, no one falls off the conveyor belt. At such a tax authority we all get on the assembly line when we make our reports. 99.5% going well. But if you fall off the conveyor belt there, it can sometimes have huge consequences. This does not affect me to answer that question; that is a separate issue, namely that things can go terribly wrong within the implementation, simply violating the proper application of laws and regulations. That's not what I'm talking about right now. I am talking about the vast majority of the people who work there and who are of good will, but still run into the effects of what we are thinking of here. Putting the implementation at the centre and organizing the feedback loops sounds very simple, but we need to be consistent with each other and therefore all are visible in that execution. The same applies to the parliamentarians, I say with all due respect. I think so, because I can only look up to you with a stiff neck. If we make these laws and regulations together, we'll be at eye level. Then you're not the inspector. We'll make them together. I hope that we are always wondering at this level: are we not creating another exception here that leads to even more complex laws and regulations? That is sometimes very sympathetic, but we have to ask ourselves if that is possible. I think that's a very important lesson. Then the question is whether we should go to a situation where general principles of good governance guide public policy? Yes, I agree, I say to Mr Rosenmöller. They are, of course, the starting point for legislative policy and for the implementation of public policy and also for the review by an independent judge. Then I was asked if I could reflect on the formation. I would like to say that it should have been quicker and that I do not rule out the fact that at times I have contributed to the delay in that formation. I am looking at Mr Rosenmöller. That's because he asked the question. I do not know whether it makes sense to look back on 2021 from 17 March last year, through the 1 April debate until the conclusion of the coalition agreement. In any case, I am determined to do better in a subsequent formation, should I be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u401	There are always intermediate routes, of course, but maybe you don't have to tonight. The question then is what is worth for the cabinet the following phrase in the government statement, which we are putting at the heart of today's discussion: we are going to evaluate and there is also a critical self-reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u402	That's not up to the cabinet. That's really the House of Representatives that has decided to go through the whole process...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u403	No, it's in the cabinet papers, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u404	Yes, but that is our contribution to the evaluation of the House of Representatives of the formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u405	Anyway, of course, I'm curious about your contribution. What the House of Representatives does, the House of Representatives does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u406	But this is the cabinet. We are the product of formation. We have no legal relationship with that, other than that some were sitting at both tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u407	So there's nothing coming from the cabinet in this area at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u408	No, except for the parties, D66, VVD, Christian Union, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u409	Anyway, you're in the cabinet and you've played a part in that formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u410	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u411	But since you're in the cabinet, there won't be any more critical self-reflection from your side?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u412	Sure, but that'll be party politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u413	A little transparency...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u414	Mr. Rosenmöller, you and the Prime Minister are really talking a little too much together right now. People at home won't be able to follow. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u415	A process of evaluation of the whole formation process is foreseen. I know that the chairman of the Lower House is trying to shape that. The coalition parties will, of course, have to contribute to this. In a constitutional sense, the newly established cabinet is a product of that formation. In strictly formal constitutional sense, we have no meaning in this, other than that of course some members of the cabinet were intensively involved in that formation, including myself, Sigrid Kaag, Wopke Hoekstra, Carola Schouten. Others have moved on as chairman of the political group. Think of Sophie Hermans and Gert-Jan Segers. So, of course, individual politicians will contribute to this. It's not like we're gonna reflect on the formation as a cabinet. When I look at the formation, I say that in a personal capacity, I see that it has taken a very long time to come to the choice of "who with whom." There are many reasons for this, but it is an iterative process between the eight or nine parties involved in these talks in any form. Once we knew who we were with, it actually happened quite quickly. But yes, I also have my fault for the slowness of the "who with whom" question. That's right. Others may too, but so do I. Maybe it could all have been a lot faster. Well, that's a bit of a look-back right now. Next time I want to avoid that myself when I have a contribution to make, in any role. Mr Schalk asked about the administrative culture. I think that's something common. As a cabinet, we can't do that on our own. As far as I am concerned, this includes speaking and listening with respect. Mr Schalk literally said so; I wrote it down. I have also heard contributions in this debate which I thought were not entirely in line with that standard. I'm not going to go on about that. There have been statements made about colleagues of mine at this table, about Mrs Kaag, for example, which I thought were so far away from the truth, shouldn't someone stand up to ask that person if that should be said in such a debate? As far as I'm concerned, that's not the new governance culture. I hope the part of the new governance culture is that when someone does, someone else gets up and says, "Oh, is that normal?" That didn't happen this morning. I'm telling you the truth. I took a look at it, and you let it all go. I just wanted to get that off my chest anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u416	I think it is very good that the Prime Minister is also linking this back to us. That was also one of the reasons why I indicated this way and with this tone this morning that we will have to find out that it begins with ourselves. Wherever we, as senators, make the mistake of letting it go, it is excellent that we are called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u417	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u418	Your microphone's off now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u419	So it will have to be a combination that we have to practice hard over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u420	Sure, and if I point one finger at you, I'll point three at myself. At other times I could have gotten up earlier and I let it go. That's something we need to keep each other on top of each other. You can talk very complicated about which words you can or can't say, but it's just about very basic decency. And the point is that at least school classes do not have to turn off the debate because teachers are afraid that children hear things that are contrary to the good principles of education. Mrs. Jorritsma asked about lowering the workload. I get that thought. I admit that in the past I have also shown myself to be in favour of a smaller cabinet team. At the same time, the agenda pressure is increasing enormously. The complexity is also increasing. I don't know exactly what it's all about. It will also be up to me, to the country or to how complex government in the Netherlands is sometimes. Especially now that we want to shape such large transitions over the next few years, we have said to each other: if you want to do that right, you should also... Again, when I saw File Letter sitting there, he was sitting there, because he is suffering from his back and is doing the debate sitting and seeing him carry out that file Groningen with so much superiority, I thought: what a blessing, that he can do that completely full-time dedicated. I think it's gonna be appreciated eventually if it's gonna yield something. Not yet, because it's too soon. But I really hope this will be felt in Groningen as well. The same applies to the childcare allowance, but also to a number of major transitions that Rob Jetten, the Minister for Climate and Energy, is currently working on. Or Christianne van der Wal with the dossier Nitrogen and Nature. We now have people who can focus entirely on this without also having to do the Economic Affairs portfolio or the broad Agriculture and Food Quality portfolio. We can do that on a larger team now. Does this also lead to less workload? There is a lot more consultation and I have not been in front of all of them for a long time now, because it is far too much. As I said, Hugo de Jonge is chairing a large consultation of directors in the areas of infrastructure, housing and housing. Yeah, that's how it works. And that will partly lead to additional workload, but then it also leads to acceptance and speed in the execution. I am happy to respond to the desire to send consolidated versions of the laws to be amended by amending laws. That was a question from D66. In this context, consultations have been going on for some time at official level between the Minister for Legal Protection and the Supreme Court on how to implement it. The Minister for Legal Protection, Franc Weerwind, continues to do so. Those texts are currently not available too standard. It requires a separate action to have these texts drawn up. We have already discussed the eligible targets in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u421	Thank you for this commitment. Is it also possible to set a date for this? Can we say, for example, that we are going to do this from May 1st? I know there are conversations, but they've been running for quite a while. I think that is important, because otherwise we are not even going to see it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u422	I'm just gonna ask if I can be updated. The wish is May 1st; can it? It'll be back in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u423	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u424	By return mail. Then there was the question of monitoring the integrity of the transitions. We've talked about that before. It had passed before. Then I come to Justice and Security, the final issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u425	Mrs. Fox of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u426	It may have been a bit lost in the speed of my talk, but I had asked another question about the motion tabled by Ruud Koole on 11 May on the position of the Minister of the Interior. That was a debate on decentralisation. There's a lot going on in provinces and municipalities. We got the list from the VNG with, I think, some 400 laws that they're all responsible for. It would be nice if there was one minister for that. At that time, the Chamber spoke out to bring it to the formation table and to give that minister the power to co-sign those laws so that he or she can keep control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u427	Did you ask that question in the first place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u428	I set it in the first term, but I can imagine that it has gone through at the pace of my speech. That was another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u429	Okay. There are a few things I will return to in second term. At least on this one too, because I didn't register it. Then a few questions about the Justice Department. Among other things, Mr Van Kesteren's question on the rule of law and drug crime. He just left, I see. Then I'll take the question from the Nanninga Group about migration first. I reply that this cabinet wants to manage migration as much as possible in order to gain a better grip on migration. This includes improving and strengthening legal migration and, in parallel, limiting irregular migration, combating nuisance and abuse and promoting return in the event of illegal residence. It is precisely in order to gain a better grip on migration and to be able to anticipate it in good time that we want to have regular insight into the expected labour, knowledge and asylum migration. We are committed to a balanced European approach. The Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs is delivering an opinion on what Germany is doing. That works with a kind of policy orientation number. We are going to look at that, but no decisions have yet been taken. Then about sexual harassment of women. The broadcasters are editorially independent and themselves responsible for their media offerings. This is due to the question of whether everything can be shown by public service broadcasting. The NPO is responsible for the placement and coordination of the media offerings. I think the independence of public service broadcasting is a great asset. Of course, we do not want any interference from cabinet or chamber in our media. For programmes that may be harmful to minors, children and parents should be informed through the viewing guide system. This in itself has also recently been positively evaluated. Apart from that, the Cabinet is working on a comprehensive and coordinated approach to preventing sexual harassment and sexually cross-border behaviour. Of course, the appointment of the Commissioner for Government, Mariëtte Hamer, is also important in this respect. Last week, a communication was issued on this subject so that awareness and a secure culture are also consciously stepped up. After all, intimidation and abuse do not belong in the Netherlands. For the jihad brides, this applies equally to that term; I think it is about the extraditors from Syria that the cabinet does not have a general policy to retrieve extraditors. We remain committed to preventing impunity. That's important. You want to avoid that there is ultimately a risk that someone will be released from legal proceedings if the judge has decided that he or she wants to see that person personally in front of the agency. Then we will see if we can facilitate it. It must then be possible to transfer persons. The possible transfer to the Netherlands is complex and not self-evident. We are also always looking at the security situation in the region and the implications for international relations. But this is about preventing impunity in cases where termination is imminent. If someone returns, there is nothing we can do about this person. That would also be contrary to our national security interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u430	The Minister of Justice has indicated that they can also be tried on location. You can do that with a video connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u431	We can't do that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u432	Well, then you wait a minute, because we have time. They're fine in their own right there. Your party's colleagues have also said so. A MP said: it's fine if they're in that sandbox; let's try them there. The current Minister of Justice has also indicated that it is fine that they are there. So what's the rush to pick them up? You can just let them sit while you wait until you're ready to have a video connection and try them this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u433	We have independent justice in the Netherlands. The judge has said in a number of cases: if you do not bring the person in front of my desk within three or six months, I will dismiss this person from legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u434	At least you could use those six months. Isn't it a much greater punishment to leave them there? The Prime Minister himself has said that they have all gone there of their own accord. The Prime Minister has even said once that this was in a debate before the Provincial State elections: it is better for them to die there than for them to come back. Your Minister of Justice has said that they are a potential danger to the Netherlands. So you're not gonna let them come back? I think the sentence is much bigger if you leave them there than if you bring them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u435	Once again, the point is that the judge has the unbearable habit of deciding entirely sovereignly, within the framework of the law, what he or she wants. That's what we've got to stick to. That's how it belongs in Montesquieu's separation of powers. In a number of cases, the judge, he or she, said, "I want to see that person physically in front of my desk. If this does not happen within a given period of time, I am very much considering releasing this person from legal proceedings." If that person returns to the Netherlands, we run serious risks. Of course, this isn't about people who went there to unscrew. If such a person returns to the Netherlands, it could be a danger to our safety. We don't want to take that risk. I would also believe that Mrs Faber's party, I have always understood, is that party, for our safety too, that would understand that and would say: then you have no choice but to bring it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u436	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u437	I do not entirely agree with the Prime Minister, because then it is not true what your Minister of Justice says, namely that they can also be tried by means of a video link.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u438	We can't do that yet. I can't do that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u439	At least I'd have waited those six months. Then why don't we wait another six months? In the meantime, things can change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u440	No. It won't be resolved in six months. In many cases, we need those six months in order to start an operation like this properly. It takes a lot of time to do that carefully. No, this is really for the sake of our national security. Then the gambling ads. The aforementioned Franc Weerwind, Minister for Legal Protection, also spoke about this in the other Chamber. The cabinet supports the need to restrict advertising. I understand that it's all about the Eight-hour news by now. In the short term, lower regulation will already be strengthened. Then, in addition, the sector is asked to take responsibility and to move towards further self-regulation. This is now happening, also on the basis of the Van Nispen motion which has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u441	The Prime Minister says that lower regulation is already being adapted. Can the Minister give us a more detailed explanation of this? Of course, it is quite possible to say that there should be no more than one gambling ad per commercial block. It is also very common for you to say in lower regulation that only certain periods are suitable for gambling advertising. Is that what the Prime Minister means?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u442	That goes a little too far for the debate on the coalition agreement. I really don't have that ready. I'm not sure we can get that out of the administration tonight either. Let me make a deal. Weatherwind is therefore working on this, the Minister for Legal Protection. Let me promise that, as soon as there is news about this about which he reports to the House of Representatives, a letter will also be sent to the House of Lords immediately. The same goes for Secretary of State Van Rij, because he deals with the gambling tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u443	It is clear that the Minister is working on this. Minister Weerwind also said that it is virtually impossible to change this in the short term. In the short term, i.e. on 1 April, the amount of gambling advertising will increase considerably. The question was therefore whether, through an emergency measure, for example in lower regulation, something could be done to reduce the number of gambling advertisements. It's all about nothing else, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u444	I really have nothing more to report on Franc Weerwind in the House of Representatives. This goes far beyond the limits of the debate on the coalition agreement. I really didn't prepare for that. May I suggest that we ensure that whatever he writes about this to the Lower House goes straight to the Upper House in a copy? Is this how we're gonna do it? To some extent, therefore, State Secretary Van Rij is also working on this. Let me make that commitment. I just don't know and I don't know if we can pull that out of the administration tonight. Then there are the drug prevention programmes. How do they relate to experiments for legalized drugs? I think it's here and-and. It's not one thing or the other. It is precisely in the experiment that coffeeshop chains closed down that much attention is paid to drug prevention. The experiment focuses on creating a closed chain and assessing its effects, including on public health. In addition, the cabinet invests in the prevention of drug use in a broader sense. A question from Mr Schalk of the SGP was also about the commitment to a safe working environment. Police, emergency workers and intelligence services must be able to do their job. What measures does the government take to maintain the rule of law in this respect? I very much agree with that, including the importance of a safe working environment for our aid workers. With an action programme, the task force aims to reduce violence against and abuse of aid workers and to make it clear to Dutch people that aggressive behaviour towards aid workers is never tolerated, but never tolerated. This applies to the police and municipalities as employers of the boas and fire brigades, but also to the Ministry of Justice and Security, the Public Prosecutor's Office and science. That programme was launched on 31 March last year. We will have to tackle this broadly with society, strengthen the social standard and secure employership and prevent and prosecute aggression. One final question. Then I shall return to Mr Van Kesteren's question, as I promised. Can a timetable be drawn up for the intensification of exit programmes for prostitution? The coalition agreement states that these are to be extended and made structural. Participants may, if they so wish, receive an urgent declaration at a distance from their old environment. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security will continue to do so. I cannot give a concrete timetable for this right now, but the Secretary of State is working on it. As soon as there is news about this, he will report to the House of Representatives, and of course from this evening also to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u445	I looked right through the Chamber and saw a bewildered face with Mr. Van Kesteren. The question about the exit programs was mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u446	That's right. I have to come back to Mr Van Kesteren's question on drug crime. I just broke that sentence off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u447	Then I'm gonna give you a lead on the drug crime. I heard the answer very well. The point was that the experiments may be embedded in all kinds of thoughts. My heart cry to the Prime Minister is of course: does he really think drugs are healthy for someone? We're talking about public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u448	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u449	Shouldn't we just have the guts to say we're quitting that kind of experiment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u450	No. Many things are not healthy, but in a liberal democracy they are not prohibited in advance. One of the things we have in the Netherlands is that it is allowed to own soft drugs for one person. That's the way it is. But you can also buy a bottle of gin. And then it's up to the doctors to determine what's worse or better. I don't know about that either. It doesn't seem healthy to me. With the experiments closed coffeeshop chain we look at how we can deal with the leprechauns that now deliver the stuff to the coffeeshops at the back door in a more normal way. That's the thought. Is there more regulation in this and is there also a lot of serious crime that is hidden behind that back door? That is the research that is going on, in combination with prevention and preventing trade from moving to the street if, for example, the active substance contained in soft drugs does not have the same strength as in the classic coffee shops. That's still very complicated. All these things are mapped out, with the aim of seriously considering, if that proves to work, whether we should not go one step further. We don't do that because we want to stimulate drug use. But you can't forbid it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u451	No. I think it is indeed a good thing that we do not want to encourage this. But the question is, of course, why are we going on the path of this experiment? That is actually the question to the Prime Minister. What's the advantage of hitting such a path? We sometimes talk about a sliding bowl. Do we have such an experiment with even more legalizing weed use and so on, not on a sliding scale, making it even easier for young people to get into trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u452	It's very easy for a lot of people right now to get into trouble, because you can buy it anywhere. Here in the area I don't know how many coffeeshops. That's where you can get that shit. I think it's a mess. I would recommend to everyone: don't do it and make sure all those coffee shops go bankrupt. But they will not, because there are far too many young people who do, and not just young people. There are a few issues. One of these is the increasing active substance in soft drugs, which leads to very serious psychotic diseases in a number of young people. In those closed coffeeshop chains you can see if you can somehow come to more regulation around the heaviness of that active substance. But that brings with it another problem, namely that part of the trade may then move to the street. This brings us to the main reason why we have these coffee shops at all: we want to separate the use of hard drugs in the Netherlands from soft drugs. That worked. We have relatively few people in the Netherlands who switch from soft drugs to hard drugs, because we have separated them. But, of course, there is a very big problem with these coffee shops, and that is the serious crime associated with the cultivation of this mess, and of course the fact that 95% of that crop goes abroad. Of all these things, the previous cabinet said: let's see if by regulating that a little more in such a closed coffee shop chain, we can get that under control. It must also be accompanied by prevention and prevention programmes, as I have just said. It's en-and. But let us not have the illusion that the current coffee shops do not lead to very easy access to the stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u453	Maybe one last question: when will there be an evaluation of these terrible experiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u454	It's planned somewhere in the next two years. We really want to try to see what comes out of the evaluation during this cabinet period. I think that the agreement is also to see if we are going to take further steps in this cabinet period. In any case, let me remind you of the political agreements. It's gonna be a sharp evaluation. Then there was a question from Mr Van Kesteren about drug crime. I agree with him that reducing undermining crime calls for a long life of many parties. Organised drug crime takes advantage of the factors that make the Netherlands such an open society and also ensure a successful economy. But this crime also undermines our rule of law and our economy. That is very fundamental and therefore something that concerns us all. That is why we have had long discussions about this in the Cabinet and have provided structuralally significant additional resources for a firm, multi-annual structural approach to reduce organised crime. Prevention is important. How do you prevent it and how do you make sure people don't take that step? But if things do go wrong, then tracking and prosecution and undermining the earning model are important. This includes international cooperation. We have seen the impressive reportage of the mayors of Antwerp and Rotterdam, who visited Colombia and Costa Rica. I thought they shared their insights about that on Sunday. They have also sent a letter, which we will also look very closely at, but it all goes in the same direction. I do not know if that solution is the answer at all. We have to look at it very carefully, but it is a very relevant contribution to the discussion. Then there was a question from Mrs Fox of the Labour Party. The Minister for the Interior has, of course, an important coordinating role for policies affecting co-governments. It is important for fellow governments and for the Empire that policies are enforceable. There is therefore a heavy role of coordination. It is not the case that the Minister of the Interior is a gatekeeper who says that it is not allowed, but it is the case that the Minister of the Interior, both the previous and the present, is so strong that things are going to go wrong. That was true for Mrs Ollongren, but certainly also for the current minister. Then there was the question of the consolidated legal texts as of 1 May. That's not gonna happen on May 1st. It has to be done manually and it is as a generic measure for all amending laws labour intensive and a major burden on the available legislative capacity. Let me do it in such a way that the Minister for Legal Protection is discussing this with the First Chamber and sends a letter in good time with what timing it is possible to do. I can't promise that right now, I'm being reported here under the authority of Franc Weerwind, the Minister for Legal Protection. It is a lot of work, but he is happy to undertake to send a letter with progress as soon as possible. Mr President, there are still a few questions for the second term. There were two of these, but I've already answered them. And, of course, I'm interested in whether or not the Chamber is still filing motions, but I can hardly imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u455	I had another question for the Prime Minister, but I think he accidentally forgot it. That question was about the Secretary of State for Justice, Van der Burg, who talked about "the more asylum seekers, the better." The question to the Prime Minister was whether the cabinet supports this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u456	No, he said something else. He was then alderman of Amsterdam and he said that, in his opinion, asylum seekers in a large city can be more easily received. And: Bring some more to Amsterdam, because that makes it easier for other parts of the country. That's how the verdict was meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u457	Then it remains: the more asylum seekers, the better. Let me ask the question again: does the Prime Minister support such a ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u458	He made this statement in his then position as alderman of Amsterdam thinking that a large city has more facilities and infrastructure to shape the reception of asylum seekers than small municipalities. He said Amsterdam could just take a bigger burden. That's what he meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u459	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u460	That's actually a bit of a weird argument, let me say it neatly, because whether they're in Amsterdam or in Ter Apel...In Ter Apel there are a few hundred in a facility that can only spend 25% of the current number. It is a bit chatty to say that Amsterdam can handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u461	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u462	That's what I'm gonna get to now. Does the Prime Minister want more or less asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u463	We are now exegesing Eric van der Burg as alderman of Amsterdam. The question is whether I support that statement. I have never gone up to the level of the city council leader I hope to reach that one day, but I am not going to comment on that. This was his view as alderman of Amsterdam. I can't do anything with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u464	I had another question about the all-time low gas supplies in the gas roundabout.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u465	I haven't gotten that question yet. Hopefully that official will be noted, but it will come in second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u466	So that question is still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u467	Yeah, absolutely. I just answered a few questions quickly, but there will also be a few other questions. You think I'm doing it alone, but there's still a whole team working with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u468	Mr Koffeman is not done with it either. Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u469	As long as you give orders upstairs, there was another question about Urgenda. Have we reached the target when we simply ignore shipping, aviation and biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u470	I didn't find that first-term question in my set.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u471	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u472	It's a disgrace. So here we go...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u473	That's too bad. Anyway, maybe you can ask the supreme person to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u474	I don't think that's appropriate. But if you mean the supreme person in the room behind this, then you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u475	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u476	The officials are doing fantastic work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u477	I can imagine that the Chamber needs a few minutes' suspension in order to prepare a number of matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u478	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u479	Thank you, Mr President. A heartfelt word of thanks to the Prime Minister. I admire the rigour with which he has answered a flood of questions over the last few hours. I have to say quite honestly: the thought that came to me at the end of his answer was "the old Rutte is all back, but he doesn't shrink." That was actually the brief summary. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for your commitment to the goals that can be settled on the important points on which the cabinet has formulated its ambitions. Two. General principles of good administration: yes, certainly addressed, but that, in addition to some speakers, requires that it be anchored in the official organisation in such a way that we do not repeat the accidents we have talked about. So it takes a little more than that, is my assumption. I would ask the Prime Minister to take a concrete decision on this. What he has spoken a little less about is the great theme of confidence in politics. We are not going to repeat this in the second term, at least I am not, but my question is: would the cabinet not want to reflect on this issue? It has been mentioned by many colleagues. I did the same myself in the first term. It's a multifaceted monster, and it's got a lot to do with everything. Would the cabinet not consider how this confidence in politics can be strengthened in conjunction with implementation and those principles? This seems to me to be crucial to the great task we all face. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a final word about the ugly duckling in this coalition agreement: the unsubstantiated, flat cut in the long term of over 500 million in youth care. I have the honour to present the next motion to the Chamber. The: Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Raven, Mr Janssen, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Koffeman, Mr Schalk and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the arbitration ruling of the Committee of Wise Men provides a good basis for the future system of youth care;]] [[Considering that the cuts in the current cabinet to 500 million in youth care led to a break in the consultation on the future youth care system;]] [[Considers that this austerity is undesirable and that vulnerable young people are entitled, if necessary, to timely and high-quality youth care;]] [[calls on the government to re-establish consultation with the municipalities with a view to achieving a desired reform of the youth care system, without being entrusted with the austerity of the coalition agreement, but based on all the conclusions and recommendations of the Commission of Wise Men,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u480	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make very brief use of my second term, also because I feel that 80% of the time we used in this debate was about things that were discussed in the House of Representatives in about the same way. I think that's a lot. There have also been a series of issues which had nothing to do with the declaration of government. But, Mr President, we are going to talk about our own role in the near future. I'm sure it'll come back on the table. Just a few comments. The VVD Group is very pleased that there is growth in spending on Defense. In this sense, I also support the view expressed by Mr Schalk on this matter. I hope, by the way, that we will never reach 2%. That is a strange statement, but I hope that the economy will always grow more than we spend. The problem is, of course, that if the economy continues to grow, we will fall a little behind 2% each time. The country where the 2% was reached very quickly was Greece. When they were deep in the crisis, they spent more than 2% on defense. The moment the growth strikes again, it passes. This does not mean that we should not carry out our tasks properly in NATO. That's what we're gonna do, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u481	Mr Jorritsma began her speech with the role concept of the Upper House. I do not want to talk about this in broad terms, but I would like to remind her that this debate is not just about the declaration of government, but that we would see it as a substitute for the general political views. We have agreed that width with each other, so your criticism is not justified in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u482	I have to agree with you on this, but that does not mean that there are all kinds of issues that were not included in the budget for this year. I've heard some of them that really had nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u483	I'd like to go along with that, because I was really annoyed by this, too. The First Chamber is a political body with representatives of the people, and Mrs Nanninga does not decide what is and will not be dealt with here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u484	That's right, and neither am I.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u485	This is Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u486	What did I say? Oh, of which the heart is full. I mean, of course, Mrs Jorritsma. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u487	But it applies to both.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u488	I'm glad your heart is more full of Mrs. Nanninga than mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u489	I'm in competition with her in Amsterdam. Probably why this Freudian slip. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u490	Mr. Chairman. I note that Mr Otten does not have a problem with Tata leaving either. The VVD Group hopes that we will manage to preserve Tata for the Netherlands and that it will soon be the most modern steel factory in the world. That would be the best part. Then we're doing really well. It's not just the government that's gonna do that. This is partly the case with the company itself, but I have the feeling that Tata's management really wants to go that way. Finally, on implementation. I was disappointed that, in reply to Mrs Bredenoord's question on the consolidation of legislation, it was said that this cannot be done quickly. I would like to point out that a motion for a resolution has already been adopted in this Chamber, but it simply does not happen. I think that's weird. Why are these legal lawyers waiting for the laws to be consolidated until we dealt with them? That's bullshit, because we can't change tittel or jotto. The law always stays the way it is. It gives us really big problems if we want to judge a law properly and also to see if there are any effects on its implementation. I think we have a special task right there. I actually hope that Mrs Bredenoord will table her motion. Then the Minister of... Oh, I'm sorry it's slipping away now. It is easier for me to say this, Mr Weerwind, because he was my mayor. He then has a little support to urge the other ministries to do so. The excuse that the legal lawyers would not have time for it is also nonsense. Because when it is dealt with and dealt with here, it must also be consolidated. So I just don't understand where the problem is. And then finally. Yeah, I shut up earlier, too. That's right, but it's always a bit of a trade-off between making it bigger or leaving it small? Sometimes I choose to keep it small. And then really, after all. I also asked about the workload. The Prime Minister has replied neatly, but I also asked: should you not follow it a little bit in the coming time to see what the effects of the now chosen somewhat broader stance are? I don't disagree with that. But I always thought it was pretty easy that I didn't have to consult with someone else for every single thing. So work pressure and a lot of people don't automatically mean less work pressure. We also wish the whole cabinet every success in the many work they have to do in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u491	Thank you, Mrs Jorritsma. Mr Van der Linden has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u492	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Considering the first term of this debate today in this tasteful atmosphere, my group believes that there are major political differences in this house, but also large similarities. Mr Rosenmöller of GroenLinks stepped down this morning on the subject of these agreements. Here's what he remembered. I'll translate it into our own words. One. There is a broad middle group of parties applauding for ever more European political union and unification. Two. There is a broad middle group of parties who do not really think it is necessary for the Dutch asylum and migration policy to be thoroughly modernised. Three. There is a broad middle group of parties who believe that there is a climate crisis that the Netherlands must and can solve and where some realism does not pass. Slightly bitterly it was added that it was a pity that the Labour Party and GroenLinks were not allowed to participate in VVD and CDA, because they are so incredibly in agreement. The analysis that VVD, CDA, Partij van de Arbeid and GroenLinks agree so well on these major themes, shares my group, even though there is a very large group of Dutch people who think very differently. That group does not want a far-reaching political union, but a sovereign Netherlands. That group wants the human dimension to be central. That group wants a strict, humane and just asylum and migration policy. That group is in favour of a sober and realistic energy policy. There is therefore agreement and differences in this house on three main issues: the EU, climate and immigration. In the first term, my group also noted broad agreement on a number of other issues, namely broad resistance to the decoupling of the AOW and the minimum wage and broad resistance to substantial cuts in youth care. That resistance is even so broad that there may be a majority for it in this house. Not perhaps, by the way; we've just heard. With regard to the decoupling of the AOW, many in this Chamber clearly stated in the first term and asked the cabinet to really refrain from this and to say so, but unfortunately this did not happen in the first term of the cabinet. That is why we are tabling the next motion. The: Mr Van der Linden, Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Koffeman, Mr Schalk, Mr Janssen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Raven, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government does not want to link the level of the AOW to the increase in the minimum wage;]] [[Whereas the AOW, the assistance and the minimum wage form the basis of our welfare state;]] [[Whereas an increasing number ofzzp's and flex-job workers will not, or will hardly, build up supplementary pensions and will be fully dependent on the AOW after retirement;]] [[noting that the decline in purchasing power of many older people is even more affected by the decoupling of minimum wage AOW;]] [[Whereas the linking of the three elements provides predictability and simplicity in implementation;]] [[calls on the government to give the AOW equal treatment to the minimum wage and assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u493	Then there's a little observation of the power of administration. With this coalition agreement, this cabinet wants to tackle the climate and nitrogen crisis by means of large-scale equipment, with tens of billions. But in this country, VAT on fruit and vegetables cannot just be brought to 0%, because "what about the pasta sauce" according to the Prime Minister today. As far as we are concerned, that sums up the administrative power a little bit. Mr. Chairman. Then I will conclude with another topic that has been discussed a great deal here today, namely the new governance culture. I have one more question and one more appeal. The question is about the AOW decoupling, for which the motion has just been tabled. Can the Prime Minister explain again and clarify how the issue of the AOW decoupling came into the declaration of government? Has that been a conscious choice? Then whose point did this come from? Who brought that in? How did others react to that? We would like to hear more about this, so that we, as non-formative parties in this house, but also society, get a little more insight into how such a controversial position, such a austerity, is achieved. Would the Prime Minister like to tell us a little bit more about that? That's what we're looking forward to. Then the call. As far as my group is concerned, it would be a good start to the new administrative culture if the cabinet were to pick up and implement the gloves put forward in this Chamber with regard to the AOW, the loan system and youth care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u494	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u495	I see I have one minute. That's ample measure. I don't have any motions, so I don't need many words. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive response. He knows I respect him very much as a politician, as a professional. He knows I respect him very much as a politician and a professional. He put that back on the line today. I also admire his unspeakable patience in these kinds of meetings. I want to give him one thing. A lot has been said, including from my side. I would ask him to consider what I said about the AOW and, in consequence, pensions in a special way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u496	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Vos on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u497	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have had a good debate today. I did hear some complaints from trade union K about the length of the debate and that, despite the fact that there are 15 of us, we can talk for as long as we can talk on the other side. It's no different. A number of things have happened here. I am particularly interested in Mr Van Kesteren's contribution from the CDA, because I see some movement in terms of capital taxes, pensions and the AOW. Something which also gave me great joy was that older people and young people were not played out against each other. We didn't let that happen. This Chamber has argued with fire and passion for the interests of young people, and with fire and passion for the interests of the elderly and working people. I think this went really well. The AOW discussion has at some point become a very financial discussion, but my point was: this is about our society, about the basis we have laid under our welfare state. It is also about a question of trust. I would like the government, in its reflections on how to compensate people financially or not, to consider that reliability and predictability are very important for the middle groups in the Netherlands, and indeed for everyone in the Netherlands, including those on high and low incomes. This is an income-independent scheme. It will only be worn if we do not make it dependent on income. In this sense, I agree with the motion that has already been tabled by a majority and by Mr Van der Linden. We have also talked about the unlucky generation, the students who have suffered quite a lot over the past few years, I cannot say otherwise under the corona crisis, under loneliness but also under the loan system. It's a very diverse group. The Prime Minister said the Minister of Education is talking to students, but he didn't give any room for that minister to move. I can imagine students coming up with very good proposals to do justice to everything they have missed, and that this might cost a little more than the 1 billion. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. The: Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Raven, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Janssen, Mr Schalk, Mr Otten and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is broad support for the re-introducing of a basic grant;]] [[Whereas students who have been studying since 2015 have benefited little from the promised investment in education, have had to do with full lecture halls and have received virtually full online education during the corona crisis;]] [[noting that a study debt still weighs in applying for a mortgage;]] [[noting that €1,000 compensation does not reflect the disadvantages these students have suffered from the loan system;]] [[calls on the Government to examine other possibilities for compensation for these students and to inform the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u498	I wish the government every success in carrying out the various motions tabled here by a large majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u499	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord, on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u500	Mr. Chairman. As you have heard, I indicated in my first term that I am looking at this debate with reservations. Where the strength and importance of this Chamber lie, I indicated, is in monitoring the quality of legislation. I have listened to the Prime Minister about delivering consolidated legal texts to the laws that we are discussing, not all laws, not the hammer pieces. His commitment to delivering consolidated laws, as Mrs Jorritsma said, has a certain amount of content, but that is really important if we are to be able to do our job better. That is why I have tabled the next motion, with a slightly longer deadline for its implementation. The: Mr Bredenoord, Mr Backer, Mr Jorritsma-Lebbink, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Niek Jan van Kesteren, Mr Huizinga-Heringa and Mr Mei Li Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the quality of legislation should be a permanent focus of attention of the First Chamber;]] [[considers that the full consolidated legal text can promote the quality of the assessment;]] [[considers that proposals which a committee decides to examine should henceforth be presented to the First Chamber in a consolidated form;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the House of Representatives of the First Chamber, to develop a practical approach to this principle by 1 October 2022 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Where the power of this Chamber does not lie, therefore, there is a pre-sorting of concrete cabinet intentions, with no legislation in place. I myself think that was not always good today, but we have time to change that. And, of course, every colleague is concerned with his or her own commitment, but I have, quite deliberately, been reluctant to take part in it. But let me also take it positively. In many areas of government policy, the Prime Minister has been able to give more context to the choices made by the government than we have only been able to read from the declaration of government. So that's profit. Thank you to the government for that. What the debate has shown is how great the government's ambitions are and how great the dilemmas are. Whether it is climate, education, taxation or security policy in Europe, the cabinet, but we too, are facing enormous challenges. The Prime Minister spoke earlier of a transformative cabinet. Those transitions are really needed, for now and for the longer term. I wish the Cabinet much wisdom with these tasks. I would like to say that the future seat is attached to it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u502	I have a question for Mrs Bredenoord, who believes that he concludes here where the power of the First Chamber lies or is not. In her view, this would not lie in pre-sorting choices that still have to be made in terms of legislation. We are all representatives of the people here. Three motions have just been tabled by a majority. How can you come to that conclusion, when tonight is exactly how it works? That's the power of the First Chamber, isn't it? Aren't you shorting us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u503	I have dealt with this very extensively in the first period, with a great deal of reference to the parliamentary system committee and to all the evaluations that we have carried out ourselves. Look, we've set up our parliamentary democracy with a two-bedroom system. Nowhere in the world do you see a two-chamber system in which those chambers share the same view of the task, also constitutionally. You have to make a clear distinction, where it is quite clear that the MPs are directly elected and have a completely different political mandate from us. We've been kicked. We have the task of assessing the quality of legislation. Especially in situations like this, i.e. situations where there are indeed no political majorities here, it is very important to keep in mind that we are not going to have the entire debate from the House of Representatives about this. We really have another role, which is incredibly important for the checks-and-balances in the system. I have also mentioned some examples, such as the premium affair. I really think that we can have added value in looking carefully at legislation. Every now and then we also have to call the bell, as an emergency braking procedure: this has to be returned or does not conform to the quality. Many insights from the last few years have shown that there may be a role for the Upper House, but it is certainly different from that of the Lower House, as is our mandate and legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u504	That is clearly a political view of the D66 Group. In addition, this Chamber is a truly representative body. What we're doing here in this house, isn't it people's representatives? Or do you really think that we will no longer have the role of a representative of the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u505	I made this very clear in the first term. It is also a normative consideration, and that includes political ideology. But we are not representatives of the people like those of the House of Representatives. If people very much want to have the political primacy with a direct mandate, then they must be able to stand in front of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u506	I would like to take that up, because I do not think there is any mention in the Constitution that the First Chamber is responsible for the quality of legislation. The First Chamber is a political, representative body. Whether we've been kicked out or chosen directly, I don't think that's gonna change anything at all. That vision of D66 seems to me to be legally and constitutionally untenable. That is what I wanted to see in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u507	I'm repeating myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u508	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u509	No, let's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u510	There is not so much about it in the coalition agreement, and that is on the agenda today, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u511	I've heard this with some concern. I do not have much to add to what colleagues have said critically. Let me just say today that the Federal Republic has at least a Lower House, a First Chamber, which is the Bundesrat and the Bundesverfassungsgericht. That is actually a jewel of democracy and parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u512	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u513	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I now give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u514	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have a lot of speaking time, so I shall be very brief. Following the reply of the Prime Minister, thank you for that, the PVV Group has nevertheless come to the conclusion that it is necessary to give this temporary plenary room more cachet with a national symbol. For example, we are reminded that we are here in front of the Netherlands in the first place. This is not so much a call to the government, but rather to the First Chamber itself. Of course we have General Political Considerations and then you can basically put any subject on the table. In the Lower House, the SGP and the PVV have jointly tabled a motion for a national flag in the plenary. Together with the SGP, I will therefore table the next motion. It was co-signed by Mr. Schalk of the SGP. The: Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Bezaan, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that on 2 November 2017, the Lower House of States General, the Van der Staaij/Wilders motion (34775, nr. 45) was adopted with the following aims:]] [["Whereas the national flag has a beautiful and clear function as a symbol of the nation in the Chamber of Parliament;]] [[noting that it has long been a very good use in most countries to hang the flag;]] [[considers that the national tricolor deserves a place in the chamber of the House of Representatives in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Bureau to take steps to ensure that the national flag is made visible in the plenary of the Dutch Parliament, and to proceed to the order of the day."]] [[noting the lack of a national flag in the Chamber of the First Chamber of the States-General;]] [[noting that the present temporary housing of the First Chamber of the States General lacks national symbols in the plenary room of the First Chamber at the Binnenhof, where, for example, the Rijksleeuw has been installed in the hall;]] [[Whereas the same arguments apply to the Chamber of the First Chamber as those put forward in the Van der Staaij/Wilders motion;]] [[Whereas, as part of the States-General, the First Chamber also forms part of the Parliament as referred to in the motion;]] [[calls on the Houses Committee, in consultation with the College of Seniors, to take steps to ensure that the national flag is made visible in the plenary of the First Chamber of the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u515	No, I read the first part of the motion in the House of Representatives and this is how I submit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u516	Oh, for a second there, I thought it was about stacking, but it's not. You were talking about the Bureau. The First Chamber doesn't know that. Oh, I understand now that you were talking about the Presidium in the House of Representatives. Excuse me. By the way, I would like to remind you that the Dutch lion is indeed incorporated in the weapon of the First Chamber, which is visible to you there, if I am well informed. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u517	Then I have one more comment. It's about qualifications. When I give qualifications to directors, they are always well-founded. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u518	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u519	Thank you, Mr President. In this second term, I would like to repeat what was the rush of my first-term message. That is the main challenge for the cabinet, as far as I am concerned, is to regain the confidence of the citizens. That is why I was finally satisfied with the debate on youth care, because I have understood the Prime Minister so that, although he cannot give an opening on the eve of the negotiations, he has promised me that he will certainly make a gesture to ensure that the VNG and other partners return to the negotiating table. I'm glad. I hope that will succeed quickly and we will soon see that reform table again at work. I said that the coalition agreement only talks about the Lower House, not about the Upper Chamber or even about the States-General. The Prime Minister has explained that the background to this is that it is now about the coalition agreement. This is closed with the House of Representatives. Nevertheless, I believe that strengthening the democratic rule of law is also important in the First Chamber. That's why I have the next motion. The: Mr Huizinga-Heringa, Mr Bredenoord, Mr Backer and Mr Rosenmöller proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the democratic rule of law is the foundation of our society;]] [[noting that the Cabinet has expressed its wish to strengthen independent supervision and democratic control of the executive;]] [[whereas both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber are part of that democratic control;]] [[noting that the structural financing of, inter alia, the Registry, Analysis and Research Service and Bureau of Legislation is being strengthened in the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the government, where it looks at the strengthening of the Lower House, to include an analysis of the necessary reinforcement of the Upper Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u520	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his comprehensive reply and, of course, for listening to the other ministers for their patience and souffling the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u521	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. Then I give the floor to Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u522	Mr President, I'm missing a minute. I was supposed to have two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u523	You were supposed to have one minute, but if one of them goes over it...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u524	It's possible. I'm gonna miss ten seconds already. Thank you for your leniency. Mr. Chairman. The fact that nothing is done about the power inequality is a bone in the throat of the SP. That is why I welcome the initiative legislative proposal tabled by GroenLinks, SP and PvdA in the House of Representatives. We look forward to that appearing here as well. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment to a maximum effort to halve child poverty in this cabinet period. I understand the complexity, I say to the Minister for Poverty Policy, that it concerns several departments and municipalities. But for children, every day counts. We must never forget that. Thank you also for the Prime Minister's response to the fact that extracurricular parents are getting back what needs to be returned and that the content is guiding and not the budget. Thank you also for the Prime Minister's commitment, although we still need a follow-up, that the starting point is not to subsidise what can be required. I'd always like to be more specific. Mr. Chairman. Then about youth care and about the question I didn't seem to have asked, but I did ask only in a different context, to make it equally complex. Young people waiting on a waiting list when they need help have lost confidence. The question is how the cabinet is going to fix this, because these young people feel abandoned. The picture that seemed to arise for a moment that young people are change in a broader discussion with the VNG no longer counts. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the students...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u525	A coalition meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u526	We want to do all the answers right, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u527	Maybe it's the right order to hear the questions first. The motion on the students, as I mentioned in the first term, was not only about the students with a debt at DUO, but also about those students who have borrowed or worked extra and have therefore been delayed in their studies. Having said that, when I look back at this crisis and recovery agreement, as I mentioned it, I have a picture that was very visual. It was an image from the television series The Crown, in which, following a crisis, English Prime Minister Howard Wilson sits with the Queen and says: Your Majesty, our job is to calm more crises than we create. In that spirit, I look forward to consultations with this government over the next three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u528	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u529	Mr. Chairman. Over the last 12 hours, we have had a good insight into the cabinet's plans for the next three years. The Netherlands is going all the way. It will be the biggest renovation ever, more than the delta plan and the entire land consolidation together. Everything is calculated exactly: how many hectares of forest, how many farmers, how many cows, so much manure, so much nitrogen from cars, so much nitrogen from aviation within so many meters of every isolated heath shrub. A five-year plan of the former Soviet Union is nothing to the cabinet's three-year plan. Everything is planned except for one thing. Every detail is there, but one thing is not: how many immigrants enter the country. All we know is that there's gonna be a lot of them. And they're all going to emit CO, and they all need nitrogen for their food production. They don't take money. They all need schools, they all need care and they all need homes. But how many are coming is the only thing we don't have a policy for. We'll see. Mr. Chairman. The group of Forum for Democracy therefore sees one very large white spot on the map of the new Netherlands as the cabinet sketches. The white stain is the people, because they're not on it. This does not seem to us to be a sensible policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u530	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u531	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering our questions. I had already indicated that one question remained unanswered about Urgenda and the excluded parts. He has now passed it on to the above him. There's one other question that hasn't been answered. During the pandemic, there was a greater gap between rich and poor. Maybe I missed the answer to my question on that. We also discussed the tax authorities for a moment. That was not entirely to my satisfaction and therefore I shall table the next motion. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Schalk, Mr Raven, Mr Janssen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Frentrop, Mr Rosenmöller and Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Tax Administration is dealing with inadequate ICT systems and lack of human resources;]] [[Whereas this means that necessary fiscal measures must wait too long for implementation;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything necessary to get the ICT systems and staffing of the Tax Administration in order as soon as possible, and to report to the Court on its progress on a quarterly basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u532	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a second motion. It's about the gambling ads. The: Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Janssen and Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, since the opening of the online gambling market, there has been a significant increase in the number of hours spent on online gambling sites and that consumers are faced with a large number of unfocused advertisements for remote gambling;]] [[Whereas the promotion of gaming was not the aim of legalising online gambling, but is now in fact the result, with potentially significant negative social consequences, such as financial problems and addiction problems;]] [[Whereas the large number of advertisements is disproportionate to the objective of the Remote Gambling Act, namely to achieve channelization to legal offers;]] [[Whereas, despite several requests from the Parliament for a ban on unfocused advertising of high-risk games, the Cabinet has not yet introduced such a ban;]] [[calls on the Government, in the run-up to a legal ban on unfocused advertising for high-risk games of chance, to reach a limited window time of one hour per day in the shortest possible time, allowing up to one advertising for games of chance per block of advertising on radio and TV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u533	Mr President, on a point of order. Normally, in the second term, the time is stopped when motions are filed. That didn't happen here, so I'd like to table two more motions. The: Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to various judgments, trade in nitrogen space leads to undesirable situations;]] [[Whereas a large number of provinces have ceased or are considering doing so as a result of this;]] [[calls on the Government to ban trade in nitrogen space nationwide until undesirable side-effects have been identified and can be avoided in close cooperation with Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u534	Mr. Chairman. Then I have one final motion, and it's about student funding. My group's commitment is that students who are not to blame for the debt that they now have should be excused and that they should be treated equally with the study funding that was used before and after. To that end, I shall table the next motion. The: Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas students who studied until 2015 received an average of €14,000 in basic grant for four years of study;]] [[whereas students had to borrow the money that a student would have received from the basic grant for the introduction of the system between 2015 and 2023 by introducing the loan system;]] [[Whereas students are likely to receive the same amount from 2023 on completion of the cabinet plan to re-introduce the grant;]] [[calls on the Government to properly compensate the injured students in such a way that the compensation is equivalent to the grants to the students covered by the basic grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u535	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are not easily agreed, but at least we are in dialogue with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u536	Yeah, for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u537	Yeah, we're looking forward to that, too. Surely this is a special day in this Chamber. I've been in the Lower House before and now here. I am pleased to note that for the first time in a parliament there are bridges between young and old. Broad support for the care of youth, broad support for AOW and pension, in particular AOW. I hope this is a signal to the cabinet that it is here, where it has no majority, building bridges with us in the First Chamber. I welcome the words of Mr Van Kesteren. He said in the first term: "Get rid of the AOW and pensions in particular. Indexation should also be possible." I am also pleased with what Mrs Vos said about the AOW and with the fact that today we do not have that contradiction between young and old. This contradiction is often there and leads to nothing. Finally, Mr President. In the event of low inflation, non-indexing of pensions in recent years may still be bearable. But in the event of an explosion of inflation of 10% to 12%, which is partly due to an explosion in gas prices, it is unbearable not to index this year, just like last year and next year. Mr Van Kesteren has already made it quite clear, but my appeal to the cabinet remains: weigh absolutely the importance of indexing pensions. I have given an example of this. Mr. Chairman. That general measure of governance becomes a dead sparrow. Perhaps it will help to change the level of policy coverage to the current level of coverage in the case of the 105, but that does not seem to us to be feasible now, also because of the stock exchange. Come up with a proposal to index pensions this year. Finally, Mr President. In December, a motion was passed just before Christmas, which was widely supported by the entire opposition to raise the AOW once by €200 in 2022. Perhaps that should be a little more, given the much higher inflation rate than at that time estimated. But also consider this in the next few weeks to come up with a package. After all, inflation is leading to an emergency situation for young and old, for all our citizens. Purchasing power gets a huge blow. This requires emergency measures that may be contained in a package of AOW, pension and taxes. I hope that the Prime Minister and his cabinet, after this united Chamber, will take the main line of this debate and our concerns on this point and join us in building a bridge to a better future for young and old.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u538	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Schalk of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u539	Mr President, thank you very much and, of course, thanks to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. To good use in SGP circles I have three more points. The first is an unanswered question. I just found out. I had asked if Secretary of State Van Rij would really tackle the gap between one- and two-earners and whether he would look at the marginal pressure among the lowest paid. That is the first point. The second point. The Prime Minister was very direct in his reply when it was in the context of poverty policy about withdrawing the bill on non-indexing child benefit. I was sorry to hear that. That's why the next motion. The: Mr Schalk, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Koffeman, Mr Janssen, Mr Mei Li Vos, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Otten, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law 35845 on "non-indexing basic child benefit amount for the years 2022, 2023 and partly over 2024 or until the intended coverage has been achieved' has been accepted by the House of Representatives;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Cabinet did not respond in good time to the preliminary report issued by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, and also indicated that non-indexing could not take place as of 1 January 2022, but that the legislative process could be prosecuted without delay;]] [[Considering that the price increase is currently significant, with inflation above 7%, which can lead to substantial purchasing power reductions for households, and that non-indexing has long-term effects;]] [[Considering that families with children, in particular in the lower income groups, are severely affected by non-indexation, leading to an increasing number of children falling below the poverty line, contrary to the government's ambition to halve the number of children in poverty;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the legislative proposal 35845 on the non-indexing of basic child benefit for the years 2022, 2023 and in part 2024, or until the intended coverage has been achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u540	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You gave the motion a very nice letter. My third point concerns the lesson I would like to give to the Prime Minister. That's what I promised in my first term. It was about the boy, the mole and the fox. Now for the meeting with the horse. As the horse also travels through the wilderness, a conversation starts: "What is the bravest thing you've ever said?" Asked the boy. "Help!" answered the horse. Mr President, I hope the Prime Minister heard it: 'Help!' "Is that brave, asking for help?" "Yes, because asking for help doesn't mean you're giving up," said the horse. "It means you refuse to give up." Let that be a lesson both to us and to parliamentarians and to the newly-appointed government, because precisely the vulnerability of the aid seeker makes him or her a powerful leader. It's not a sign of weakness when you ask for help. It could be a sign of dependence on your colleagues, on your officials, on Parliament, perhaps. And more importantly, ask for help in dependence on God. Mr. Chairman. I certainly do not want to compare the beginning of the cabinet with the beginning of a divine service, but the words that sound in the church every Sunday are words of dependence: "Our help is in the name of God, who made heaven and earth, who keeps faithful and does not abandon what His hand began." I wish the government every success in this respect. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u541	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u542	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister mentioned the "remarkable piece of modern art." My first impression when I first entered this room was that of the periodic table of elements. I got a déjà vu from my chemistry lab, but that aside. Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The Prime Minister today tried to frame our observations with all sorts of spins and tricks about "leveling" and "right-wing VVDs." I advise the Prime Minister to look back on my first term. That's exactly what I meant by lack of intuition and timing. What is needed now is a rapid and substantial reduction in the burden on middle incomes and lower incomes, because they are now in difficulty. They cannot wait until the cabinet has time to do something about this. I have one motion on that. I'll file it in a minute. I notice that Tata is an open nerve, especially at the VVD. There it seems that the consequences of this left-wing coalition agreement have not yet been properly internalised. We shall therefore come back to this at a later date. As has been said, what is needed now is a rapid recovery in purchasing power through tax cuts for middle income and low income in particular, and also through tax simplification. That's why I'm filing the next motion. This motion replaces an earlier motion. I'll get to that in a minute. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Otten c.s. motion on a study on tax simplification (35302, letter N), which calls for a comparison of the well-functioning system of a significant tax reduction (personal allowance) for low and middle incomes in England, was adopted by the Eerste Kamer on 17 December 2019;]] [[whereas the Netherlands now urgently needs a simpler and more transparent tax system, which provides clarity for taxpayers, can increase economic dynamism and growth, resulting in less complexity in implementation, due to rapidly rising inflation and rapidly rising energy prices;]] [[noting that the study on a simpler tax system called for by the motion adopted (35302, letter N) and on which commitments have been made by the cabinet to the First Chamber has still not been completed and has not yet been issued;]] [[invites the Government to implement the adopted motion 35302, letter N, and to forward the study to the Upper Chamber by 1 May 2022 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u543	Mr President, this motion replaces the motion by letter L (35927) of 'Low taxes'. So it's withdrawn. This motion replaces that held motion with letter L.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u544	If I understand correctly, Mr. Otten, the motion with letter Q replaces the previously filed motion with letter L (35927). I note that this motion is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u545	Correct. Then we wish the Cabinet good luck. We are still waiting for the question on gas stocks to be answered. The Prime Minister would come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u546	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Then I give the floor to Mr Raven on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u547	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Jorritsma complained about the fact that there was talk of matters not mentioned in the government statement. I think that's a little weird. It is up to the Chamber to draw attention to matters which have not been given sufficient importance in the declaration of government. I think it is important that they have been on the agenda, especially when it comes to the biggest financial blunder in parliamentary history, not giving out 13 years of indexation. Mr. Chairman. Restoring trust, that's what the OSF's story was about. If you want to restore trust, you have to show courage. Today, courage has been shown by, among other things, the CDA group chairman, Mr Van Kesteren, who very strongly takes a somewhat different position within the coalition. I'm fine with that. I would like to ask the other coalition participants to do the same when matters are being appointed. Show courage, and we can change those mistakes. I have two more questions for the cabinet. Is the Cabinet prepared to provide a compensation calculation with the total financial consequences for pensioners for the non-indexation of pensions over the period 2009-2021? The second question. Is the Cabinet prepared to develop variants for the way in which this damage can be compensated once? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u548	Thank you, Mr. Raven. For the record, and for the Acts, in agreement with Mrs Bredenoord, the word 'Presidium' has been replaced by 'Housework Committee' in the motion for a resolution with letter I. I take it there is no objection to that with the Members of Parliament. Prime Minister, before I ask you if you have the opportunity to respond immediately, I would first like to ask if one of the Members wishes to speak in the second term. That is not the case. Then I'll look at the Prime Minister. I understand you need 15 minutes to prepare for your response. I'm suspending the meeting until 10:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u549	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u550	Mr President, thank you. Before I get to the motions, I have a few more questions to answer. First the question of whether we have achieved the objective of Urgenda if we include biomass, shipping and aviation. Shipping and aviation are global emissions that are not included in national targets. They are also not part of the 25% of the Urgendavonnis. They are therefore not part of the monitoring of national targets. This is also in line with the IPCC monitoring methodology. Biomass is considered climate neutral according to the agreements within the IPCC. Then there is the question: why does the Netherlands still have to wait years for a high-speed line via Aachen and Liège? The cabinet is committed to improving accessibility and cross-border connections. In the short term, we improve the connection from Aachen to Heerlen and Maastricht by allowing this train to continue to Liège and, shortly thereafter, to have a second express train run per hour on this route. For the long term, the ambition is to have an intercity train from Eindhoven to Aachen. This will require further adjustments on the track. For the line Zwolle-Enschede and the connection with Germany further research is carried out as part of the further development of the Future Image OV. This is in addition to what I said in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u551	The Prime Minister was very quick to answer, but only 30% of the question had been answered. The Prime Minister, who is also a teacher from time to time, knows that you scored on a scale from zero to ten than a three. According to the Prime Minister, the IPCC says you can ignore biomass. I don't know if the judge found that in the Urgendavonnis, too. In addition, I asked about pollution caused by shipping and aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u552	That's what I called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u553	Those are out of the question, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u554	Shipping and aviation are global emissions and they are not included in national targets. They are not part of the 25% of the Urgendavonnis. They are also not part of the monitoring of national targets. This is in line with the IPCC monitoring methodology.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u555	Are they also excluded from the Urgendavonnis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u556	I don't know, but at least they're not part of the 25% of the Urgendavonnis. That's what it says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u557	Remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u558	Then there is the Nanninga Group on the background to the decoupling of the AOW increase and the minimum wage in the coalition agreement. I do not, of course, go into the details of the negotiations that are taking place in confidence. What I can say is that this is the outcome of a process in which a number of parties wanted to raise the minimum wage further than other parties. In the end, it was agreed that all this should be done in a sensible way. Then there was Mr Rosenmöller's second-term question on the importance of living up to the general principles of good governance in implementation. That is quite right. It may be well regulated in the law on paper, but in practice, in implementation, it still has to be done, in the relationship between government and citizen. That often goes well, but it is not self-evident. This requires our attention and that is why the Work on Implementation, initiated by the previous cabinet, is also continued by this cabinet. This is, as honest as we should be, a long-term job. It is also in line with the Bosman report, which results from the Committee of Inquiry of the House of Representatives. Then the gas roundabout. This is about the gas storage Bergermeer, which is owned by TAQA and is filled by Gazprom. To what extent it is filled is to TAQA and Gazprom. Gazprom did not do this this year, both in the Netherlands and not in comparable stores in Germany and Austria. Then there was Mr Raven's question: can you make damage calculations of all years not index and compensate? Balanced income trends and purchasing power are examined annually. There is also an eye for the elderly and the non-indexation has always been included. If older people are lagging behind negatively, measures have been taken, e.g. raising the elderly discount by €55 in 2021. That leaves me with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u559	Yeah, about the gas roundabout. How much is it filled for now? The idea was that we were going to invest a lot in underground storage for situations where there would be a shortage of gas. I understand that it is now 20% filled and that you cannot use part of that gas because it is necessary to keep the pressure on it. How much percent is that gas roundabout filled and how much percent of that is cushion gas to keep the pressure in the system? And is that all owned by Gazprom? Those were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u560	This goes far beyond the debate on the coalition agreement. I've been able to squeeze this out of the system with all the pillow gas in it, but that's all I have. Let us just discuss this in the debates on Climate and Energy. I really can't get that out of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u561	I find it worrying that the cabinet does not seem to give priority to this type of important strategic energy provision. I would have liked to have noticed that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u562	Bergermeer is Gazprom property. This isn't about the other gas deposits, like Norg. The gas roundabout hits Bergermeer. That's the property of TAQA. It's filled by Gazprom. It's up to them whether they put gas in it or not. They are doing the same in Germany and Austria. That's a little bit separate from other gas deposits.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u563	No. The whole idea was that the gas roundabout, which also runs through Groningen et cetera. It's a roundabout, a circle throughout the Netherlands was meant to secure the energy supply for cases like we now have with Russia and so on. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to pay more attention to this, because this is of great strategic importance for our economy and our energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u564	I was very curious about the wonderful commitment I would get in terms of the marginal pressure and gap between single-earners and two-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u565	I haven't given it yet. That's a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u566	That is a very important question. It would be great if, after all these years, we could now have a good commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u567	We have different views on this. You can see that this cabinet is really trying to narrow that gap further. That is, of course, a point that the Christian Union brings in. At the same time, we are, of course, still dealing with the further reduction of the reference minimum wage and its effects. These are, of course, counter-productive effects. It is not an isolated goal to achieve a tie-up, but we are certainly trying to find a balanced balance. To be honest, I think we do the same with this cabinet. Thank you very much for the booklet I'm about to receive. I'll keep asking for help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u568	Even with this answer, I will tell the Prime Minister that you will receive that booklet. But here's what I'm asking. Let me not talk about the one-earner, but about the marginal pressure. It's actually very simple. If you earn €100 more while you have an income of €20,000...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u569	That is always separate from the point of the one- and the two-earner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u570	Yes. If you earn €100 more per month, you will have to pay €80 tax. That's the huge, extreme marginal pressure. Is there really nothing we can do about that, especially for the low-paid people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u571	This is, of course, one of the aspects that we are looking at when we look at the precise allocation of the 3 billion remaining for the reduction of the burden on middle incomes and on lower incomes. Of course, we have two objectives. So we are going to look at this whole thing, but we all still have to work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u572	Thank you. Then we're gonna work with this one...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u573	We don't solve the entire marginal pressure, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u574	Mr Otten had a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u575	Yes, I have a brief question, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen was so courteous that I could take the lead. Still, about the gas. I understand that the Prime Minister doesn't have those answers all ready right now. What I'm saying is, it's very important. Can the Prime Minister send us a letter explaining this in greater detail? This is very important for the economy and energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u576	It's not that. This is Bergermeer. This isn't about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u577	I'm talking about the whole gas...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u578	Yeah, but that's different. That question wasn't asked. Let's just get that... I'll ask the Minister for Climate and Energy to take it with him when he comes back with an update. We don't have the officials anymore to send separate letters. Let's not do that. This will take an enormous amount of time: then three officials will be working for two days to send a letter. However, the Minister regularly sends progress reports in the field of climate and energy. Then I ask him to give us an insight into this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u579	Mr Van der Linden asked the question about the decoupling in the coalition talks, the coalition agreement. I have to say that no election programme, not even any of the four parties here today, said that there would be decoupled if the minimum wage were to be increased. The fact that the minimum wage would be increased was in all election programmes, even in that of more parties. My question is, how is that possible? If it is stated in the election programmes that the minimum wage should be increased, why does it not say in any election programme that this decoupling should be done? How can you just say here: "I'm not going to tell you what happened; we wanted to raise the minimum wage, but obviously didn't increase the AOW"? Isn't that just folklore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u580	In the election programmes there were very different things about the wml and the extent to which it remained linked to the benefit in full width. There were different things in all the election programs. Moreover, my experience is that, when you start negotiating with each other, you are sometimes confronted with the facts, which often go even further than the various electoral programmes. One of these facts is that we have said together here: it costs a lot of money, billions, to fully link up this increase in the wml. We have to make choices in scarcity. Are there other ways to ensure that you also get a balanced purchasing power development for the elderly? At that time we opted for the instrument of the old-age discount. We have said of this in the House of Representatives: we are going to look into the whole problem of purchasing power by March, April. There are no taboos, but this is the explanation why we did what we did. So it is not the case that a coalition agreement or a coalition agreement is a staple through four electoral programmes, but Mr Van Rooijen also knows that from his experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u581	Yes, I have experience with the abolition of the Hills Act four years ago when I was in the House of Representatives and got very angry, because that was not in any programme. But D66 insisted, because they were a billion short. That led to a filibuster of mine. You remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u582	With those sunglasses!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u583	Yes. But you said the decoupling costs "billions." May I point out that "billions" and "2 billion" are a big difference? It's 2 billion and there's all kinds of ways to get cover for that. It doesn't have to be special. One of the possibilities I mentioned this afternoon is a broad package. The linking of the AOW is in a law for 40 years, and you can't say now: because the minimum wage is going up and we don't have 2 billion for the AOW, we're just gonna abolish that right. That is final.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u584	We're not abolishing the link either. It stays in place, only let's not sound this increase in the wml. I think that is also real, quite frankly, because the AOW is independent of income. It ends up with everyone, including people with very high incomes. So you spend a few billion, also to people with a very high income, who see that piece of wml increase again in their AOW. If you're looking for people who find that attractive, you must really go looking for the right flank of the VVD. Then I wonder whether it would not be wiser, especially in the case of limited financial resources, to see if there is another way to achieve a balanced purchasing power picture. That is the consideration that I think we have made. Mr Van Rooijen has every right to think of it as a matter of principle, which AOW keeps linked at all times, because that is what he actually says, and so not to release that link once at the time of the increase in the minimum wage. That is also totally honorable. But this is the balance that we have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u585	Thank you. I'm going to finish this now, otherwise we're going to have another discussion that we had this afternoon. No, I'm not giving you the floor. I've got you a lot of interruptions...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u586	I note that the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u587	Mr Van Rooijen, I am not giving you the floor. I shall now give the floor to the Prime Minister for the appreciation of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u588	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The motion on letter D, by Mrs Faber, I would advise against referring to the debate I had just had with Mr Van Rooijen. That is actually a summary of the argument. The motion has been dissuaded. The motion on letter E, by Mr Van Rooijen, not to decouple the AOW from the wml is the same as for the motion on letter D. The motion on letter F, by Mr Rosenmöller, I would like to advise against, also referring to the debate we have had on it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u589	That is, of course, disappointing, but it is not surprising, given the debate. If the motion is passed, can we assume that there will be a quick reaction from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u590	We always respond to the motions. Of course, but first let's see what the vote gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u591	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u592	Then we have the motion on letter G. This refers again to the linking of the AOW to the minimum wage. This also applies to what I just said about the motions on the letters D and E, so I would advise against them. Then I come to the motion on letter H, by Mrs. Vos. I have two problems with that, or a question and a problem. I really have a problem with "confirming that €1,000 compensation does not do justice." If this is gonna stay in there, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. Maybe we can figure that out. I can live with the request, but with the remark that it is within the existing budgetary frameworks. As the motion has now been formulated, I must advise against it because of the last 'confirming'. But if Mrs Vos were to delete it, that would change and I interpret the motion in such a way that we can explain it within the existing budgetary frameworks. It is, of course, up to the petitioner to be willing to do so, and then the motion would be Chamber's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u593	Mrs. Vos, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u594	Can you give a little more explanation of what the existing budgetary frameworks are?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u595	The billion that's in front of it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u596	That's what the discussion was about: whether it's billion, so that's $1,000, compensation or not. Should the Minister of Education come up with an appropriate offer with the student organisations that costs more, I would like that to be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u597	I can't promise you that right now. Then I'll have to discourage the motion. I can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u598	Anyway, that was about half the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u599	I understand, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u600	I'm not changing the motion. You have dissuaded them, and then you know what this Chamber thinks of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u601	Exactly. Full understanding. The motion on letter I gets judgment Chamber. The motion on letter J doesn't have to be judged by the government, I guess. It's a motion to the Chamber itself. I would ask Mrs Huizinga to hold the motion on letter K until the letter from the Minister of the Interior is there about strengthening the Lower House and thus also the analysis of the Upper Chamber. I just can't find it in my notes as soon as that letter comes from the Home Secretary. Mrs Huizinga will say that she would like to know, but I assume otherwise they will have to give me that answer now, which is very soon. Otherwise, I would not be advised to refer to a letter from the Minister of the Interior. Is it okay to hold the motion for a moment? Oh, very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u602	I hear "okay."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u603	The motion on letter L gets judgment Chamber. That is the motion by Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u604	Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u605	Koffeman! It was him. Excuse me, I didn't have a name. Then I would like to read the motion as an effort in implementing the agreements in the coalition agreement to strengthen its implementation. Informing the Chamber every three months is a very big burden. I would like to read the motion in such a way that the Chamber is well informed and that the Secretary of State for Taxation will return to Mr Koffeman and the Chamber with the best rhythm for that. I would like to give a somewhat broad interpretation of those three months. I see Mr Koffeman reacting mildly, as always! The lyrics are always leading, but this is how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u606	I said yes quickly, but now I realize you don't know when that letter is coming. I thought, if next week I know when that letter is coming, I can see if I really want to keep the motion on or if it takes too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u607	Then there must be a short note about when the letter comes, so with the timetable of that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u608	That was about the motion on letter K, for completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u609	Yeah, that's about the motion on letter K. I am now admitting that Hanke Bruins Slot, Minister of the Interior, is sending a short note with what the planning of that broader letter is. I just don't have that in the notes here. Then I advise against the motion on banning the trade in nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u610	I think we'll get to the motion on letter M about gambling ads first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u611	Oh, sorry! The motion on letter M is about gambling ads. I'd like to request that that motion be held. The letter from the Minister for Legal Protection is coming, so please hold the motion until that letter arrives. Then I advise the motion to letter N. That is primarily the responsibility of the provinces. We also discussed it in the debate. The motion on letter O I would like to discourage with reference to the debate. The same goes for the motion on letter P. It's about withdrawing the non-indexation of family allowances. This is part of a wide range of measures to increase paid parental leave and improve public services. There is also no cover for their withdrawal. The bill is still in the Chamber. In the short term, there will be a letter containing the state of child benefit. Then we get the motion on letter Q of Mr. Otten. As far as I'm concerned, he's getting judgment room. The coalition agreement sets out the ambition to simplify and reform the tax system and to start with the first steps. I will give the motion judgment Chamber if I may interpret the motion in such a way that the Secretary of State will return to you before 1 May with the state of play of the implementation of the motion of 7 December 2019. I see Mr Otten looking at me with his well-known mildness and thinking: that is good. With that understanding, the motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u612	Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u613	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say something very briefly. For us this is also a special day, because this is the first time that we have presented ourselves with a small piece of the cabinet. Unfortunately, we can't all come now by corona here in the Upper Chamber. I can only say that, as a cabinet, we very much look forward to this cooperation after today, also in order to implement legislation that is necessary for all ambitions for the Netherlands. I think that after the lengthy formation, which has been mentioned here and there in a reflective and evaluative sense and has rightly been made by some Members, this is what we stand for. It's also what the country expects of us now. The plans that have been made are still on paper. It is indeed real now: the hands out of the sleeves and making sure that it comes from our hands. That's what we need all of you for right now. I look forward to working together, not only with the House of Representatives, but also with the Senate. So thank you so much for the hospitality today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u614	Thank you, Prime Minister. I would like to speak briefly to you myself, but first I will formally close the debate and come to the end of the debate on the government statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u615	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. I'll take a look around and see there's approval. It was also a pleasant debate on our part. If things are disrespectful, I'm sorry. Before we reach the end of the sitting, I would like to address you, Prime Minister Rutte. On one case you mentioned, the Chamber has not yet responded. At the beginning of your reply, you referred briefly to the painting of King Willem II, which hung in our room at the Binnenhof. Like the buildings of the First Chamber, that painting was also in need of much-needed renovation. This is why the painting left the Binnenhof in December as the last resident of the Upper House. Now it's just waiting for the last resident to leave the Binnenhof. That is what we are all waiting for. As a historian, you should also know that King Willem II was an art and architecture lover. He would certainly appreciate this room and this work here behind me. In fact, I assumed that you were used to modern art in plenary rooms by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u616	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-7.u617	But I realize that you're always with your back to art elsewhere, so you might have less vision of that. Because you have a look at this work by Navid Nuur, here behind me, and finally a few substantive words about it. Not only does the work refer to our electorate with twelve planes, it will certainly have been noticed by you and with 75 lines to the 75 senators, and not only do the colours all come from the Binnenhof, including the colour gold of our golden ceiling, which I have often seen you staring at, but like politics itself, this work of art is constantly moving. It's not like the artwork actually moves. No, we have to move to see the change. I invite you to do this afterwards, by walking back and forth through the Chamber. Your position in the room determines your image of the work. From one side there is something completely different to the other, and with each other, as in politics, we see the whole. That is Parliament's complementarity. So if you want to understand what your opponent sees, the artist tells us I'm sure you appreciate that, at the end of this debate at least you just have to take the trouble to move into his position. Mutual understanding and respect for each other's opinions is the empathy that is perhaps more important now than ever in politics, and also in this Chamber. You were right about that. It is our responsibility to jointly monitor this empathy, as was the case in today's debate. It is good that you have also drawn attention to this. Thank you all for that.
