ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on nitrogen policy. I warmly welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen, as well as the spokesmen and the people who are following this debate in the public gallery or otherwise. I would like to agree with Members on a large number of interruptions: eight to one another and ten to the rulers. I want to be flexible about that, too. It helps, of course, if the directors also give short and firm answers to the questions asked. I see a number of Members standing at the interrupting microphone, as is customary in a major debate, I would almost say. I shall first give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	This morning we were able to read in NRC about calculations from the Ministry of Finance. That is what we would like to have this debate on. So we can just start, as far as I am concerned, because it is mainly questions that we will want to ask the cabinet. But if they can be there in an hour, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	We'll pass this on to the cabinet. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	We received the card as it looked on June 1st this morning. That card is different from the card we got in the Chamber, so it's the map before the coalition meeting. The Achterhoek has a completely different colour on it and a completely different layout of what needs to be done than is now laid down here in the Chamber. Yesterday, the Minister for Nitrogen said that there will be another card. If you have a farm, it is of course crucial on the basis of which map we are discussing here. That's what the future of your company depends on. So I really want to know from the government: what exactly is the focus of the debate? On what basis should I provide my input? Is that based on one of these three cards, or on none of the cards? I have some time left, because it will take a few hours before my turn, but I would have liked to have answered that question in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	I will also pass this question on to the cabinet. I think it is right that there should be a response to this. Then I suggest that we start the debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	Well, this is a question... It is a question of the debate. We are always very good at debating this. We can also tell a lot of stories, from "Nuclear is no problem" to "an amuse to halve it," but it goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	You want clarification, clarification, at the point you are now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	I want to know what plans are ahead and what we have to decide today. This is not a demonstration; it is a discussion to decide whether or not to take decisions; that can still be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	Sure. I see that the Minister now wishes to answer this question. I'll give the Minister the floor. It is an immediate question of substance, but if you can explain it briefly, we will start afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	I believe that the debate is about the map that has been sent to the National Programme for Rural Areas. That's a map that guides the provinces to get started. Each card is an intermediate position, because we work towards a final card on July 1, 2023. The postcard has been sent at the request of your Chamber to get an insight into whatever cards have been in front of it. But this is a process of continuous refining. As far as I am concerned, the debate is about the map that has been sent as an annex to the National Programme for the Rural Zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. Finally, Mr Omtzigt, and then we start the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's clear. We have two cards now, and you can see some color differences. So it's about this light blue map today, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	That's just what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yes. This means that the comment made yesterday at BNR, namely that the weather is changing, relates to 1 July. So it's not like it's changed in the meantime. I'm just trying to understand the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	The starting point, with the directional goals for the provinces, is the map that was sent along with the National Programme Rural Area, presented on 10 June last. It's more of a profit warning. The card must be inescapablely final on 1 July 2023. That is an iterative process, in which we continuously refine with each other. Each card is in that sense an intermediate step towards further refinement towards 1 July 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you. Let's start the debate now. I thank the Minister for this clarification as a kick-off, and I am the first to give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. The coalition agreement contains fine words about a government that is trustworthy, that is just and that has an eye for human standards. But if I take up the items before me, I wonder whether this also applies to the agricultural sector, to the farming families, for example, very strongly in the Gelderland Valley, but also in other areas. Let me start with the conclusion: those nitrogen plans that lie ahead are a blow to the face of the entire agricultural sector. In many areas, 50% should be reduced to 95% in just seven years. There's no way to do that. That inevitably leads to expropriation dramas. Many provincial leaders also rightly claim the Hague drawing table mentality that speaks of it, a dictation. On a job visit, you talk to a 10-year-old boy who says, "I don't like it at all. Actually, Mom and Dad are in there all day. They don't really want to take care of their cows anymore. I actually want to be a farmer too, but I don't know if I'm in the mood for it anymore." That is what these proposals achieve: that hopelessness, that uncertainty. Where is the test of Article 2 of the Habitats Directive that requires socio-economic impacts to be taken into account? It is appalling that, in the written round of questions, there is still no beginning of an answer to the simple question of whether the plan is feasible. That's unworthy of a good legislator. The thing about human size. Mr. Chairman. The proposal is not fair either. Let me give you one example. In addition to Natura 2000 Meinweg, agriculture has to deliver 70% reduction in emissions. The area is under the smoke of Rockwool, a factory with ammonia emissions equivalent to 60 dairy farms. There are several examples, such as a factory that stays out of the picture on the map, while this is the same ammonia and not even nitrogen oxide. Where are the targets for the other sectors? What's with the two different speeds? And then the reliability. Let me give you one more example. Less than a year ago, Minister Schouten signed a plan at Schiermonnikoog for the intensification of the seven island farmers by 40% reduction. And now, less than a year later, there's a reduction target of scare that doesn't amount to 95%. Is this a reliable policy? And so there are so many questions to ask. How is it possible that the signing-in of land targets did not even take the trouble to see if there was any overload in adjacent nature areas at all? None of that has been taken into account. How is it possible for difficult questions about concrete land objectives to be blamed for the model and for provinces to do justice to it? How is it possible, by the way, that there will be such strong criticism from the provinces? What happened to the administrative alignment? And how is the Minister going to ensure that the PAS cases are legalized as soon as possible? I completely miss the sense of urgency in that, when it is laid down by law. In short, the SGP cannot accept this plan and these goals. The long-awaited perspective letter isn't helping either. With all due respect for the effort, if I consider it to be a success, it is little more than a staple through all kinds of existing subsidy schemes. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen minister keeps saying, "I hate it, but there's no other way." This is typical of the Hague system thinking of which individual families and companies are the victims. In it, the SGP refuses to go along with it. I also oppose the Minister's statement that she has no choice in law. We do have a choice; we can do it differently. The government hopes, by rapidly bringing more areas under critical deposition value, to get rid of legal issues, but will not emission reduction for nature in the short term be at the expense of the much-needed nitrogen space for PAS crises, housing and other projects? In 2030, some of the land on paper is still overloaded and rural areas have to bleed. Mr. Chairman. It can be done by listening carefully to the judge, not with half an ear. The judge merely stated that the nitrogen deposition should not increase and decrease locally, but not how quickly. 50% reduction in emissions by 2030 is a political choice. The Habitats Directive really gives the Minister more room for manoeuvre than it suggests. The SGP wants to take the time and space for the emission reduction for nature and for careful area processes. Unachievable nitrogen targets, including the new 2030 target, must be abandoned. First, conclude an agreement with provinces and the agricultural sector on the basis of global regional objectives. Above all, make sure that there is joint administrative building; you can only do this together. Put the local state of nature and soil first, not the critical deposition values. Mr President, I will conclude. Otherwise, we can no longer ignore the hand that protrudes agriculture, but tackle it. I call the Foodvalley, where a lot is measured, the Fertile Circle Achterhoek, the Nitrogen Coöperation in the Nieuwkoopse Plassen, the cow toilet, and so I can continue. Entrepreneurs are now running into a wall because all energy goes to buy-out and the unwillingness rules. Bet on innovation and low-emission management, and if necessary additional on buy-back. Provide better tax arrangements for entrepreneurs who want to quit. Then there is perspective for the farmer, the countryside and nature. It has to be and it can be different. Where there's a will, there's a way. Mr. Chairman. For example, I have included the document A sustainable balance. The National Programme refers to this document and acts as if it has been incorporated into it. I searched for it, but I could barely find a trace of it. This document has been deposited from the sector and has been widely supported. There is one thing I should like to say for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	I share Mr Bishop's heart for the farmers and the countryside and I share with him all the questions he asked about that map, but I also hear Mr Bishop say: we do not accept the goals. How does this relate to his predecessor, Mr Dijkgraaf, who, in the Remkes Committee, has been working for this 50% reduction in all sectors? How does this also relate to Mr Bishop's well-known professors, also from his own supporters, as Mr De Vries has shown over and over again how our nature, our water quality and the climate are doing? How do these statements relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	I think that's easy. A few years ago, as a group, we deliberately chose to work together with the coalition at the time towards a legislative proposal setting targets. A big bone in our throats was the ambition set for 2035. It has been a political weighing-up, a political deal, of the current coalition to bring that forward for another five years. And we don't accept those goals. Mr Grinwis does not hear me say that there are no problems and that nothing has to happen, but it is about how it should be done. It's about the reliability of the government. If two years ago we set out in a law how we want to deal with it and change things again within a year and a half, which turns the whole thing upside down, it fundamentally affects the reliability of the government. That is why I think the statement is clear: we do not accept these goals. We can do this differently and we have to do it differently. We can make political choices. We do not share the choice made by the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	So, if I understand correctly, the only problem, apart from the approach and the map, is that we, like Mr Bishop, radiate confidence to provinces and farmers, which changed 2035 in 2030. Indeed, the SGP Group has agreed to the targets. The SGP Group has agreed and contributed to the law that is now in force. If that's really the only problem, I'd like to hear it. And by the way, it says 2030, but with me Mr Bishop knows the implementation power of governments; sometimes projects take a little longer. So is that really the only problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	The latter is a typical example of how the coalition is dealing with reality, of: yes, we are putting in 2030, but Mr Bishop knows the limited implementing power. Of course I do, but this is no way to do politics, is it? Surely this is no way to achieve reliable decision-making, to radiate consistency, solidity and thoughtfulness? Why do we not get an answer to the question as to how far these plans can be implemented? There is no beginning of a reply in that written reply. When it comes to goals: from one side and from the other there is moving insight. That's fine, too. That's what you're dealing with. One of the points I think should have been more focused on afterwards is the one-sided focus on, for example, the critical deposition value. Indeed, there is much more that determines the quality of the conservation status. So it's fine to look at that as well. I really think it is irresponsible to say: what difference does it make for five years? Yeah, that makes a world of difference. Look at that peasantry. Talk to those people. Then you'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	I do that more than regularly and it's incredibly profound. I am fully aware of the workload of this debate, this day and this subject. That is why the coalition is talking not only about nitrogen and KDWs, but also about water and climate, about public health, about prospects for agriculture, and that is why there is also a €24.3 billion nitrogen fund that really does not just go to buying up businesses, quite the contrary. But it was just to make it clear that Mr Bishop voted in favour of a law which contained 2035 with exactly the same objectives and the exact same reduction rates of the Remkes Committee, to which his predecessor also contributed. From what he said, he has absolutely nothing to do with nitrogen policy, while the SGP bears a great deal of responsibility here. And this is a clear statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	I leave that perception of my speech on behalf of Mr Grinwis, and I cannot change that. I have tried to make it clear how we stand in it. But I am, as a substitute, ashamed of how easy it is to pretend that it doesn't matter for five years. I find that astonishing. That is a question of "to be or not to be" for a lot of companies. That is what I find disappointing in the reaction of Mr Grinwis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	I too have reached the stories with which Mr Bishop began his speech. Farmers who sincerely wonder what these plans, these proposals of the cabinet mean for the future of their business, also in the sense of: if there is a successor who would like to take over the company and who wonders if they will be able to do so later. I hope that we are going to hear from the cabinet today in this debate with the cabinet, which I will certainly ask the cabinet, that this is the beginning of a process in which we will talk to farmers, especially in those areas, to see how we are going to achieve that balance and achieve those goals. But I would like to ask Mr Bishop something. He also mentioned the PAS detectors, legalizing PAS detectors. This is also one of the most important priorities for the VVD in resolving this nitrogen crisis. We are talking about almost 3,600 farming families who are currently in uncertainty beyond their control. However, I would like to ask Mr Bishop: how does he intend to achieve the legalization of these PAS detectors? Where do we get that space? And what steps should the cabinet take to actually achieve this legalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	The problem of PAS detectors is much bigger. Apart from the fact that there are 3,600 PAS detectors, there is probably still not quite a lot of non-reporters with exactly the same problem. Then we have another category which, on other grounds, also has the same problem, namely not a valid nature permit. We need to work on this with speed. Only, if you want to do that, these plans don't provide for that. These plans make it absolutely impossible to provide PAS detectors and non-detectors with a valid nature permit within the prescribed legal period. The question was: how does Mr Bishop intend to do that? We're talking about policy right now. I am well aware that there are court rulings which make the intended legalisation very difficult. I will not go into it further, but it should have the power of thought and administration to resolve it at least. In addition, we also have a task with regard to nature and you name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	We're not gonna get there with legal tricks. Mr Grinwis already referred to the law currently in force, which was adopted three years ago and which Mr Bishop also signed. It includes a legalisation programme for this important target group. You refer to judgments of the Overijssel Court. So there we see: even if you write it in the law, it doesn't help the justice system. We will have to relate to the state of nature which must be in a favourable conservation status, witness judgments of the European Court of Justice, witness rulings of the Council of State and witness successive judgments of courts. We don't have a choice. I would like to ask Mr Bishop once again where he gets the space to legalise these PAS detectors. I can't hear the answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	In continuing the current policy, I can imagine that the coalition is saying: we have no choice. If you continue to focus one-sidedly on the critical deposition values and measure everything to them, and your policy does not take the breadth of the state of conservation of nature and what is further possible when it comes to the socio-economic factors that can also be taken into account, then we will not get any further. But there it is, with the execution. It's up to the Cabinet to step in there, along with the Chamber. That route's just gonna shut down. We don't want to look at that, because we want to achieve the nature goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	I note that we are getting somewhere, because a lot of what Mr Bishop says here will also be heard in my speech. One of the colleagues here from the confessional house has sometimes said that creation is more than a critical deposition value. I think that's a truth like a cow. It is precisely for this reason that the cabinet proposes an ecological authority, an analysis of the state of nature in the Natura 2000 sites. What is the state of nature anyway? Is it just about nitrogen or is it also about water management or about management? Mr Bishop also knows that if you want to bring back heaths, management and grazing are indispensable. That broad approach that is needed in the areas is precisely in the proposals of the cabinet. I agree with Mr Bishop that we should not be blinding ourselves to the critical deposition values. Here's what I want to ask him. What if the cabinet says that the critical deposition values are a tool and direction, and what if the judge does not just refer to those values? Would that reassure Mr Bishop? Would that be a move in the proposals that are currently on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	That would undoubtedly be a step in the right direction, although we are far from there yet, but that requires a legislative adjustment and that is a long process. Anyway, then we can pull together to better secure that. If we can come to business in that direction, we always like to think along. We are a government party in that respect. We are not an opposition party, and if we take a firm stand against this, we really have our well-considered arguments for it. Where we can ease the pain, we won't forget it. But then the question to the coalition is: is the coalition prepared to consider a real timeline, to set a real timeline, which is not the point of 2030? Legally, we're stuck with 2035. Is the coalition prepared to adapt the policy to that? If those targets aren't adjusted, you can do whatever you want, but then you destroy the agricultural infrastructure. And you shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	I don't think I've seen the SGP so angry before. If the SGP uses big words as "unacceptable," then something really is going on. At least I haven't seen it before, so congratulations for that. I can see a problem. There is a lot of talk about critical deposition values, about PAS detectors, about a timetable, but as far as BVNL is concerned there is simply no nitrogen problem at all. Does Mr Bishop not agree with me that the basis of the nitrogen problem is a wrong definition of these Natura 2000 sites and that we should actually go back to the EU, to Brussels, to negotiate a firm game there? There we have to say that we are going to do it in a different way, because the basis for the whole problem is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	I have not rarely questioned the basis of nitrogen policy in recent times. I see absolutely great omissions in that. At the same time, we are faced with the legal reality of having to take this into account in policy. That is also a reality. You can't just say that as a government: we don't do that; we abolish it. That's not how it works. I am always prepared to look at improving the basis of nitrogen policy. That basis can really be improved, as the documents also show. But if you leave it on there, then you will not help the people who are now stuck between the wheels of bureaucracy, justice and environmental activism. You will have to do what you have to do to help those people and therefore the entire agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	I fully agree with Mr Bishop. But if the legal reality is based on a false assumption, on a false basis, then you will have to fight that false foundation. Of course, in the meantime, we must do everything we can to help the farmers. We will support any proposal that produces a slight improvement, but we must tackle the basis, because we must not accept that legal reality without a single word. We have to deal with them. Again, my question. Suppose I tabled a motion to go back to Brussels and fight the foundation so that that legal reality changes. Then perhaps you can support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	The SGP's practice is not to give a blank cheque in advance. We will look seriously at such a motion. If we consider the motion to be useful, then we will not shy away from supporting it. The mere fact that those critical deposition values are given such an absolute position indicates that that basis is too one-sidedly defined. It's gonna take a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u35	When the nitrogen law was dealt with by the end of 2020, the Democracy Forum warned that the results obligations in that law would inevitably lead to expropriation, whether in 2030 or in the year 2035. Nevertheless, Mr Bishop voted in favour of that law. Then it was pretended that expropriation would never be the issue, as if everything could happen on a voluntary basis. Expropriation was still taboo back then. In the meantime, unfortunately, we have been right about this. My question to Mr Bishop is: does he not feel deceived? Would he have voted in favour of that nitrogen law again with his knowledge of the present situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u36	I don't think the latter is so relevant. Expropriation was kept out of sight at that time. Look, you can never completely rule that out as a government. You gotta be honest about that, too. You have the Expropriation Act and it offers that possibility in certain cases under certain strict conditions. I find the ease with which it is being discussed quite shocking. This expropriation can never be prevented, but at that time what was most urgent was done, which was necessary: to establish a legal basis. Afterwards, it turns out the judge's got his shoulders on that. I'm sorry I said it a little disrespectful. In some judgments of cases referred to by Mr Van Campen, the judge says: the Minister may have said that companies that do not have a natural permit are not maintained until there is a proper permit procedure, but I have nothing to do with that. You hear him so to speak in that sentence shrugging his shoulders. It's in some more decent legal terms, but that's what they say. Here too, the reliability of the government is at stake. If I make the impression I'm so angry, let me say I'm slightly displeased. We sometimes need some euphemisms this day. But I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... I'm, uh... That's what the coalition agreement is all about. I have a serious objection to that. We can probably find each other on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u37	I did not call Mr Bishop angry, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u38	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u39	But my point was that that nitrogen law already required a reduction in nitrogen of 74%, excluding projects for housing, renewable energy generation, infrastructure and other buildings. So it would inevitably all come to the plate of agriculture and thus inevitably lead to expropriation. Mr Bishop is now concerned that the 2035 deadline has been brought forward to 2030, but why did he agree to the 2035 deadline? It's just a delay in execution, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u40	I notice that Mr Van Meijeren has studied the legal history very carefully. That's always good. Then he also saw that the amendment that put this in the law did not have the support of the SGP. We have then voted in favour of the amended law as a whole, but with that we have sent a signal. We found 2035 almost unfeasible. Look, achieving goals depends not only on the ambition you have in terms of quantity and quality, but also on the time you allocate to it. I find it a little surprising here with Mr Van Meijeren that we have been doing so trivially over the past five years. "It was 2035 and now it's 2030." No, that is essential, of fundamental importance. 2035 is a very different ambition than 2030. That's what my criticism focuses on, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u41	It is very nice that Mr Bishop did not support an amendment to send a signal, but the policy now being implemented is based on the law and not on signals. We shall vote on amendments first and then on the law as it stands. Mr Bishop voted in favour of this law, which would inevitably lead to expropriation. It would be a credit to him if he said: I was mistaken, I was deceived, I was trapped and with the knowledge of today I would never have voted in favour of this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u42	Let me say that this is a rather colourful presentation of things that ignores the whole process that preceded it. It was necessary to improve that law. We then took part in a political compromise. Now we're talking about the option of expropriation. That was theoretically always an option in the Act of Expropriation, but never came to the fore. That is the case now. That is why it is all the worse that this is being brought out so lightly. But this is not a consequence of that law. If that conclusion is drawn by Mr Van Meijeren, I must fight it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u44	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u45	Then we will listen to Mr Edgar Mulder for his contribution. Mr. Edgar Mulder is with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u46	What do we find more important in the Netherlands? Maintaining low nitrogen nature or maintaining the farmers? If you take fake news and the peasant hatred out of this nitrogen discussion, this question will mainly remain. This is essentially what this is about. Are we really going to spend EUR 32 billion of tax money to expel farmers, so that there can be so-called low nitrogen nature in more than 130 places in the Netherlands? So the question is really very simple: do sand sprays have to remain sand sprays at all costs? And should heather at the expense of EUR 32 billion tax money also remain heaths, or can trees grow on that heath? And yes, animals will also disappear, animals that now live in the low nitrogen nature. But in the new nature, the nature that comes back, the greener nature, new plants and new animals come back again. Mr. Chairman. In this discussion, the PVV chooses farmers without hesitation. Firstly, it is because we love farmers. The farmers belong to the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a farmer's country and the farmers deserve our respect. In addition, second, a farm landscape with cows in the meadow is also much more beautiful than sand sprays and some swampy swamps with a fence around it. Thirdly, the PVV also chooses farmers without hesitation, because the farmers in the Netherlands have the lowest impact on the environment of all countries in the world. Because, Mr President, do you know that the Dutch farmer produces more per hectare than farmers in other countries? So if you take away a farmer in the Netherlands, make it impossible for him to work, two or three farmers will come back in Bulgaria or Russia, because the world still needs to eat. So the bullying away of Dutch farmers is also very bad for our planet. So respect our farmers. Mr. Chairman. In fact, it is scandalous that we should have a discussion here today about the survival of the peasantry in the Netherlands. Humanity and also our ancestors in the Netherlands often had to do with famine. Those were terrible periods of unbelievable suffering. The professional and efficient work of our farmers has solved this in our country. Fortunately, entire generations have grown up who have no knowledge of famine. Please, let's keep it that way. Mr. Chairman. The so-called nitrogen problem is a theoretical problem. If we allow more trees to grow in the Netherlands and therefore less low nitrogen nature remains, then the whole problem has been solved. Then we can use the nitrogen standards of Germany or Denmark. And then there's no more crisis. Actually, it's crazy simple. Nitrogen emissions have decreased by 60% over the last 30 years. I have already asked this Minister twice what nitrogen-related natural disasters occurred during the period around 1990, when there was so much more nitrogen emissions. The Minister does not yet have an answer. That is also logical, of course, because there were no such disasters. It is a self-created, theoretical crisis based on controversial models. Mr. Chairman. The dogmatic, aggressive D66 policy against farmers cannot be explained by any desire to restore nature or so. Because if it were really just to emit less nitrogen, then we were also opposed to mass immigration, because nitrogen is always related to the number of people in an area. More people, more nitrogen: it's as simple as that. And who wants more immigration? Who wants a city the size of Deventer or Leiden every year? Right: those are the coalition parties who also advocate the departure of the farmers. They want to build everything with houses, windmills and endless rows of solar panels. Let's be perfectly honest: who eventually comes to live in these houses? Those are the non-Western immigrants. Mr. Chairman. If you want farmers gone because of nitrogen, but you are for mass immigration, then something goes wrong. It is also very wrong to waste EUR 32 billion in nitrogen policy at this time of crisis and loss of purchasing power and to do nothing for the purchasing power of the Dutch. What could we all do with the 32 billion? We could take a lot of pain away from the Dutch people. We could do something for more money in the wallet. That is why last week the PVV came up with a number of amendments that are good for purchasing power, fully covered with money from the nitrogen fund. In total, we wanted to give EUR 10 billion to the Dutch. The first three amendments were voted off last Tuesday. That's more than outrageous. From SP to CDA and from GroenLinks to the VVD: they all choose against the farmers and against improving the purchasing power of the Dutch. Mr President, concluding. The PVV loves our farmers. The PVV chooses to improve purchasing power and strongly opposes this foolish, unnecessary nitrogen policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u49	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you. Mr President, dear citizens, and above all the farmers of the Netherlands who are in terrible uncertainty. This week, a 15-year-old farmer's son came to me. He asked: "Mrs. Van der Plas, may I become a farmer later?" I said to him, "Dear boy, I don't know. There will always be a future for farmers, but where and how can I not tell you. Know that I will fight for you." Mr. Chairman. For many in the Chamber, this debate is about weird spots, numbers, models and calculations. Error on error is made. That's called: well, a mistake on the map, a wrong assessment and a wrong comparison. For me, this debate is mainly about people, about the people who make our food, about people in rural areas who see their farmers getting sadder, more desperate and more insecure. Farmers, don't be fooled, because most of the Netherlands is right behind you. This certainly applies to the people in the villages, but also to the people in the Randstad. We saw that yesterday in Stroe, where there were many civilians. There were sixty thousand of them at the biggest peasant protest in Dutch history, on the meadow of farmer Gert-Jan, his wife Marja and their five children. That country has been a farmer since 1300. Now the family is told to leave because nature would be threatened. Whoever is really threatened is the farmer. Boer Gert-Jan got an offer from the government to be bought out, and he said, "You may have my nitrogen, but you will not get my land." It was said, "We do not need your nitrogen. We want your land." I came to farmer Gert-Jan on the farm because I could sleep there the night before the protest. He started crying when I got out of the car. He was crying, a big, tough bear from a guy. He broke, right in front of me. That's what it's about: farmers who have to leave because they want the ground. That land has been in the family for hundreds of years. They hear a minister say funny: we are going to offer a fiercely attractive arrangement. Or a nitrogen professor who says they have to bite through the sour apple. The numbness of this cabinet and the people around it is absolutely appalling. Then there's the letter with these weird stain cards that the whole of the Netherlands doesn't understand. This shows that Vlieland has to reduce nitrogen, while there is no intensive livestock farming at all, and that West-Zeeuws-Vlaanderen has to reduce, while there is only farming. That letter is a reason for banks to tighten up the cord for farmers. Banks no longer want to finance farmers on the basis of that letter. These farmers want to invest in sustainability. Can farmers file a claim for damages against the minister? That's what this is. That's what this is: plan damage. Mr. Chairman. To end this madness, I've made a plan, along with JA21, to fix the biggest mistakes of that ridiculous plan, from the Nature Protection Act. By the way, I'm going to offer the Minister that plan. We hear that there is an assessment on LNV of how many farms will stop by the so-called perspective of this minister. Can the Minister share this assessment for the next term? Take the estimate of the number of farmers who will stop because they are desperate, because the banks drop them and because they are tired of being treated like pariah. Mr. Chairman. Then innovation. We are not going to do that, and this is the response of these ministers when I ask for significantly more funding for innovations. But innovation can make sectors more sustainable. Look at the car pile. It's never been cut in half. Those cars have gone cleaner. And what does the Minister say here if I make a proposal to subsidise farmers fully or to help with systems that can significantly reduce nitrogen? "We're not gonna do that." But if reduction is the goal, can't you also focus on innovations? Why is there so little money allocated to this? Everything points out that this cabinet has no interest in innovations. It has an interest in wiping out the farmers. It has an interest in the land: cheap purchases as agricultural land and expensive sales as land. Perhaps it is time for the Minister to explain clearly what the real purpose of this law is, because last week RIVM also indicated that the way this law is used is not really about the state of nature anymore. The reduction of nitrogen emissions has become an end in itself and that is even completely independent of the real state of nature. I just think it's outrageous. I would like the Minister's responsibility for this policy choice. Then we'll talk about the targets. This coalition already reinforces virtually unachievable goals in the coalition agreement. Nice and smart, with an Urgenda who has a subscription to the judge. Aware of a legal problem: where is the sense of this cabinet? I'd like a response from the Minister. Why does the Minister hold on to the KDWs as a result obligation and not as an indicator? Can she explain that? I think that is unsustainable. Also the RIVM and the PBL say: KDW's say nothing about the state of nature. Mr. Chairman. Some parties in this Chamber talk about tailor-made work, while the Ombudsman correctly says in his recent annual report: tailor-made work is not a solution to bad policy. The policy must be good in the basics. Have the colleagues of the CDA and the VVD read the Ombudsman's report? Or are we just gonna put all kinds of stuff together to mask bad policy? Is there going to be a parliamentary inquiry into the nitrogen scandal? Mr President, I shall conclude. When you ask critical questions about nitrogen policy, you're called a "Nuclear Denner." But this cabinet and this coalition are society deniers. There is no listening, certainly not to the farmer, and that is much worse. I urge the coalition to send nitrogen policy all the way back to the drawing board. Dismiss this plan. The foundation is not good and everyone knows that you should never build if the foundation is not good. That's just a healthy sense of farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek van Volt and then to Mr Eppink. There were a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u52	I hear a great deal of criticism of policy in Mrs van der Plas' contribution. It is actually suggested that the policy is not integrity. But I also hear in the contribution that the financing of farmers with this plan will be put under immediate pressure. I wonder if there would be a system error, where we would have to put the pressure not so much on policy, but much more on the system around it. Isn't it absurd that in the moment that farmers want to make it more sustainable, the bank says "no"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u53	That's what the bank does on the basis of these plans. He simply says to the farmer: yes, but we're not going to finance that, because it's all far too insecure right now; maybe you should leave, so we're not going to do that. The crooked thing is that these farmers do not ask for money to buy more animals, as is sometimes said here. The number of animals in the Netherlands has been decreasing for years. Those farmers do that because they want to make it more sustainable. They want to work with better, or more effective, systems. And they just get to hear from the bank: no, we're not gonna do that. So these farmers are being pushed even further into the tribulation and down the well because they cannot get that funding. And if they can't make it more sustainable, then the government comes back: you're outbursting too much, you have to do this, you have to do it. Yes, I do, but I can't!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u54	I think we can find each other very well with regard to the dilemma that Mrs Van der Plas is now describing. I also see that there is a system around which farmers are stuck, while policies want to move in a different direction. My preference then is to focus on the system that surrounds it. Hence my question: why do we put the pressure now placed on the policy and the cabinet, not on the system surrounding it? This concerns, among other things, the conditions for financing. The problem of wanting to make it more sustainable, but it cannot be because there are certain conditions for funding, I see. I'm just saying, I think we should put the pressure, including that of this Chamber, somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u55	Sure. I certainly agree with that. I also find it absolutely scandalous that banks are doing this, quite frankly scandalous. And that while they're yelling, "Oh, we're proud of the farmers," and this and that and that about the farmer. Then I think, "Where's the pride?" Then help those people! Yesterday there were people on Stroe with signs with only the word "help." These banks also hold the key, but the banks also look at the swirling policy that is being pursued here in the Chamber. They also look to the future for the farmers. Is there still a future there? A bank then thinks: we do not want to take any risks either. One of the big banks back in the day I won't mention the name "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, They were just always in touch with the farmer. That has become one big organization. Farmers need to be more sustainable, and then they don't get any money. I fully agree with you that something must be done about this and that we must see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u56	Mrs van der Plas has just spoken about reducing livestock, poultry, pigs, etc. in recent years. The RIVM figures date from 2018, as far as I could check. Can you give me an insight into this development? After all, there is already a natural development, while people in the country get the impression that we suffocate in pigs, cows, chickens and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u57	Yeah, sure. This impression is given by this Chamber, at least a number of Members of this Chamber, who are literally saying on television that there are only more animals. That's just bullshit! In 2018... I was at the RIVM's technical briefing last week. It was very interesting. The RIVM indicated: we have no idea where the nitrogen comes from at the measurement. We have no idea what farm it's coming from. Check it out, no visibility! We don't have a visual on the effect. That's just literally in the text of that technical briefing. We do it with those measurements, but we can get an insight into them, because we're going to make a model of them. They make that model on the basis of figures from 2018, four years ago. Four years ago! Now I have just looked up how many animals there were in 2018. Let me tell you something: at the moment, compared to those four years ago, there are 1.5 million pigs less, 200,000 cattle less, 8 million chickens less and 20,000 sheep less. But company records are used from the time they were still there. I really don't get it. How can you do that, how can you take care of farmers, when the livestock has just fallen? Shoot me!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u58	That is another point, of course. We talk about nitrogen and think we're gonna choke on nitrogen. But what has been the development of nitrogen emissions over the past 30 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u59	It's also very interesting. I recommend everyone: look back at the technical briefing, because you will get insight. I've got an insight into a whole bunch of crap that's been unraveled there. The nitrogen emissions have fallen dramatically. It just fell hugely compared to the 1990s. The nitrogen emissions from the agricultural sector over the last 30 years have been reduced by 67%. We all know that, but some people don't want to say that, but I do. I constantly get questions from the media: shouldn't these farmers do something? Then I think, "How can you ask me this?" 67% reduction already! Just take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u60	No further questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u61	I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans on the proposal they have made. It is always good for colleagues to come up with proposals themselves and present plans. I would like to ask a question about one call. It's not about that call that says Boswijk, Grinwis and I would be taken hostage by D66, by De Groot. That's what your point plan says. Of course, we won't let that happen. If you see the electoral programmes of all parties, you will also see that this has not happened at all, because things would have been very different. Mr. Chairman. I would actually like to ask Mrs van der Plas one question about these Natura 2000 sites, about the joint proposal they are putting forward on the halving of these Natura 2000 sites. I will admit quite frankly that I have also thought: what have our predecessors been doing here in pointing out these areas? How can you make it up, these little snippets all over the area? So that's what I've been digging into. I read that even though you would like to move these Natura 2000 sites, there are quite a few studies that say that you cannot do so on ecological and legal grounds, actually on all grounds. The European Commission and the European Court will recall you immediately. So how realistic is the proposal of JA21 and BBB to halve these Natura 2000 sites in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u62	Let me clarify this first. Yesterday I sat with Mr De Groot at Op1. Then it was said: you want to halve the natural areas. Of course, that's not true. So just to clarify: halving the Natura 2000 sites actually means that you have a lot of small Natura 2000 sites, also all small stamps, and that of the 162,000... 162,000 would be completely crazy! We'd be a long way from home. Of the 162 Natura 2000 sites, 32 are under 200 hectares. We are actually talking about administrative halving. They say 80% of these small Natura 2000 sites would be overloaded with nitrogen. Those larger nature areas wouldn't be at all or much less. We want to see if you can turn these little stamps into larger Natura 2000 sites. So we don't want to halve nature, but we want to make it more effective. Because you can only see that nitrogen, and any damage it would cause to nature, well when you have a very large nature reserve, a very large Natura 2000 area in this case, a freak, by the way. Anyway, we're dealing with it. Mr Van Campen's question is: how realistic is that? So this is what I keep seeing happen. I hear, "I can't do that. Here's a report and it says that it's legally unfeasible, that the sister is unfeasible and that it's so unfeasible." Those are just smokescreens. Let's just give it a try, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you. Mr. Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u64	Maybe that's useful. That would be a great deal of misery for farmers and it would perhaps take the Netherlands out of the ridiculous nitrogen crisis that we have created ourselves forever. I hear: look, here's a report and there it is. There are a lot of reports, including from scientists who are completely ignored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u65	I naturally follow Mrs Van der Plas closely as a colleague. I know she likes to stick to the facts. That is why I thought she would be receptive to this argument. It is literally called: Natura 2000 screening, research into possibilities for adaptation of the protected status of Natura 2000 sites. If a law could be different, I'd be happy to. I sincerely believe that we should take a serious look at her proposal for a logical classification of the Natura 2000 sites. But I'd like to ask the Cabinet how realistic that is. How long will that take in the direction of Brussels? Because Mrs van der Plas also remembers what we were like in Brussels when the milk quota went off and what the European Commission did then. At the time, there was very serious intervention, with the introduction of the phosphate rights system, which continues to cause farmers suffering to this day. At some point, we're gonna have to take our pee to the doctor. I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas: let us relate to the possibilities that exist, but let us give a realistic picture, because if we get too many rules and agreements in the wind, then we really come home from a cold carnival. Does she agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr Van Campen is presenting a rather thick report. I always think, the thicker the report, the more words you need to explain something. If you need a lot of words to explain, you have to start wondering if that's true. You can check it out. Laws are constantly being changed here. Laws are constantly being amended or changed in Brussels. We can file emergency laws or repair laws. It's not a matter of being able. If, in the end, it turns out it's not possible: fuck it. But it is not a question of not being able, but of not wanting. Here is simply used to halve the livestock. That's the goal. That's just where we're going. That's what we saw in the coalition agreement. That's just one big D66-ramble about what we all have to do in the Netherlands. That's what this is about. D66 just wants to halve the livestock. Land must be made available to build or whatever. That's the goal. I really want to see if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u67	What D66 wants, it's up to them. I am here on behalf of the VVD, so let Mrs Van der Plas keep that debate mainly for Mr De Groot. As far as that report is concerned, I believe that Mrs Van der Plas also thinks it is important to look at the actual state of nature in these 162 natural areas. Then of course you also need some pages to describe what it is like there. However, let us talk about the international playing field to which our agro-industry has to relate. After all, it is an international market. We were just talking about the milk quota, which went off at the time, and about the rigid, hard phosphate rights system with a generic reorganisation that was accompanied by non-ground-based dairy farmers. Mrs Van der Plas probably knows the examples and stories of people we are talking about. But let me mention something else: derogation. At the moment, we still expect a derogation from the Nitrates Directive. I ask the Minister this way: can he give an update later? Because our farmers have been working for months in the current fattening season and still have no answer. I would like to say to Mrs van der Plas that the European Commission will also make a strong assessment in this area of the action taken by the Netherlands on agreements we made decades ago. Is Mrs Van der Plas therefore prepared to go ahead with the derogation? 'Cause that's what we're at risk for. We have seen this in the decline of the milk quota and we will see that we do not keep to the agreements we have made, resulting from the Birds and Habitats Directives. Is that how she sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u68	I want to be very brief about that, to be honest. I have also put forward proposals in committee debates to see if the Minister can go to Brussels to look at differentiated derogations. In central Spain, in the desert, you don't need a derogation, but in fertile countries like the Netherlands you may need a derogation. Then the answer is simply: we do not. Mr. Van Campen, I'm just getting tired of everything that couldn't be done, of everything Brussels says. I do not know how many countries say: Brussels must do so, but we are setting it up in this way. Everything that happens here in the Netherlands is all the result of a political choice. Of course, farmers are also desperate about the derogation. They say, "He's still not here," so what do we do? But it's all about the political will to make a real commitment and see if you can do it differently. It's called here all the time: no, it can't be. I have heard the Minister for Nitrogen say a thousand times: no, that is not possible, because Brussels has to do so. But they don't do that in France! In France, the government says: "Listen, it has to be Brussels, but we are going to see if we can just get it right for our farmers, who are making our food." And you know what happens there? That's just where it gets adapted. That's where the farmers are being helped. Here in the Netherlands we do not want that, but there is a reason for that. And that really doesn't just have to do with the one plant in that Natura 2000 area. You're not gonna tell me that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u69	I share the frustration with Mrs van der Plas about these numbers of Natura 2000 sites, about the uncertainty about derogation and about the targets. I sincerely agree with her in that regard, because sometimes it feels like dictations are coming at us. As an agricultural spokesperson in this Chamber, that is extremely frustrating. So the will, the political will, is with me, but I am afraid that we must also be honest: the erratic reality is really different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u70	I don't hear any further questions. The only thing I want to say is that the coalition has the key in its hands. He can help the farmers. We're standing here fighting. I understand very well that as an opposition we have little to do if the coalition does not say: "Listen, we are simply not going to implement this nitrogen plan. We're gonna take a look with the county, we're gonna see how we set it up in those provinces and then we're gonna make a plan." I can already tell you that we're probably standing here until tonight and then we're just going back to the order of the day. I can tell you that. And I think that's really super-, super sad for all those thousands of farmers in the Netherlands who are watching it now. And who may now also be looking in the eye with tears, crying over all the technocracy that is being poured out here. Those people just want to move on. These people want a future. These people want to know if in 15 years' time their kid can take over the company that's been in the family for four or five generations. And empathy doesn't belong to Mr Van Campen personally, I just don't see back here, I really don't. It makes me emotional myself. I just hate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u71	I would just like to respond to the image if there were a closed coalition that was not prepared to listen to opposition proposals. Even though we're here until tomorrow morning, I slept well last night, so I'm fit to go get that together. We all have an obligation to build bridges, to listen to each other's proposals to find workable solutions for farmers, for people who want to find a way out of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union, then Mr Boswijk and then Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u73	I would like to return to the point made by Mr Van der Plas on land. When I spoke to farmers, I heard the same thing: they're not after our nitrogen space, but they're out on our ground. I would like to work together with Mr Van der Plas in this respect, because that cannot be the intention. I know how deeply connected a farmer is to his soil, where his grandfather has been plowing on, where his father has been plowing on, and where he can hopefully plow on, crawl on, increase fertility and provide for. But it is true that for homes... Even if you wanted to build 1 million homes over the next ten years, you would need a maximum of 1% of the agricultural area. I believe that agriculture has 56% of the area in use. 1% of that 56% you need for those homes. That is a development of all years. Mr Van der Plas and I both want to get rid of data centers. They should not take up valuable arable land, for example, at Zeewolde. There are far too many solar fields, for example around Deventer. We don't want them on land anymore; we want them on the roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u74	What is your question to Mrs Van der Plas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u75	My question is about this fear of 'they want our land instead of our nitrogen space', because nitrogen emissions need to be reduced. Isn't that a concern that we can take away together and that the cabinet can also take away? It is precisely in the coalition agreement that we agreed that we need more land for intensification, and also affordable land. Then it is also a matter of land on which farmers can stay active.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u76	This is another example... I say this with all due respect to Mr Grinwis, because he himself comes from an arable family. So if there is one person literally standing with the legs in the clay, it is Mr Grinwis. But this is typical again. It is said that we need 1 million homes, and this is only 1% of the huge property that farmers own. But as a farmer, you will only be one of the 1% that is expropriated, is required to be bought out, even more so, from whom even the permit can be taken away. You're gonna have to hear that. You're talking about a lot of farmers, aren't you? I'm talking about those farmers now. That is what I mean by being a society denier and the feeling that this is so easy to talk about. It's literally about families losing their land. Mr Grinwis also knows that we are not necessarily opposed to building on agricultural land. We say do everything else before you get to farmland, and certainly not expropriate farmers. There are a lot of farmers in the Netherlands who want to stop for whatever reason. They don't have a successor, they're just tired of it, or they're too desperate. A lot of farmers are gonna quit voluntarily. These farmers, for example, could now be offered an accelerated arrangement. For example, they want to do the same in Gelderland. You could just apply a gear to that. I'm not against that either. Who am I to tell a farmer who wants to stop saying you can't take money from the minister, because I want you to stay here? That's bullshit, of course. I'm interested in this expropriation, the compulsory buyout, the taking away of permits. That's all I care about. We really need to deal with that better here, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u78	In the past, we have had a lot of things in other areas where a kind of technocracy was built around them and where families have really been thrown into misery. We just know that's gonna happen. Pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u79	If anyone doesn't want to deal lightly with land, it's me. I know how deeply farmers are connected to that land. But Mr Van der Plas himself also said that it is 1%. That's very intense when it hits you, when your land is expropriated. For years, and perhaps your lifetime, that can influence your image of the government, of "the high lords in The Hague who are coming to take my land." I won't deny that. But if you say "1%," there's 99% left. For years, land, including agricultural land, has been used for housing. We should not be light-hearted about that, but at least let us reach out to each other and not go along with the idea of "it is them to do to our soil." Yes, land is needed, but most of it remains in the hands of farmers. In fact, for extravagance, for more extensive livestock farming, more land is needed rather than less. That's the mission we stand for. Then they must be able to earn a good living with this more extensive livestock farming. That's the challenge, because on an acre of €100,000 you can't farm extensively. You can't make a good living with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u80	Well, I guess I just have to see it all with that extravagance and perspective. In that letter, we're talking perspective. The word "perspective" is in it. A lot of people think: oh, perspective! But what's that perspective? There's nothing in there about that. There's nothing in it about perspective. There are no concrete measures or plans in it. There's just talk of perspective. Then they think that people will read and think: oh, look, it's here in the letter; perspective is given. But there's nothing in there about that, nothing concrete. So I guess I'm just gonna have to see it all. Yes, indeed, I am a member of the doubt brigade. That's right. And I have every reason to, when I see how plans are made or unfolded here and how mistakes are made. I'm a member of the doubt brigade. I hope that a lot of people join the doubt brigade, because if a lot of people were members of the doubt brigade when the surcharge scandal unfolded, that surcharge scandal would never have happened. I'm proud of that. I'm proud to be from the doubt brigade. That's what we're all supposed to be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u81	I will never accuse Mrs van der Plas of being a member of this or that and will never put that qualification on her. I think she's definitely only a member of BBB. That's the first thing. Secondly, a letter of perspective is something other than that as paradise is rolled out and that there is a concrete view of a good sandwich for a farmer, for example with 100 cows instead of 150 cows. That is a huge task. At the same time, many farmers, if they can earn a better living with fewer cattle and if they can maintain or repair a timber mill for a real fee, they will do so. There are thousands of dairy farmers who are very willing to do so. However, at present it is often an expense compensation and we have State aid frameworks in Brussels. So it's a tough fight. As long as I'm alive, it's been at home at the kitchen table about that price, because how is it that as a farmer you get a dime for a kilo of potatoes and that they're in the supermarket for €1.30? I want to fight for that with Mrs Van der Plas. It's in Minister Staghouwer's letter. Yes, there are still a lot of laws, regulations and practical objections in the way, but that is the perspective and this minister has written down: we are going to preside over the processing industry, those suppliers, those banks and those supermarkets at first and if that does not succeed, I mean by means of a law to make a larger part of that price, of that €1.30 in the supermarket, land on the farmyard. I hope we can fight for that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u82	We can fight for that together, but it's no good to me: we're gonna do this and we're gonna do that. I'm sorry, but that doesn't help farmers either. I've been in the agricultural sector for a long time. Some people think I just crawled out of an egg, but I don't. I've been working in the agricultural sector for 20 years, not as a farmer but on the periphery, so to speak. I've been hearing this for 20 years: "We're gonna do this." I also heard Minister Schouten say last year: "We are really going to do this. We're just gonna do this." And now it's said again, "We're gonna do this." But a farmer doesn't have to do anything about that. Go do it! Say: "Listen to me; I'm going to guarantee you that we did this before 1 September. I'm just calling it January 1 or whatever. There are, with all due respect to officials, who are certainly also hard workers, I do not mean otherwise, as a disclaimer in advance, thousands of officials in ministries. At the Ministry of LNV I do not know how many civil servants work on nitrogen, buy-out and fertilizers much less than on nitrogen and buy-out innovation. Put people there; put a thousand officials on it once to do so and promise that farmer: "For this date we have arranged it for you, because dear farmers in the Netherlands, we ask a lot of you and I understand that that is bad, but I will give you something in return. In return, I am going to guarantee that it has been dealt with." But that's not gonna happen. It says again, "We're gonna do this." Well, that's back in four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mrs van der Plas and I share a great deal with each other, such as a warm heart for the agricultural sector. Of course, we all hear the stories. We also see the harrowing cases, and that affects us all. I have read your plan on skipping a number of Natura 2000 sites or at least reducing the number of Natura 2000 sites. When they were appointed, I was still liquid myself. I think if I had been there myself and knew what consequences would come, I would have thought: we should not do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u84	I think this was a very neat expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u85	Yeah, I didn't know that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u86	I believe we've all been liquid once. But it is a serious point that Mrs Van der Plas raises, and I have heard this very often: what a bunch of idiots we are; go to Brussels and arrange it. As a committee, we spoke with the Commissioner himself a few months ago. Unfortunately, there weren't very many MPs; I believe Mr. Van Campen was there. Then we also asked: "How do you look at showing a little more customization and how do you look at it when we go skiing some areas?" Then he actually said in his answer: we are completely open to that and we want to cooperate fully on that if the Netherlands is no longer in the top of the nitrogen emissions, we are by far at the top of the list if the water, nature and soil quality and name them all but in good condition, and if the livestock density is not that high. In any case, he made it very clear: we want to cooperate, but then you as the Netherlands have to get going first. There have been a lot of parties in the past cabinet that have tried this. So I'd really like to. I also think that we should show empathy in the sector and, on the one hand, understand how painful this decision and policy are. I feel that, too. I also think it's a missed opportunity. I'm almost done, hear that there's not a much clearer perspective. I had really hoped that there would be much more concrete measures. But I also think we should be honest. How does Mrs. Van der Plas view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u87	I think I have already said this: everything is a matter of will and not of ability. If we find that, and we all really think that we should really look at it, then we should not let Brussels go and just look at it very carefully. Put 1,000 civil servants on that, too, to settle that. Everything here is a political choice. And that's fine, well, I don't always like the choice, but just say it. Just say: listen, it's a political choice to do it like this and we're not going to fight very hard for that, because we're not into it, or for any reason. But it is all of: it cannot be done and the Commissioner has said this and that. Just figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u88	I think it's been picked out a lot. I have personally been after it once again, including my group in Europe. But let us ask the Minister what exactly has happened in the last 20 years to try this. I'm very curious about that. Maybe there are openings. I think, quite frankly, that this is going to take a very long time and that that also means that farmers are still in uncertainty, including the PAS detectors. But let me make another point. You mentioned the RIVM briefing. Unfortunately, I couldn't be physically present, but I certainly looked at it. I also thought it was a very enlightening briefing. You just got a few points out of it. They did say: we do not know exactly what the emissions are at company level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u89	I don't. Not "not exactly," but "not."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u90	But we do know, in general terms, where the nitrogen comes from and where it ends up. I have heard you before about the Hordijk Committee. At that time, you actually put forward the same argument, namely that we do not really know anything and need to examine more and measure more. I'm very much for more measuring, but it's also not entirely true that we don't know anything at all. Well, the chairman of this committee, Leen Hordijk, responded last week. He says: there is actually only selective shopping out of my advice, among other things by you. He compared this with the tobacco industry, the liquor industry and all the industries that have lobbied half-truths in the past. How do you look at that? Is that fair to the agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u91	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mr. Boswijk. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr Hordijk gave an extensive interview in the Agrio magazines, Agrio's regional agricultural newspapers. In that he was just pretty clear. On the basis of that article, I also asked questions about this. I found it quite remarkable that within a few days after those questions were asked here, this was suddenly kind of withdrawn. Then I'll be back, from the doubt brigade. Then I think again, what's behind that? Why would he give that interview a few weeks before that? That was already a few weeks old; that had not just come true. I didn't hear about that until questions were asked here. And promptly, two days later, Mr. Hordijk sat at Nieuwsuur to say things differently, or to say that it was all wrong. Then I think, "What's behind that?" Does he have to say this now? He can also call me and say: Mrs van der Plas, I hear you saying all things that are not true at all. No, he's in Nieuwsuur to tell me. I'm sorry, but my trust, especially on this file... on a lot of other files, by the way, I'm pretty confident, but on this file? My neck hairs are just standing up. I really wonder what's behind all this. And I think: halving the livestock is the dot on the horizon, and the ground is added to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u93	I live in a farm village myself and I sit at the church and on the board of my school, so I run into a lot of farmers all day long. So this is what's really bothering me. This hurts me a lot, too. I'm in the grocery store and people are looking at me like: are you in that conspiracy and isn't the goal that you want to halve the livestock and kill the agricultural sector? It hits me all day long. I'm not some big shot standing here all day saying, "I don't give a shit," but this is really undermining. It is good to be critical of policy and I will be so in a moment to the rulers, because I really think that we have missed a number of turns and that there is indeed a lack of empathy, but I think it really goes beyond borders if we suddenly start to doubt several scientists and then not just Mr Hordijk, in the sense of: what is behind it? Well, I can tell you that the world is a lot more boring, because there's nothing behind it. I think the agricultural sector is longing for perspective. I blame the rulers for not getting enough of this, but it does not help the agricultural sector. We're going to Brussels. How long does Mrs. Van der Plas think this is gonna take? When is the moment when she says, okay, we tried, it didn't work out? How many years is that, how long do we have to wait to do something?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u94	Until it is absolutely clear that the nitrogen of that cow rises and falls on that nature reserve and on that plant and that it is because of it. Sorry, chairman, the MPs can get mad at me, but the RIVM and the Planning Bureau for the Environment themselves say that that is not exactly clear. I say to the farmers: the moment you are expropriated on the basis of nature restoration, you go to court and then you go to court to ask that question. Show me that of these cows this nitrogen has gone on that nature reserve and on those plants. Then I can also predict: this is going to be a very long legal agony for the government. This is gonna cost a lot of money. That is why I call on the cabinet once again: invest money in innovations, make farmers more sustainable and let them do what they are good at, namely entrepreneurship and development. Then you save the Netherlands a lot of misery and a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u95	Let me say something about that clarity right now. Then we have to put a sensor on every back of a cow and a sensor on every plant; then we will know exactly. Of course, that reality is never going to happen. I agree with Mrs van der Plas: of course we need to measure more. I've been to Liefstingh's pants. There is a very nice area-oriented approach. It is measured in the stable and also in the nature reserve. It also measures more than just nitrogen: soil and management are also examined. I'm all for that. But we also need to be a little real. There is much to do about the AERIUS model; there are mistakes in it and we must remain critical of it. But it's like a shower radar. In general, a shower radar is quite good and sometimes the model deviates. How can you do that? Then you need to look at that location, including the ecological authority, and you need to measure a little more. But I find it really misleading to pretend that we first need a thousand percent certainty to take action, and to paint the picture that we don't know anything at the moment. Yeah, there's some mistakes in it. That's inherent in science. That also needs to be improved every time. But I'm really glad we didn't wait in a lot of other sciences until we knew everything, for example in medical science, because we would probably still be 25 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u96	I will never accept that farmers are being bought out improperly or that permits are being taken from them or that they are being expropriated. I'll never accept that, not as long as I'm here and not as long as I'm alive. That's what I'm fighting for here. All Members of Parliament cannot like that, all of which is allowed; that is why we have a debate. But that's what I'm standing here for. It is too easy for me to say, while, as we already see, nitrogen policy is on all sides: let us just accept that such an AERIUS model may have up to 100% deviation. It's not always like that, but it's possible. I'm just not gonna accept that. I'll stand for this forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u97	Again, you may indeed have major anomalies. I have mentioned the example of Liefstinghsbroek several times; I will also mention it in my own contribution. But I would like to throw out the picture here that I would accept that we would be expropriating farmers for improper reasons. I don't think anyone wants me to. I just think you should always see what science says and what is possible in society. We have to go through an accurate process for that. That will happen in the coming year. I must also be honest: I think there have been quite a few concrete points that the cabinet has not taken, and I think that is a missed opportunity. Again, I think we can't pretend we don't know anything and there's one big conspiracy. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr Boswijk has not heard me mention the word 'conspiracy' at all. Never. Never! Look back in the Acts until March 18th. I didn't say it was all one big conspiracy. I'm not sure. I'm asking questions. A lot of things have been seen here on other subjects. Then the room said "no, but it's not" and it turned out to be. It's not a bad thing to doubt at all. If it turns out I'm wrong and I'm not, I'm the first one to say, okay, I've seen wrong. I'll be the first. But as long as I don't, I'm gonna keep asking those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. We go to Mr Klaver, then to Mrs Ouwehand and then to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u100	You have populism and you have flat populism. I've been listening to that last one for 45 minutes. Before I ask my substantive question, I would like to make another point. We have seen what this debate in the Lower House has done with the safety of scientists, by questioning their scientific integrity. Just now, between noses and lips, that happened to Mr Hordijk. I would like Mrs van der Plas to take back the words she has said about him and say here that there is no doubt about his scientific integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u101	I do not doubt Mr Hordijk's integrity at all, and I do not take my words back at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u102	This is poison. It is said "I am not talking about conspiracy," but very carefully, with signal words and with dog whistles, it is said: "Yes, it is a coincidence. He gave an interview for the first time. A few days later, he says something else on television. What do you think is behind that?" The House of Representatives asks those questions. That's feeding distrust towards scientists. If there are police houses at the door of scientists again or if they can't go to a festival, then the Chamber is too small. Then we all say: oh, how terrible, oh, how super-, super-erg. You're feeding that. Take that back. I hope you say here that there is no doubt about Mr Hordijk's integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u103	Well, I think I just said that. I have just said that I have no doubt of Mr Hordijk's integrity. There's always selective shopping. I am very opposed to Mr Klaver's allegations. Mr Klaver talks about flat populism, but you also have more flatter populism. And that is what Mr Klaver is doing here by indirectly holding me responsible for Mr Hordijk being threatened and getting a police house on the doorstep. I'm very sorry about that. I think that's a very serious accusation. It's a disguised accusation by someone who says he hates flat populism. I am very opposed to this. I am not going to ask Mr Klaver to take back his words, because everyone here has the free speech, but I do want to respond in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u104	I would ask Members to be careful about naming names, including scientists. They're not here, they can't defend themselves. I would very much like to make that point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mr President, you are absolutely right. Now for my substantive question. You're making a plea like you're doing it for the farmers. This minister's policy is going to cause casualties, but that is mainly in the meat processing industry. We have to be honest about that. There's a whole world hiding behind these farmers. Every 15 years, with the policy that there was that there should supposedly be, the number of farmers has been halved. Farmers are under pressure. When a 15-year-old boy asks "what's my future gonna be like?" empathy doesn't mean crying with the wolves. No, then you have to be honest. The truth is: that future is not in farming as we know it today, that future may not be where that farm is now. We have to be honest and say: it will be more extensive, it will be more natural, and in your particular case it may also mean that you cannot take over your parents' company. That's an honest story. It's not a nice story, I don't like to tell it either, but it's fair. And as politicians, after 20 years of failing policies, you can expect us to be honest at last. In 2014 I dealt with the PAS here in this Chamber. I have read back my contribution and also that of the Party for Animals. We warned about exactly what is happening now: it was not a solution for nature and not a solution for farmers. Investment in innovations means that more animals are needed to earn back the investment, that you get fewer farmers, but larger farms, that nature has not been helped and that farmers have not been helped. What I ask you, Mrs van der Plas, is: work together; let's see if we can find each other to ensure that farmers get a fair price, that there is nature-inclusive agriculture. I am critical because I think: what is the perspective if I want to switch as a farmer? What can I count on? Then what means are available to me? But what you're doing here is cheap and flat. You're trying to talk the farmers to the mouth and say, "I'm not gonna let it happen." I'll give you a note. It's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u106	I didn't say I'm not gonna let it happen. I said I'd fight for it, I'd fight for the peasants. Things like "I'm not gonna let it happen" are put in my mouth. I said: I will never accept that farmers will be expropriated or required to be bought out or taken away from their permit if we are not sure which RIVM also says so, if we do not know exactly whether it is true. I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u107	You're talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u108	Yes. That's what I'm saying. Then there is the comment: it is the meat processing industry. I do not know whether Mr Klaver has been paying attention in recent years, but farmers in the Netherlands have been given more and more rules. And every rule that comes with it costs the farmer money. The cost that farmers have, the price you have to pay to make a kilo of product, has gone insanely up. This cost often makes it impossible for farmers to continue. I agree with Mr Klaver on that price. That yield price isn't going up. That too has several causes, because the supermarkets simply want to be able to buy the cheapest product. If they can't do it here, they'll just go abroad. We certainly have to do something about that. Whatever it is, consumers spend only 8% of their disposable income on food. On the birthday you hear they all buy organic. Everyone goes to the bakery, everyone goes to the butcher, everyone goes to the grocery store, nobody goes to the supermarket, nobody buys a kilobatter, but the consumer figures show something completely different. So the citizen who says this, and the consumer does that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u109	Let's go back. There is talk of compulsory expropriation. There is an image that this minister is going to drive around the country and point out people: we are going to expropriate you now. That goes on the basis of the law. We have a judge in the Netherlands. If a mistake is made by the county or by this minister and something is not right in the system, then someone can sue. That can happen if you work with a model. This applies not only to an AERIUS model or models of the PBL. This also happens with models of the CPB when we look at purchasing power. Models are a simplified representation of reality. Individual cases will always be looked at in a very specific way. If something is wrong, we live in a rule of law and can sue farmers. But the image you are calling for here is that it can all be prevented and that it can be stopped. You are putting undue pressure on coalition parties here by saying that they simply do not want to. Well, I've been through them here over the past few years and I can say that they really want something else. I'd love to. They want exactly the same as you: that the Empire doesn't have to change the way things are going with the bio-industry. But you can't. That insight has descended, and I think that is commendable. I'm not gonna stand back from that. What you're doing here is feeding suspicion. You are feeding distrust here and you are also feeding the protest that is taking on ever larger and grotesque forms. I'm worried about how we're gonna go next year. Please moderate your tone and make sure we work together on solutions, because I think we can even find each other there, even BBB and GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u110	Sorry, but "temporarily your tone"... I say what I want here, and I say it the way I want it. "Major your tone," I hear that very often from that side, "sit down," "be quiet," "moderately your tone." I'm standing for something. Once again, Mr Klaver should not like that and we can have a debate on that, although I would feed protests. In 2019 was the first peasant protest at the Malieveld for a long time. In the 1980s and 1990s there were also a lot of farm protests. Look back at the footage. I wasn't even in politics back then. I wasn't in the room at all back then. So it's also a false contradiction. I find it very presumptuous, "reasonably your tone." Well, I'll take it as a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u111	I didn't think I'd get this answer, but I think it's my responsibility to say this. I see what is happening in society now. I see that here an dissatisfaction is being fed with falsehoods and factual inaccuracies. That's problematic. Finally, I would like to point out the following. I am very much in favour of doing everything we can to ensure that farmers are properly bought out or switched over, if necessary. For my part, I will make sure that there is not a penny going to the industry behind it, whether it is the animal feed industry, the barn builders or the meat industry. That's where the big money goes. The farmers in this country earn very little. They can still keep their heads above water because of the agricultural subsidies that come from Europe. You are pointing to the consumers, but there is an outrageous amount of sticking to them. I'll never hear about that. You say that you are fighting for the farmers here, but in fact your agenda is that you are fighting for the industry behind it. The farmers were not helped with your pleas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr Klaver should pay more attention, because I talk very often about the wholesale trade. I said at Op1 yesterday... if Mr Klaver has something to say, he has to come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u113	Yes. I give the floor to Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u114	Well, I'd like to respond briefly. I said yesterday at Op1 that I think the brokering should be made responsible for a better yield price for the farmer. In our election programme, we even suggested setting up a system in which supermarkets, for example, will contribute to additional animal and environmental measures. Mr. Klaver shoppers selectively. We will not talk about falsehoods if Mr Klaver himself claims on television that the livestock is only growing as he decreases. The last thing I want to say is about polarizing and feeding things. Mr Klaver regularly places tweets with one sentence: cows or houses. Let him think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u115	Finally. When it comes to the cost and the selling price, I hear a lot about products. I'm talking about something else. When you look at who makes money from a kilo of meat, you see that most of it isn't even at the supermarkets. For example, it belongs to the cattle transporters. That deserves a very large part. There's a very large part of the food merchants where they make money. Those protests we were watching yesterday are funded by that industry. That's what I'm talking to you about. I'll never hear about that. It's about this industry. Those are the ones who are trying to stir up these peasant protests, because they see that their business model is going away. To be honest, this is what I'm saying. Let's say we're going to carry out the cabinet's plans properly. I have serious doubts about that, but if we are going to carry it out properly, then we are going to help farmers. Then we're going to make sure there are fewer animals, but hopefully more farmers, because that's what we all want. But if we continue along the road that you propose, then there are these large family farms, which have billions in the bank account, which benefit from it, but there is no farmer in this country. It is scandalous to see that so many farmers can't even make ends meet, that they need subsidies from Europe to have a little income at all, while those big industrialists earn a lot. I never hear about them, but I never do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u116	That's just bullshit. I don't think I should go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u117	Get on it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u118	Then it's gonna be some kind of, uh, well-nice game. I think Mr Klaver wants to put a little stamp on me that either the animal feed trade pays me or that I am linked to it. That's just bullshit. And certainly, I also worked at the Dutch Association of Varkenhouwers, which later became the Producers Organisation Pork Farming. There we have, as an organisation, I know that this is still the case today, and we have had a lot of discussions about prices and the market power of pig farmers themselves; they must be able to be entrepreneurs. We ourselves have a responsibility in this. Mr Klaver still ignores the higher cost that is also imposed. That is simply a fact: that cost is simply incurred by legislation and regulation. We'll put them here. Every new rule costs a farmer money. And I'm definitely willing to work on that yield price.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u120	It's what a farmer asks for. If that is what it takes for animal feed manufacturers to contribute to it, I will stand for it. You say that the farm protest is financed entirely by the animal feed manufacturers; is that not possible or so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u121	I come to the end, because here everything comes together. I'll sit down for it, whatever the answer is. But why does the cost go up? That's what I indicated in my very first interruption. There are all kinds of innovations you argue for: more innovations imposed on farmers, such as air scrubbers, emission-free floors, all that sort of thing. To finance that, you need to take out loans. This increases the cost of your product. That is precisely why I am opposed to such measures, because it is not a sustainable solution for these farms. Then you'll get over it. You're just pretending it's the farmer. Then the cost will go up and then it will have to be paid by the consumer. I think the consumer should also contribute, but I do not hear you consistently about the whole inter-trade in it: how much the animal feed industry deserves, how much the meat traders earn and the cattle transporters. That's where by far the most lingers. They'll take care of it. Those who really put the noose around the farmer's farm are these holdings. They're milking the farmers, all the way. That's what happens. I do not hear you say that, because you stand up for this industry as well, much more than you stand up for the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u122	I've never heard so much nonsense in a few sentences. It's really bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u123	Will you answer me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u124	Sorry, Mr President, Mr Klaver is asking outside the microphone if I want to answer, but I think I have been here for some time now to answer. But it's just not true. The farmers themselves have also held regular protests, even at Vion, for example, a butcher's shop. Those farmers have done so on a regular basis. I worked at the NVV, and that's what we fought against. I often say that: I am not standing up for the meat industry or the abattoirs. That is simply an assumption, which is also based on incorrect data being disseminated. Anyway, we'll talk about that another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u126	I'm standing here in front of the farmer, and I know the farmers know that. If Mr Klaver doesn't know that, I don't really care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u127	There is a point of order from Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u128	It's a bit of a shame I have to wait half an hour to make a point of order. Anyway, Mr. Klaver is performing to call Mrs. Van der Plas poison. He then makes a reference to dog whistles. That is a direct reference to right-wing extremism. As far as I'm concerned, it's very dangerous and incredibly bad to do that here. Often it happens the other way around. If words are used here as "dirty" or "tribunals," they are dealt with very hard. This provokes extreme left-wing violence towards what is called the far right. I think you should intervene and I think Mr Klaver should take back his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u129	Thank you. I think Mrs van der Plas has responded adequately to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u130	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u131	I'm appealing to everyone. I believe that the debate has so far been worthy and conducted on the substance and not on the person. Let's keep it that way. I suggest that we suspend very briefly, because I get the signal that some people need to wash their hands. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u132	I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to endorse Mr Klaver's point. I also think it can't be both true. If you don't doubt the integrity of a scientist, you can't say things like, "I thought it was suspicious." Hopefully Mrs van der Plas will be able to clarify which of the two positions she holds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mrs. Van der Plas wants to do that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u135	I think I've been clear in my words. You should not doubt science or scientists, but I do think you should ask critical questions about scientists, about science or about scientific research. It seems pretty normal for you to do that. They say I'm a conspiracy thinker. Mr Klaver has just unfolded a complete plot about me. I would support the cattle trade or the cattle trade. It works both ways. I'd like to appeal to you to stop suggesting that there's a conspiracy at all. As far as I'm concerned, there's no conspiracy. I have serious critical questions. I can just put it here, and I'll get an answer to that. If I get that answer, I'll be able to use it again. Then I can think again. That's how it works in a debate. If it's suggested that I'm standing here in front of the meat industry, I think, "Who's the conspirator here?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u136	This goes back to the debate Mrs van der Plas had with Mr Klaver. Of course, you can ask critical questions in science. The point was that Mrs Van der Plas just said that the integrity of this scientist is not being questioned, while we heard her earlier saying that she thought it was a bit suspicious. My question was only which of these two points of view is it? That's a little sticky now. I would like to conclude with this point, unless Mrs Van der Plas wishes to comment on it. I'd like to begin my actual interruption. That was the point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u137	Anyway, this does, of course, evoke a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u138	Maybe this point is misunderstood, or I said it wrong. It's all possible. I have not doubted Mr Hordijk's integrity, certainly not. I think he just got an invitation from Nieuwsuur and he went there. My doubts are as follows. Why was he invited by Nieuwsuur at the time? What could be behind that? Well, let me put it this way. Could there have been any influence there, from a ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u139	Well, sorry. There are laughs here, but in the past it has been shown that there is influence on news broadcasts or documentaries, for example. Let's not pretend we're all crazy here. It happens. Mr President, the debate is going this way again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u140	Let's... I think you've got it...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u141	I keep saying that I can just ask questions about that. This can be answered by the ministers. That's how it works. If there's nothing to do with that, I'd like to hear it. That's all I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mrs Van der Plas, you have exchanged enough with Mr Klaver. Mrs Ouwehand asked for that too. Perhaps you could start now with your question, Mrs Ouwehand. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u143	I would like to close this point of order by saying that it will not be better if, after the integrity of scientists, those of independent journalists are questioned. That is what Mrs Van der Plas then did: yes, perhaps Newsuur did not run an independent editorial board, but they were influenced by the Ministry. Of course, that doesn't get any better. So my point of order is: don't do this. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u144	Well, sorry. Let's not be more creamy than the Pope. Journalists make daily requests here, including to me and to other MPs: if you have anything else, let us know. That happens with Op1, Beau, Jinek and Humberto Tan: if you have anything else, let us know, because maybe you can get on the air. That's just... There's nothing bad about that either, because that's how it works. When I was a journalist, I also said to people, "Hey, call me if you have any news or anything fun, or if you want to say something about it here or there. They're acting like that's some kind of outrageous thing. It may well be that it has been said from the Ministry, or by anyone else, that the editorial board of Nieuwsuur, I would like Mr Hordijk to come to you and explain it to you. That is a perfectly normal way of doing things. But it's okay for me to ask, isn't it? Is that what happened because I asked these questions here? That's my only question. You shouldn't make that some big thing that I would question the integrity of scientists and that I would be anti-independent journalists. That's just a laugh. That's really the biggest piece of shit there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand. Shall we go back to nitrogen policy after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u146	I'd love to, but this is important. It's very subtle, but there's really a difference between journalists here asking if you have any news and keeping their independence completely in choosing what to do in the end and here suggesting that Nieuwsuur didn't practice independence because the ministry would have plugged in: it's useful if that Hordijk is on your broadcast, because that's convenient for us. The latter is the suggestion that Mrs Van der Plas has made here. That's bad. We'll make a point of that. This undermines confidence in independent journalism and independent science. Critical questions may always be asked, but this kind of suggestion is harmful. My appeal to Mrs Van der Plas is: don't do that, no matter how subtle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u147	I am going to devote one sentence to this: that is not my suggestion, that is your conclusion. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u148	Mrs Ouwehand, please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u149	I was just checking to see if the colleagues wanted to join us. That is not necessarily necessary, but because Mr Van Haga just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u150	You are now speaking and it has been sufficiently discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u151	If this point of order is not finished, then it has to be finished. That's why I looked around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u152	That's a little tempting, Mrs. Ouwehand. Mr. Klaver, do you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u153	Yes, I would like to endorse the point. We really need to be careful how we talk about journalists and scientists here. We see that the suggestion is being made that they are so influenced by a ministry, that they are not independent and that they are doing things on behalf of politics. This creates a climate in the Netherlands in which journalists can no longer go to protests with logos on their vans and microphones. That's dangerous. I think that as a Chamber we should draw a line there. That is why I come forward to fully endorse Mrs Ouwehand's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u154	You support the point of order. Let me take a look at Mr De Groot. Does he also want to support the point of order? That's the case. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u155	I will say a few words about this. Yes, you can hear me sighing. It's all such nonsense. Anyway, I'll say something about it. I'm not questioning the integrity of journalism. I don't question the integrity of scientists. Again, I do ask critical questions about it. It's okay. That's what I'm allowed to do. Journalists are allowed to do that to me; the other way around it is allowed to do that. I think that's a very healthy situation. Finally, however, there is a suggestion about a Member of Parliament that it would not be independent. It is suggested to me that I am somehow hanging on to a string from the meat industry, from the cattle trade, from the transporters. That is literally said here in this Chamber. I am actually just more or less accused of it if we are going to be suggestive: that is how I take it, although perhaps it is not meant to be that, as a Member of Parliament, I, as a Member of Parliament, would actually be some sort of corrupt. I think that's very, very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u156	You can now distance yourself from that by making it a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u157	I'm definitely gonna distance myself from that, absolutely. I'm already being accused of that on Twitter and other social media. It comes from a certain angle. I keep getting it in my face. I'm really gonna consider the following. Of anyone who accuses me of this in any way, it will not be in the Chamber, because here you are immune, but of anyone outside the Chamber who accuses me of it again, in any way, I will demand that they, one, come with proof, with documents, showing that that is so. And if I don't, I'm gonna go to court and sue anyone who says it one more time. For whose integrity is questioned, here, in this Chamber? My integrity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u158	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u159	I'm taking a very long distance from that. I don't get mad easily, but it's me now. I think it's very serious what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u160	Let us now turn to Mrs Ouwehand and return to nitrogen policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u161	Luckily, we can always go to court in our country. Let's keep it that way. My question to Mrs Van der Plas would be as follows. I fully agree with her that it is very far-reaching for farmers. No other profession is so intertwined with what they do for their work and the place where they live, often for generations, connected to the ground. Of course, that's incredibly far-reaching. A very painful point, however, is that fundamental choices have been constantly postponed by appealing to the interests of farmers. As a result, we are now in a situation in which farmers are more or less told that they must now go wrong. That is because those fundamental choices, which we knew had to be made a long time ago, were not made because of a lack of political courage. That's basically what it's all about. My question to Mrs Van der Plas would be the same as I have always put to the CDA, all these years. Please acknowledge that this policy is what you know is that livestock farming as a whole is going beyond all environmental limits. Then you can do two things. Or you solve it with innovations, for which I hear Mrs van der Plas again plead. But we know the consequences. Over the last 20 years, the number of animals has barely decreased, but the number of farms has been halved. That's because you're trying to solve what can't be solved with technology and innovation. But with that, we have taken away farmers all these precious years in which we could have helped them change with perspective, in which we can also find each other: protect that market from cheap imports from outside. If you don't face this, you're actually playing casino with farmers' interests, because we know that those innovations aren't going to do enough. I've always said this to CDA and VVD. I am so curious to hear Mrs Van der Plas on this. Why don't you choose to be honest about this and say: we stop gambling if we're gonna be okay with innovations? 'Cause you haven't gotten anywhere with that in the last 20, 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr Klaver just said the same thing. I think Mrs Ouwehand also refers, for example, to an air washer. Air scrubbers are just required. Factories are going to create a system that can do that and ultimately it doesn't work. This is quite different from putting innovation into the market. Market forces are implementing something that isn't there yet and what you don't need from the law. That's how it works. What is being said here is really something completely different from an air washer. We have been to Bleskensgraaf with a farmer who has an innovative system that can reduce 70% nitrogen. Minister Van der Wal was there too. That system is already active on a number of farms. That's a big success. The Minister herself said on the spot that she thinks it is a fantastic system. I'm talking about that kind of innovation, where it's proven to be reduced. Why wouldn't you bet on that? I think this is so crazy, because in the Netherlands it is said by all companies that innovations are beautiful. Suppose we say of all sectors, "You know, we shouldn't focus on these innovations, because they may not help at all. We just shouldn't. Take, for example, the car manufacturers. We just have to cut that car pile. Please do not innovate, because it has been proven so often that innovation does not succeed." Well, then I guess on gentlemen's roads it was serious about CO emissions, so to speak. The car industry did it. He developed that himself. This starts with a soot filter for example; by now we are already with electric cars. If we had stopped that here, the climate minister would not have been happy, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u164	So I'm on innovation. On the contrary, I would encourage it to come out of the market. Let that farmer be an entrepreneur, too. Let him also look at these innovations in consultation with knowledge institutions. I find it very strange that this is being stopped here, because innovations seem to be working in other sectors as well. That's how we move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u165	Personally, the Minister for Climate is a happy egg. He is a very cheerful person, but of course not when it comes to CO emissions. In other sectors too, Mrs Van der Plas is right in saying that there is a great deal to be done: no fundamental changes, no changes to the system and no fundamental choices. No, we solve it with innovations. I remember a broadcast of VPRO Counter-Light, in which a large mention was made of a durable tumble dryer. Then I thought, "You mean a laundry rack?" Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! You're not gonna make it and you're not gonna make it. We know this about other sectors, but also about livestock farming. It depends on technological innovations. Farmers rightly say: "Well, good is that, I've been told that it would be enough if I were to invest in "I'm just calling it "an energy-poor stable floor." I do that, I apply for a loan and I get a grant. That's a lot of fun, but that grant isn't enough, so I have to borrow too." The Rabobank says: that's great fun, but then you have to take more animals, because otherwise you can't pay it back. As a result, we have seen farmers disappear from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u166	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u167	There are only big guys left who can handle this and everyone makes money from the farmer: the Rabobank, the stable builder and the baker who invented a low-emission stable floor. Mrs. Van der Plas knows that. The fact that we delayed this fundamental choice for far too long has led us to lose half the farmers. I would like to call on Mrs Van der Plas not to bet on any more uncertainty, because that is what you do when you ask for more innovation. Another point made by Mrs Van der Plas...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr President, this will be my last question to Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u170	Yes, but Mrs. Van der Plas must be able to follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u171	I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u172	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u173	That's all right. The point is that innovation gives farmers an uncertain perspective for the future, especially in view of the results of the past. The other point that Mrs van der Plas makes here and which I have always warned the farmers is that the rules for nature, the environment and the climate are normal. Mrs van der Plas can say that this is a political choice and we can get rid of it. But she hasn't done that yet. Agriculture will therefore have to comply with this. If you pretend to be able to get rid of those rules, you play high game with the interests of the farmers. That's the point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u174	That is a point, but not a specific question. I'll still respond to a few little things. Mrs Ouwehand cites the example of the laundry rack as a durable dryer. That's very funny and very funny, but of course that's unfeasible. Ask people at home who have some children to hang everything on a laundry rack. Ask people living in Kanalen Island on three-high-back to hang a laundry rack for their big family. It's great to have a tumble dryer. Ask hotels to stop drying sheets in a dryer, but just to hang up a laundry rack. That's just completely unfeasible. But I do like that she says it, because it gives a nice picture of: we can go back to the times of Ot and Sien. We'd all love to, but I don't think we can. I don't think that's gonna happen. I don't think people were very healthy then either, as they did a lot of physical work and didn't have the luxury of appliances. So they couldn't do other things, like go to the gym while the dryer's running. That's one. Two. I would like to say a few words about 'the peasants gone'. It has been said that this is all because of the powerful, large lobby or industry. If the cost price goes up, the farmer can do two things: stop or turn the volume button. The volume button means keeping more animals. Most of the farmers will do that because they just want to stay a farmer. Some of the farmers will, but most of them will because they just want to stay a farmer because they don't want to sell and don't want to stop. I personally know farmers who say: I just really don't want to, so I quit. But in my opinion, most of the number of stopping farmers simply stops because they don't have a successor. That's why farmers often stop. They're older farmers whose kids started doing something different. They went to Rotterdam or Groningen to study to become a lawyer or surgeon, which are all very beautiful and honourable professions. So I'd like to get rid of the image that it's coming through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u175	You have another question, don't you, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u176	Yeah, finally. If, as an economy as a whole or as a sector, you simply go too far beyond the environmental limits, you have to make other choices. It is funny that Mrs Van der Plas takes that point off as: back to the times of Ot and Sien. That's funny in itself. That is not new in this debate either, but I will leave it for a moment. We will come back to that in another debate. I actually hear Mrs van der Plas moving away from the whole fundamental question about the perspective and choices that farmers are entitled to. Is that honesty? Or are we going to try again to solve the problems with innovations, of which we know the results from the past? That's not fair. Mrs van der Plas does not go into my point that she is actually suggesting to farmers that you could make a different political choice with regard to all those rules that we finally have to abide by together, for the climate, water quality and nature. That's very risky. I believe that farmers are entitled to more honesty and clarity. I expect that, at the moment in the agricultural debate, actually you are from Mrs van der Plas' party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u177	The comparison I made with "back to the times of Ot and Sien" was about the dryer and not about the environmental rules for farmers. This is coupled in a handy hook again, but of course that is not the case. Look back at the footage, I'd say. There are environmental rules and we have to comply with them. Did I ever say we shouldn't meet that? Did I ever tell the farmers to break the rules? I don't think I said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u178	You can tell me what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u179	That's a very good tip, Mr. Chairman. You have to comply with the rules. You can't agree with traffic lights, but if the traffic light's on red, you're gonna have to stop anyway. And if you don't stop and you get caught, you get a fine. That's how it works in our beautiful Netherlands. So I didn't say that. Finally, about being honest about policy, so I would talk farmers to the mouth and not promise them honest things. I'm actually constantly trying to get a fair policy here. A small example is the discussion on plant protection products. A number of parties in this Chamber want the Netherlands to have stricter rules than EU policies. That is also going to cause a lot of misery, for example in the field of agriculture. If, for example, we do not have good alternatives to certain resources, then we should not abolish them. Mrs Ouwehand also knows that the sector is already working very hard on biological alternatives. Some alternatives work, but some alternatives don't work. That's also innovation. They know that: some work, some don't work. Of this, Mrs Ouwehand believes that we should do so in particular. We need to do this innovation; even if it doesn't work sometimes, no, but you have to try. That's a very good point. On the other hand, I find the same. So I'm in the middle of a fair policy. I think that Mrs Ouwehand and perhaps some other colleagues here should distinguish two things: my struggle for the families themselves and the people who are involved and the fight for a fair policy. If I stand up for farmers here, I stand up for those families, for the people sitting there, and for whom I know they all ask me those questions. And that farmer isn't crazy when he asks those questions. Those farmers have been here for decades, centuries. They know that. They don't ask weird questions. They just don't get it. That's what I'm trying to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u180	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I notice that we're going to talk to each other a little longer, so I'd like to ask everyone to formulate a little more compactly. Maybe that's because we're heading for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u181	A quick question. In May 2019, the highest judge in the Netherlands ruled that the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, was not correct and that nitrogen emissions should first be reduced in order to restore nature, and that only then can new permits be issued for house construction, for example. Does the BoerCitizen Movement recognize that statement? That's my question. And does the FarmerCitizen Movement also recognise the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u182	Yes and yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u183	I did ask to be compact, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u184	I'm doing exactly what you're asking me to do now, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u185	I have no complaints now, but we are going to listen to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u186	That is good, because it supports one of the pillars on which we are building this society and which is very important for D66. But then you can't imagine halving the number of natural areas? The same judge would immediately refer that to the realm of fables. So I can't completely rhyme with that. If you accept the rule of law, you cannot imagine halving the number of natural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u187	I find this a very strange question, because I did not say at all: we go outside the law for a moment that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that and those natural areas. It's just gonna have to be regulated by law. So I don't really understand the question. Does Mr De Groot think... I'll explain. I had this point here in the text of my contribution, but I deleted it for the sake of time. It's a short paragraph, you know. We need to halve the number of Natura 2000 sites. The Netherlands has far too many small Natura 2000 sites. Of the 162 Natura 2000 sites, 32 are under 200 hectares. Most of the small Natura 2000 sites would be overloaded with nitrogen, not the largest Natura 2000 sites. That is why we need to rearrange all Natura 2000 sites. This concerns the administrative regrouping of areas and the merging of one area with another. The re-evaluation of Natura 2000 policy requires a straight back from our cabinet to Brussels. Is the Minister prepared to make Brussels a fiercely attractive offer? So I ask the Minister whether she wants to go to Brussels with this. Mr De Groot concludes that I just want to delete some Natura 2000 sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u188	That's exactly what you're doing, and that's not implementing the judge's ruling. It simply calls for a substantial reduction in nitrogen emissions so that nature can be protected. That is something completely different from halfing the number of natural areas administratively. That's what worries me. It also worries me when I hear the BoerCitizen Movement talking about scientists, scientific institutes, the RIVM, the model that would not be right and the measurements that would not be enough, or when I hear the BoerCitizen Movement talking about the program Nieuwsuur. Yes, questions are asked, but they are very suggestive questions, in which the integrity of Nieuwsuur is questioned. I hear the BoerCitizen Movement about another pillar of our society, democracy. Yesterday there was a meeting where people of different opinion, fellow MEPs, were not welcome. In tweets that is normalized, banished. So I see the BoerCitizen Movement rejecting the variety of opinions that make our democracy so beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u189	I would like to point out that Mrs Van der Plas has already answered a number of questions about Nieuwsuur and the media. Let us not repeat that discussion now. Mrs van der Plas on the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u190	I'm not gonna respond to that. I understand that Mr De Groot would just like to say that for a moment. That's okay here, but I'm not gonna answer that anymore. We can look back at the footage. In my view, the judge's ruling was that the judge did not allow permits to be granted on the pof, i.e. to grant a permit and then reduce nitrogen later. I think that was the judge's ruling. The judge said that we should not do that, because that does not give any certainty about the conservation of nature. I don't think the judge said we should start reducing nitrogen emissions because nature is being destroyed. I don't remember exactly, but we might be able to read that back. At least I don't remember that. There may still be statements about this online; I'll find out. But I think that's it. I think that was the judge's ruling. He cut a line through that. I have the feeling that Mr De Groot is going to get things all mixed up over those natural areas again. Look, in those natural areas of course you also have to deal with those critical deposition values, which are simply unfeasible here. Mr De Groot is delighted that he has a warm heart for science and that he says that you have to trust and believe science, but for example the Planning Office for the Environment also says that those goals, those KDW's, that nitrogen precipitation on nature..........................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u191	Mrs van der Plas is giving the answer, because you think it is all ridiculous. Bringing the nitrogen back is exactly what the judge asked. With this, you also ridicule the judge, the scientists and journalism. What I am so sorry about is that we had this discussion already, with your solutions, which are not solutions, farmers are being sprinkled in the eyes. Those concerned farmers believe Mrs van der Plas and think: ah, perhaps there is another solution by going to Brussels to delete nature reserves; let us do so in particular. It's been tried ten times. Or they're thinking, maybe that judge is wrong or maybe that science is wrong and we need to know it to the last cow. Well, we know more than enough to get to work. So every time your stories throw sand into the eyes of those peasants. In fact, I find that very mean and misleading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u192	Mrs van der Plas, I think that was just a question from Mrs Ouwehand. And let's not do it too much on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u193	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u194	I don't do it on the person either. But you can see the farmers themselves suffering from what is happening here, because these questions are being whispered here. As with the tobacco industry, under the guise of "I am merely asking questions," it creates a lot of misunderstandings. I think it is really very mean to the farmers to do so, because the honest story requires something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u195	In my opinion, you have had the same question a few times, including from other colleagues. So if you take the short...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u196	Exactly. I advise everyone to just look back on those questions from others, also for the sake of time. I just want to say that I'm not ridiculing anything. I'll tell you what the PBL, the Plan Bureau for the Environment, says about the KDWs. I'm saying they're ridiculously strict. That is not what the PBL says in those words, but the PBL actually says the same thing, namely that they are simply unfeasible. The PBL itself also indicates that the KDW should be used as an indicator instead of as a result obligation. So not, just as simple as that: you have to live up to it, otherwise you will be punished. No, as an indicator. The Planning Office for the Environment itself says that if a critical deposition value is exceeded in a nature reserve, which does not necessarily mean that nature is in poor condition and certainly not that nature has been destroyed there, as is sometimes said here: "nature is destroyed." No, says the Plan Bureau for the Environment, if the critical deposition value is exceeded in a particular Natura 2000 site or in a nature reserve, there is a risk that nature will be in a worse state there. That is what RIVM has said; so do not accuse me of questioning the scientists that, if this is the case, you have to look at what is going on and how, for example, you should be able to work with management measures. So I see the KDWs more as an indicator. Of course, I'd like them to be a little less strict, because you can never meet it. Then you have to look at how you are in a nature reserve, for example the Dune and Bulb Region... This is also stated in last July's PBL report: in the Dune and Bulb Region those KDW's are very heavily exceeded, but in a state of the PBL it says that the Dune and Bulb Region is in positive to restorative state. For me, therefore, this already indicates that exceeding those critical deposition values does not necessarily mean that the nature reserve is affected. This also has to do with management and with soil. Then you have to take measurements in the soil and see what the state of the soil is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u197	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u198	That is what I am talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u199	This whole argument is an example of how you're actually deluding your own supporters, for which you say you're standing up. This is a very long story, and all the same authorities also said that we know more than enough to get to grips with the approach that is now being taken. We know more than enough, because nature is very bad. So tell me that: that we have no other choice, also because the judge has instructed us to do so. And if she doesn't, then the supporters that Mrs van der Plas claims to represent have nothing to do with it. The honest story is that we really need to get to work now, with a warm heart for farmers. There is EUR 25 billion ready to restore nature and give farmers a future. That's the honest story. That's not gonna be easy, but that's what we have to do together. It would adorn the FarmerCitizen's Movement if they would also show the courage and take the responsibility to stand behind it and simply work for a real future for the farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u200	Yes, I do, just not the way Mr. De Groot wants me to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u201	When I learned after the last Lower House elections that the FarmerCitizen's Movement had gained a seat, I was pleased, because I assumed that the Forum for Democracy would finally not be the only party to fight a fundamental battle for the preservation of the agricultural sector, and that it had found an ally. Now I became somewhat skeptical when I saw that Mrs Van der Plas is coming out of the CDA and the LTO case. But last week my scepticism and doubt reached a low point, after Mrs van der Plas first tabled a motion to ease the nitrogen targets a little bit and take a little more time to do so, and after she presented yesterday a plan to reduce nitrogen emissions, for which she is, in fact, complimented by the VVD and of which the Christian Union says: we want to hang out with you. My question is: why does Mrs Van der Plas not see, or perhaps does she not want to see, that we are not dealing with a nitrogen crisis at all, but with a major nitrogen scandal? Why doesn't she join the real opposition, so that we can make a fist together for the preservation of our agricultural sector, rather than behind that sham opposition of "a little less," which you eventually go along with in those big lies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u202	Well, it's a pity for Mr Van Meijeren that he's disappointed in us. I don't have much to say about that. I'm on my own course. You're gonna have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u203	That's not just a shame for me. I'm not standing here before myself. I am particularly sorry for the agricultural sector. I would therefore like to ask whether Mrs Van der Plas would like to comment on my question as to why she does not want to see this. Because if you get compliments from the cartel parties and you're welcomed with open arms by the state media to tell your story in smells and colors, then you're obviously not a threat to power. If you have fundamental criticism and really want to do it differently, you will be excluded. And if you go along with the goals and want to do something else, you can join in. If Mrs. Van der Plas wants to participate rather than win, that's her right. But the reality is that those who do not want to win will eventually lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u204	At BBB we're talking about a created nitrogen problem. Mr Van Meijeren's conclusion that I am being received with open arms by the state media because I am allowed to sit at the table and talk along, I find a funny one. On the right is said: you go to the left media; you are very left. And left says, "That's where she's with the media again. What the hell is she doing there? She doesn't get a reply and she's far right." I can only think of that: okay, that's what you think; fine. I'm just doing what I do here. Again, Mr Van Meijeren may think what he wants. Again, we are talking about a created nitrogen problem and we will continue to talk about it in that way. If I am invited to someone, I say yes or no on the basis of whether I can make my point. If you're not, I'm not going. I'll go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u205	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u206	Mr. Chairman. We are on the eve of one of the most profound costly and risky blunders of this unreliable cabinet. After the energy crisis, the migration crisis, the climate crisis, the corona crisis, the housing crisis and the youth crisis, Rutte IV is now causing the nitrogen crisis and, as a result, with great certainty, a food crisis. And and passionately, this cabinet does euthanasia on farms, destroying centuries of hard work, innovation and production. Many hundreds of billions of farm power are in danger of being decapitalised. A frontal attack on property rights and destruction of our beautiful drilling culture. And for nothing! Because what are the facts? The emissions and deposition of nitrogen are not measured but estimated and then put into the unreliable AERIUS model, a model that, according to Delft's engineer, farmer and VVD member Mirjam Nelisse, is not properly modeled, misused. Moreover, it indicates that the critical deposition values, the KDWs, are not critical. By the way, the KDWs are 140 times lower than in Germany, so there is only a nitrogen problem in the Netherlands, but this aside. Finally, it states that Wob's documents show that the Hordijk Committee lacked information. I ask the nitrogen minister what is wrong with these four points. In addition, car traffic, air transport up to 900 metres above 900 metres is excluded from emissions and the industry emits far more nitrogen oxides than our farmers. When all farmers from the Netherlands are gone, we still do not meet our own stupid nitrogen standards. Even if you believe that nitrogen oxides and ammonia are a problem, you can no longer justify destroying the farmers on the basis of these facts. But the truth is that nitrogen is no problem for nature. The basis for nitrogenidity is that we have promised the EU that we will maintain our sand plains and our heathlands. When ammonia and nitrogen oxides fall on a sandy plain, that feed is for the soil and over time that sandy plain turns into a birch forest or an oak forest. But we can't do that anymore from the EU and our own ridicule laws. Therefore, my question to the Minister: why not just tell Brussels that we have made a stupid mistake, that we will fly into the Natura 2000 sites differently, and if that is not accepted, we will stop paying from that moment on and reward everything with a veto? The best solution is to just accept that sand flats will turn into forests. Get rid of the nitrogen problem. And of course you can also find innovative solutions to reduce the emissions of ammonia, for example. Is the Minister aware of the Delft start-up MEZT, for example? These engineers collect ammonia and make fertilizer from it: problem also solved. Isn't direct air capture just possible for nitrogen oxide? Mr. Chairman. For BVNL it is simple: nitrogen is no problem and no food without farmers. So let's take this file away from politicians and administrators and hand it over to engineers. Give back that 25 billion and spend it, for example, on purchasing power, in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u207	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman of the SP and then I suggest that we suspend for lunch. Given the amount of apps I get, people are starting to get hungry in the room! Go ahead, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u208	Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear immediately: the SP will not be able to support the plans in this way. The plans presented and the map have touched many in the heart. Instead of taking an approach for all extortionists, including industrial ones, and instead of a targeted approach for the peak farmers in agriculture and a clear perspective for others to switch, a map has been chosen that gives a lot of uncertainty but says rather little about individual farms, and for a perspective letter that offers no perspective. Then we see that the effects are shifted to the provinces. In short, while biofarmers are also thrown into uncertainty, coal farmers now have nothing to do. In the event of crisis, we see that the crisis has been caused by wrong political choices, that the cabinet has to wait too long to intervene, take action against the wall and thus hit society hard. In this way, we risk going from the erosion of the ground to the further deterioration of the countryside. Mr. Chairman. The SP has always been in favour of sustainable agriculture, against megalomania and scaling up, for investing in nature and landscapes and for reducing industrial emissions. We want to end this crisis in a just manner and we will make proposals for it. First of all, let the banks help pay for the crisis. Intensification of agriculture has been politically pursued and supported for many years. Banks, with Rabobank at the forefront, have also been actively promoting economies of scale in agriculture for many years. Dozens of billions of loans have stood out from the former Boerenleenbank. The profit is for the bank. Many farmers are stuck with this. Small-scale, sustainable production could and can often not be done. The cabinet now announces that it wants to buy out farmers and even expropriate them in the extreme. The money from the cabinet for this will, to a large extent, not reach the farmers, but the banks. The farmers who will soon be helped by public money to convert will also often have to pay off loans: farmers on the blisters and a new bail-out for banks. Public money ends up in banks instead of in rural areas. We asked questions about this last week, and we are doing it again. Does the government agree with us that banks should also contribute to the crisis that they themselves have caused? Does the cabinet agree with us that the hundreds of millions of public money belong not in bank buildings, but in rural areas? A lot of farmers thought two weeks ago that the policy announced would be clearer. Nothing could be further from the truth. We all hear the stories of farmers who, for example, already work or wish to do extensive work, but now see on a map that they are in an area where they have to reduce tremendously. There's no clarity. The support has been compromised and now the provinces have to do it. Why not opt for separate policies aimed at large peak drivers and a policy that supports others to switch? This card is very similar to a map of political choices. Mr. Chairman. For my party, the following must also be clear. If we're going to intervene now, do it right at once. You can't walk back into a yard in a few years' time and say: oh yes, here we also have some other goals that we would like you to achieve. Is there now an approach with which we directly achieve multiple goals? According to RIVM, climate targets and water targets are also included in the map. Are we gonna get those targets with this? But what about zoonoses and animal diseases? What about scent nuisance? And what does the Cabinet intend to do with the grounds that are released? It would really be an abomination to me if we had endless distribution centres, data centres and solar parks. Are you going to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. We think it is possible: more farmers instead of fewer, more farmers, fewer animals. But farmers are now stuck not only at Rabobank, but also between politics, world market and supermarket. A real conversion can only be achieved if we ensure that farmers can also earn a fair income. How will the Netherlands prevent the import of dumped meat and dairy products from countries thousands of kilometres away if the EU, with the support of the Dutch Government, adopts the CETA Convention? How does the Minister see that? Then you're gonna completely sabotage your own policy, aren't you? That's anti-cycle policy, isn't it? What is the view of the Ministers on this? CETA, on the contrary, is promoting the interests of these large agri-businesses? There will be no priority for local products. Mr. Chairman. We said it at the beginning. While biofarmers are also thrown into uncertainty, coal farmers now have nothing to do. Why didn't we choose to tackle all other emissions immediately? The nitrogen emissions from a number of industrial companies have actually increased, for example from the Nuon, now Vattenfallcentrale, right next to the Wadden Sea. KRO-NCrv Pointer shows that each of the three fastest riders has a questionable situation, such as the Rijnmond Energie power station in Rotterdam, which does not appear to have a natural permit. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? Isn't that how you're gonna completely destroy your support if you don't do this at the same time? Mr. Chairman. Too often political decisions have distorted the countryside here. In over a decade Rutte has disappeared from the countryside not only insects and meadow birds, but also facilities such as public transport, schools and hospitals that have become more and more privileges of the city. We do not support the policy that goes from a deterioration of the soil to a deterioration of the countryside. And that is why our call today is: tackle this crisis fairly, tackle industrial emissions and transporters, ensure that farmers do not get stuck between politics, bank, world market and supermarket. Let the banks contribute to the crisis that they themselves have caused, so that politics can ensure that farmers can switch with good decency, so that we do not let the money end up in a bank building, but let it end up in the countryside, so that we can ensure that there are no more hospitals, no more bus stops, and also the small neighbourhood school can continue to exist. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u209	Thank you. A final question from Mr Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u210	I listened to Mrs Beckerman's speech. I share with Mrs Beckerman the irritation and frustration about this map, in which it is only about ammonia and then only about ammonia from livestock farming, with percentages that are hugely different. I also share the concern about the impact on rural areas. Is that gonna be liveable? It's not just about milking the cow, it's also about solidarity, about communities, about the neighborhood cafe, about carnival. That's the quality of life in the countryside. But I also heard Mrs Beckerman be very critical of the role that the cabinet intends to give to the provinces. Does she not agree with me that it is precisely because this area-based approach can be developed and that it is precisely there that a fund of 25 billion very territorially oriented can be invested by those provinces that they know that much better than we do together here in The Hague, that precisely because these investments for the viability of rural areas can be made much better than if we were to determine this here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u211	I want a lot of answers to that. First of all, I was very pleased to hear Mr Van Campen say at Op1 that agriculture is not just about milking cows. Today it is also about the football club in the village, about the band, about the village party, about carnival. We can see that the countryside is falling apart. And we also see that the House of Representatives is contributing to this. A small example. Last week, there was a proposal from Habtamu de Hope that not a third of the bus lines that threaten to disappear in rural areas should actually disappear. And what does your party do? You will vote against that motion. What do you see happening? People hear on the one hand: for the climate you have to go on public transport. But a third of the lines disappear. That is also the fragmentation of the countryside that we are talking about here today. Those are also amenities. This is just one proposal, one motion, not even from my own party. I'm not here to beat myself on the chest. It's a PvdA motion. I think that hurts. I think those blows hurt. That is why today we propose that if you free up so many billions, you should not allow them to end up in a bank building, but that that money should end up where it belongs. We can see that the countryside is divisive. When reading the perspective letter, I really understand that you can't create some kind of blueprint and that would be even undesirable. I agree with you that this is exactly what you need to talk about. But when I read it, I think we don't have a clue. It says a hundred times: this has yet to be worked out; this is still to be done. Well, then you can see how that's gonna get there, can't you? Well, then you can see how that's gonna happen in a yard like this. Mr. Chairman. I don't look away from hard choices. My party has always advocated, from its very beginning, farming for small scale. But you can't achieve that solution this way. That's what you achieve with the human measure. I'd like to argue in favour of that. Mr. Van Campen, you're out of interruptions, so I'll be in your office later. I would really like you to support this plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u212	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I'd like to suspend the meeting until 1:45 p.m.
