ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Spring paper 2022. I suspended last time during the first term of office. The cabinet then indicated that it would come up with a letter in which it would respond to the various proposals and answer a number of questions. I therefore suggest that we do not repeat the debate last time, but that the Spring letter in particular is on the agenda. In terms of interruptions, I propose three or four questions or comments. And then a normal second term. That would be my M.O. today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u2	Mr President, on a point of order. I think Mr Klaver asked for all kinds of scenarios last time. That's what we'd be waiting for. We have received a letter in which, in fact, about everything we have proposed, it says that it is not possible. An additional VAT rate of 5% on energy is not possible. The rates of income tax can't be reduced and payroll tax can't be reduced. It is not possible to increase the minimum wage, still in 2022. We can't lower tuition fees. So I suggest we just move on to the second term, because this really doesn't make any sense. I would like to ask my fellow Members whether they agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u3	I'm gonna listen to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u4	We have the same question. We have the next direct question to the cabinet. We got the letter, so we've seen what we can't do. We're aware of that. So I do not think that should be repeated. I am curious how the cabinet, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance dare to come here empty-handed. Do they really not see what is going on in society at the moment? Do they not see these alarming reports from the Nibud and the CPB about millions of households that are just completely broken at the moment? It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u5	What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u6	The point of order is how the cabinet thinks it dares to appear here in this way, while the cabinet has taken two weeks to figure things out. All we see is there's nothing we can do. They shoot everything off the Chamber and they come up with zero ideas themselves; zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u7	That is a substantive question. Mr Van Haga made a point of order. I think it would be a good idea to throw Mr Van Haga's proposal into the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u8	Mr. Chairman. It is good to say something about this, because the previous speakers are of course quite right. We're just standing here for Piet Snot. Not only the opposition, but also the coalition, whatever you think, has made proposals to do something for people's purchasing power. The cabinet raises a thick middle finger against everyone, against 150 members of the House of Representatives. That's what they do. That doesn't make much difference to us yet, but of course it does for the people at home. So my proposal is, Madam President... I would like to have the opportunity to table a motion. And for the rest, please let's go home and stop this circus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u9	I have all sorts of ideas about what the cabinet has done. I find it disappointing. But we've asked to respond. They did, so thank you for those pieces. I would like to have the opportunity to ask a few more questions about this, because I am not convinced that it is not possible. This is also a matter of unwillingness. We need to have the debate on this with each other, so I would like to be able to ask some questions. Then we can have a second term and file motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u10	I also wonder what was picked up with that round of Rutte and Kaag. Actually, it's Rutte says no. And here we are. I also have a few brief questions. As far as I am concerned, we will begin with the first term of office. A few questions, but then quickly to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u11	I totally understand the disappointment. I also have the frustration that nothing seems to be possible at all, but I also think it is right that we should at least have the debate on it and get a better explanation about it, because I think there is much more possible than the cabinet has shown in this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u12	A few weeks ago, we suspended the debate. The first period of office has not been completed, so I support Mr Klaver's proposal that we simply start with the first-term completion. Then everyone can ask their questions and then we can move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u13	I agree with what Mr Heerma said, so no support for Mr Van Haga's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u14	I also agree with Mr Klaver's proposal. Let's have the debate. We also have questions. We're also in the middle of a search for what we can do. That is what this debate is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u15	Thank you. Then I conclude that we are starting with the first term of office. However, a number of colleagues have asked for the first deadline to be short and for the second deadline to be moved rather quickly. I have not yet said this: I welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State, as well as the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. I suggest we get started. The cabinet has indicated that the Prime Minister is giving an explanation. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u16	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it is good to speak a single explanatory word. You've already been able to read the pieces. This also shows that there are still technical possibilities to take action this year, but that the disadvantage is that, analysing everything, we are irresponsiblely asking many questions from our public service providers. I will be speaking about the municipalities in a few moments, because we have sent a supplementary letter on this matter today. So I'm going to separate the municipalities, but for the rest of the service providers I may not call municipalities public service providers, but they are of course doing a lot of work on implementation, you can see that it's actually irresponsible. Those execution risks have to weigh up the cabinet. In fact, we already mentioned this in the debate last time. We have now analyzed that very precisely. You can see that in those pieces. In addition, many of the measures mentioned will only be effective by the end of the year, i.e. not right now, but only by the end of the year. From 1 January 2023, there will again be all the possibilities to use all the buttons provided by the tax, supplement and social security system. This simply requires less from those public service providers, from the implementation. Moreover, you can look much more closely at what you can do to mitigate the effects of rising prices and inflation and take structural measures that better reflect the structural nature of the problem. Therefore, the Cabinet has a strong preference to take an integral decision on additional purchasing power measures in August on the basis of the most up-to-date CPB estimates. I shall now come to the energy allowance separately. You received today the letter from the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. In that supplementary letter you can see that municipalities have informed us in previous administrative and administrative consultations that a lot of capacity is already needed to serve the target group with the energy surcharge. On 4 July, a further administrative consultation was held between Minister Schouten for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions and the VNG. Municipalities then announced that, if generic possibilities are excluded by government executives, the increase of the energy surcharge for 2022 is negotiable. They did make a number of comments. You were able to see that in the letter. The evaluation of the applications of the current group is still in full swing. The VNG states that an increase in the amount may require more time than the legislative proposal provides. Compensation under the bill will have to be made before 31 December 2022. It may then have to be extended by one year. In addition, in order to be practicable, it is also important, say the municipalities, that the target group does not change. It should be noted that the content of the energy surcharge has a number of disadvantages. I'd like to report them here anyway. First of all, it increases the gap between households that receive the energy allowance and households that do not receive the energy allowance. This measure does not reach the group above 120% of the social minimum. Because in many cases it is likely to continue in 2023, it is also interesting, in the eyes of the Cabinet, to make a further weighing in August whether you cannot look much better at measures that can apply this year, but above all in 2023 and beyond. We would prefer to weigh this in full in August, after the Central Planning Office has published a current picture of purchasing power. That as a brief explanation of both letters, that of Friday and that of this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u17	I really don't have any words for this. We have had the whole debate to do something extra in 2022, this year. The Prime Minister does not seem to realize that people are already in financial trouble, with inflation, with the energy bill; we have mentioned all the examples. Households in the Netherlands are financially on fire. And then they call the prime minister, a bit of the fire chief of the Netherlands, but what do they hear? Well, we're gonna have a little chat in August to see if we're gonna stop by next year. Then those people are already broken. Those households aren't gonna be okay! So what does the Prime Minister say to all those people who are no longer able to pay their bills this year, who have to do a whole week's shopping this year of €25, who are already not getting their medicines from the pharmacist this year, who were in bed early this year in January, when it got cold, and who are afraid that they will have to do it again by the end of this year? What do you say to them: wait until 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u18	No, I'm not telling them that. I say to that group that the cabinet in, also in European comparison, has adopted two large steps with measures of 6.5 billion in order to mitigate the effects of the price increases. On 1 January we reduced the energy tax by €400. As of last Friday, we reduced VAT on energy from 21% to 9%. This saves €140 for an average household, €20 per month. The excise duty on petrol and diesel was reduced by €0,17 and €0,11 respectively on 1 April. Municipalities are currently paying out the energy allowance. Vulnerable households receive €800 and we help with energy saving and lowering measures amounting to 300 million. As of 1 July, the minimum wage and the associated benefits increased by 1.8% this time, as usual. Added to this is a package of 6.5 billion. We're talking about what extra would be needed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u19	This is truly unheard of. The Prime Minister looks at his cathedral and reads a number of texts for those officials who have chewed up, completely without any empathy; I have said that before. I'm asking him what real people, just the people at home, who are watching television right now, are going through. Your official texts are of no use to them; you are not even looking at me when you speak them. Look at those people at home through me. They can't pay their bills anymore! You can list a whole list of petrol and I know what, but it's not enough. It's not enough. The entire Chamber, from your own coalition to the entire opposition, wanted you to do more in 2022, but you raise a thick middle finger to the Netherlands. You won't do it. You refuse. And again the question, because I want to get an answer to it: what do you say to all those people who are unable to do so despite your measures? And what do you say very specifically to the 93-year-old gentleman who had and has to make it through the week, and to the woman who didn't get her medication from the pharmacist because she, also with your measures, can't pay her own contribution? What do you say to these people? Speak to those people directly in the camera! What do you say to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u20	Come on, Mr Wilders, keep those instructions for your own group; deal with your own group in this way, but not with me. But I would like to come back to your question. I'm going to answer your question, but I'd like to answer it in a normal tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u21	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u22	I think I have the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u23	Yes, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u24	Here's what I'm gonna say to these people. This cabinet pays 6.5 billion to alleviate the consequences of the massive rise in prices. We have adopted packages that are at the top of what is happening in Europe. Unfortunately, we cannot solve all the problems of rising inflation and rising energy prices. At the same time, we do a lot, for the people with a small scholarship, for the middle groups, for the people who are dealing with a higher energy bill. Let's see what else we can do. But I would point out to Mr Wilders one thing. We have had a lot of debates in this Chamber about the problems that exist in our implementation organisations. That's where fantastic people work. Whether it is the debate on the child care allowance affair or the debates on other problems in implementation, if we here in the Chamber ignore the problems there and think that we can keep stacking, then we should not be surprised if further problems eventually arise in that implementation. That's unwise. We have looked at the various ideas that lived here to the best of our knowledge. We come to the conclusion that, when it comes to our public service providers, they pose too much risk, except for today's news as far as the municipalities are concerned. There seems to be a little more potential there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u25	Finally, Mr President. Apparently, the Prime Minister gets annoyed. Now it's the tone. He says to me: save that tone for the group. He gets annoyed. And when the Prime Minister gets annoyed and can't control himself anymore, you usually shoot. Because Mr. Prime Minister, I repeat, you're not doing anything for those people this year. They are not waiting for a measure before August 2023. Let me mention two proposals made by the PVV. You could give the elderly extra €25 per month through the income support for the elderly, the IO-AOW. The letter says it's totally executable. It's possible, and it's possible right away. A second proposal is that you could reduce the low rate of VAT. Your Finance Minister says that this cannot be done in general, but we could put it at 0% for messages from 1 October. Even according to European directives, this is allowed. You won't do it. You're fucking right. It's not a implementation problem. You start whining to me about the tone, but measures that can, leave you behind and you get annoyed. Mr. Rutte, people know what you're doing: nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u26	I rarely get annoyed by Mr Wilders. I was just pointing out to him the normal ways around here. I said that this tone might be common in his group but not in my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u27	Let's not make it all so personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u28	But other than that, I'm not irritated at all. That IO-AOW measure is indeed possible in 2022. But we also write in the letter exactly what the problems are with that. For example, it runs counter to phasing out the IO-AOW from 2023. I would also like to mention the enormous sums involved. You're gonna have to make choices about that, too. We do not therefore consider that to be wise to analyse it in peace. That's what we write in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u29	Then we'll go to Mrs. Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u30	Let me be very clear: as far as we are concerned, it is unthinkable and unacceptable that the outcome of this evening's debate is that nothing happens this whole year for people who cannot pay the bills now. If so, and if this cabinet insists that nothing can do, want nothing, and in the story that they can't do it, then we think they should make room for someone else who can. Because that cannot and must not be the outcome. Anyone who knows anything about it, it says: the CPB, the Nibud. But even if you just talk to people on the street, people just don't know where to look. Meanwhile, the economy is doing very well and huge profits are being made. Anything can be done. Once again, it can't be that tonight's outcome is that nothing happens at all. I also find it unacceptable for another reason. There are a lot of things that can be done. The banks were saved within a day. Its own risk was frozen within a week. When Corona played, billions were immediately transferred to business. It's all possible. Just yesterday, yesterday, it was decided here to spend more than EUR 1 billion on additional weapons, in a two-hour debate. We can do all that, and we can do all that quickly. So then it can't be that the outcome is that there can't be anything at all to ensure that people's costs go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u31	But those are, of course, apples and pears. Of course, buying a few extra F-35s doesn't require anything from the implementation organisations. That's a phone call to America and an agreement from the Chamber, and then you buy a couple of extra planes. You're talking about complex implementation processes here. Mrs Marijnissen is herself the representative of the party who has rightly drawn attention here to the serious problems arising from the childcare allowance scandal. And if we have learned one thing from that, it is how fragile the implementation is if we do not take into account what is noticed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u32	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u33	I'll finish my answer. Then Mrs. Marijnissen may get grim, but I'm telling her that I think that's unwise. The cabinet has analysed the various proposals made by the Chamber: how would they work out, especially as regards the risks involved in implementation? We put that right on paper. We can then disagree on that and we can go through it in detail; I am all fine with that. But that's what we did. You can see today that there is an opening at the municipalities. They say we might be able to do something. We sent you that letter today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u34	I really think it's over the shame that the Prime Minister thinks he should bring in the childcare allowance scandal as an ID for the idea that there could be nothing at all to ensure that people's costs are reduced. That child support scandal caused this cabinet itself. This scandal itself has been swept under the carpet for a very long time. The Cabinet is guilty that people are still in the shit and that there is still no solution. The fact that this cabinet now wants to set up this group of affected families against the rest of the Netherlands who cannot pay the bill, as if it could not do anything for those people, is something I find truly unheard of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u35	I'm not doing that at all. If I did, Mrs Marijnissen would be right. I would just like to point out that we have had a number of debates here in the Chamber over the last few years on the importance of taking into account the issues raised by public implementation organisations. If, as a political question, we are to continue to stack up on implementation, we should not be surprised if problems arise at some point in the implementation process. That's exactly what we're analyzing in the letter. I also think we have to face that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u36	The problems in the implementation of the childcare allowance scandal had a very different background, and so does the Prime Minister. So I would really appreciate it if he didn't drag that in tonight and didn't use it as an ID. But then something else. The Prime Minister says it cannot be because of the implementation organisations. Of course, that's bullshit. We've been making all kinds of proposals here for a very long time. The cabinet itself is also doing things that could have been done at another time. It is the wretched reality that an additional EUR 3 billion is currently entering the state treasury because of higher VAT revenues, because people simply have to pay more for the messages because prices go through the roof. That 3 billion extra is just gonna come in. Then it's impossible for you to bet at least that $3 billion to do something to relieve the burden on people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u37	The discussion isn't about coverage right now, is it? The discussion is about feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u38	The conclusion of this cabinet is, for whatever reason, that nothing can actually be done because of its feasibility. 'Cause that's what I hear the Prime Minister actually say. He says: we fail in this; there is money and we want it, but we just can't. Is that what the Prime Minister says? So are we here looking at an unpowerful government, which has absolutely no regard for the needs of society and actually says to society: drop in; on 1 January next year we might come back to you? Is that the outcome of this evening as far as the Prime Minister is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u39	No, that's a government that gives €800 to people with the lowest incomes and who reduced the energy tax by €400 per household on 1 January. We're talking here about what might be extra needed. If you look at the analyses...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u40	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u41	Do you want to hear the answer? If you look at the analyses of the Central Planning Bureau, you will see that they also say: do it multiannually; see what is needed next year and how it will work in next year. I have already reported to you this afternoon, and a letter has been sent that there is a bit more hope in the implementation: in the municipalities. There is now the new understanding that something might be possible, but otherwise it is indeed very limited; that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u42	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen. Then we go to Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u43	Very limited? It's just zero! It's nothing! You have thrown a bucket of paper over the fence towards us, giving you all of all! It is not possible to do that. But you come up with nothing, with zero. You don't have one idea, not one proposal for what can be done now. It's not very limited; it's nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u44	But how can you say that? We are doing 6.5 billion, a very large part of which, in fact, almost everything, lands in this year. Then where can Mrs Marijnissen get us to do nothing? Towards Mr. Wilders, I say, in all reasonableness, we have tried to analyse all the proposals made by the Chamber, by the coalition and the opposition. This is our conclusion. With regard to the municipalities, we sent a supplementary letter this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u45	Then we go to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks, and there are other colleagues who would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u46	I think it's really shameless, really shameless! How you are trying to lecture colleagues here. This Prime Minister has one task: to keep this country safe, safe from threats from outside, but also safe from within. We are talking about 2.5 million families who cannot make ends meet this year, despite everything the cabinet has done; despite that. Then it's our job to make sure those people get what they need. I myself am the father of three children and I am thinking of the contribution we will have to pay to the football association in August. That is not a problem for me, but for all those families who are about to see the bill of a few hundred euros, it is. The difference between whether or not we can get something done today is the difference between whether or not children can play football next year. The ease with which this is spoken... "It cannot" is too easy. I went through the whole list. I've seen all those tables. All you've done is look at the proposals of the Chamber. What are your own extra proposals? What proposals have you made to see if it's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u47	On the basis of this analysis, we have come to the conclusion that it would be much better to reach the decision-making process for 2023 in August, as our advisers also say, with an approach that takes account of the purchasing power picture of the moment. Then we will see if we can make sure that there are more structural possibilities by 2022 but in any case by 2023, without removing the problems. It will always be a three-way system. We're all gonna be poor. We will expect employers to increase wages further. The government will have to do more to make sure that we mitigate the problems. That is also what we describe in the letter. These are also the discussions we are having with social partners. We gave an analysis of this in this letter. Once again, there is one point that has been clarified this afternoon. But when it comes to the implementation organisations, it is as it is for the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u48	Don't bluff. Don't. I think that's very unwise. We have a history with that. You're bluffing about that the CPB would say you shouldn't take any extra action right now. That's bullshit. The CPB says that the consequences that exist today are not only due to rising energy prices, but also to structural wrong policies. It says that something needs to be done structuralally to help people with the lowest incomes and middle incomes. That is something other than that it would say that we should not intervene now. You simply repeat your answers, which you also give to colleagues all the time. They're just the same answers. I asked you a very specific question. I'm gonna stand here until I get an answer to that question. What proposals did the cabinet itself come up with? You have only responded to our proposals and said what cannot be done. What else did you come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u49	On the basis of these proposals, we have come to the conclusion that it is unwise to entrust implementation with additional matters that will be paid out in 2022...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u50	What did you come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u51	Here's my answer. It is wiser to look for a balanced purchasing power picture in August, even before 2023. Again, on one specific point, it appears that there is more possibility for municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u52	You didn't come up with anything. Nothing! That's so painful. You're hiding behind the execution. You're hiding behind the supplemental scandal by saying there's nothing left. I hear Mr Baudet saying that I have to talk through the chairman. It's so nice to have you here, Mr. Baudet. You're hiding behind that. That's total bullshit. You didn't do anything. This Prime Minister has not sought solutions to give people extra money this year. That's not to make sure they can have a second vacation, but to make sure they can do the shopping or pay the sports fees. That's painful. What I see here is one big chunk of political unwillingness. I blame you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u53	Thank you. I'll take a look at the Prime Minister. I don't think there's gonna be a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u54	I just responded. It's not political will. I gave the analysis, but Mr Klaver and I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u55	There is 500 fte that is deployed to handle the box 3 affair. That means we have a lot of FTEs at the IRS. We are going to do our best to give back tens of thousands of euros to these people. There's 500 FTE available for that. Has this Prime Minister considered whether it is possible for the Tax Administration to use some of these FTEs for people who really need it and can't make ends meet now? Did the Prime Minister take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u56	It's not about the 500 people at the Tax Office, where 30,000 people work, at the UWV, where 18,000 to 19,000 people work, or other large executive organizations. The point is that many of these proposals later lead to recovery and complexity in implementation. We have all described this in detail in the letter. I will not repeat the scandal of a few years ago, because I understand perfectly well that that can be misinterpreted. But I think we have come to the conclusion in a general sense that it is wise to look a little bit at what can or cannot be done in the end. Look at the Central Planning Office. They say that half a million households have payment problems and that in a dark scenario it can reach 1.2 million. That doesn't happen overnight. The Central Planning Bureau analyses that many people have energy contracts and that they do not yet pay that higher price in the short term. Therefore, it may be wiser to take sound structural measures that people feel as of January 2023, rather than to take measures that are effective a few months earlier but that pose major risks for implementation. Those risks can indeed skip to other routes, of course. The researchers of the Centraal Planbureau also advise to find structural solutions to increase the shock resistance of vulnerable households. How we intend to deal with this, we all describe it in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u57	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u58	It does matter if you've done everything. You say, "We've seen what we can do, and there's nothing we can do." In the letter that you wrote, you say that if we did something through the healthcare payments, there would be additional people who would object and call the Tax Phone because they have questions. That's a capacity problem in terms of people. And I'm asking you a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u59	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u60	Finally, Mr President, I would like to reply. Has this Prime Minister considered whether it would be helpful to use that capacity to implement the proposals that have been made here? Did he watch that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u61	No. I also do not think it is wise to employ people who are working on something that has to be resolved, and the deployment of those 500 people is not going to solve the problem. But I would point out to Mr Klaver that a letter was sent this afternoon, again, and I would like to say once again that the municipalities say: the €500 extra, on top of the €800 energy grant, would be feasible. As a cabinet, we want to take a serious look at this with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u62	Finally, and then I finish. I understand I have to finish. Mr Wilders asked: what do you say to the people in the Netherlands who cannot live now? What you should say is, I've done everything in my power to help you. This Prime Minister is now saying, here: I did not; I did not see whether we could free up capacity and whether we could move people from one side to the other to make sure that the boys and girls who want to play football could just be at the start of the competition in September, and that they could just take their sandwiches to school. You deliberately chose not to do everything in your power to make that possible. And I blame you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u63	That's not true. We have tried to make a thorough analysis of all the proposals that lie ahead. We, the Chamber and the Cabinet, do a lot, with the 6.5 billion. In August, we will have to look at how we can also deal with this enormous crisis in a more structural way from 2023 onwards. And since this afternoon, we know that there is potential for another option for 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u64	Sometimes you feel like you're in a repeat of scenes. In January we were referred to the spring decision-making and in March we were also referred to the spring decision-making. That was true of all the spokesmen in this area. And now I think the Association of Dutch Municipalities has had a turbulent discussion with Minister Schouten this morning to fight poverty, and they are being told a sausage: in August we look further. Does the Prime Minister understand that if you are made a promise every time because you want to do something for the people who are going to be in poverty and can't make it anymore, then don't say "wait until August" or "wait until next year," but do you want to be certain about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u65	I think we should talk tonight about whether that signal from the VNG this morning was different from the signal we had received so far, but that actually came in yesterday, which means that you are deciding now, or more integral in August. I think we should lay an egg on that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u66	Then we dive back into technology, because municipalities, the Nibud and the Central Planning Bureau have indicated at the previous debate, when we started,: listen, 1.2 million households are in trouble. If I hear both the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for finance say quite technically that they do not think it is justified because it is difficult in terms of implementation to arrange it, then I find it difficult. I know that when people have to go up the stove in September or early October, they have to choose whether to turn it on or not, and that these same municipalities are then faced with a lot of people who have to knock on the door of debt relief, knock on the door of the municipality for extra assistance, knock on the door of the food bank, can no longer pay their bills and end up in deep misery, perhaps for years. My question is therefore genuine: does the cabinet really see what our concerns are here when the cabinet just says it doesn't think it's justified because of a technical implementation problem? That is not Hague chops, but they are genuine concerns because I think the need for so many families has never been so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u67	As for yesterday's message from the VNG: the cabinet is of course grateful to the municipalities. They say, "Make sure you meet a number of conditions and try to do it like this. Since the evaluation of the applications of the current group is still ongoing, rule that it may also run into a section 2023." That's one thing they say. They cannot guarantee that they will be able to make it all pay this year, but it is likely that a lot will succeed. They say that it is also important that the target group itself does not change. That's what the municipalities say. I think that's an important signal from the municipalities. The cabinet wrote in a letter this afternoon that it might be wise to weigh this in full in August. But I also think it is very real to do so tonight, because Chamber and Cabinet do this together. If there is a desire in the Chamber to see if this could be done sooner, that is of course something we should talk about tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u68	Here's exactly my problem. Every time I ask what this means to people, I hear "target group," "data" and "money doesn't grow on trees." I hear these bald lyrics every time. Not only do I hear that here in this room, but I also heard that at the press conference last Friday and today at RTL Z. I sincerely wonder whether the cabinet still has an eye for the real problems of real people, who will soon be in the cold and in the cold and who will have to call on the same municipalities to eat at all. The costs involved, both social and financial, cannot be borne, but the cabinet says: we have to take a look, because it is technically complicated. When the companies were in trouble during the corona crisis, it wasn't complicated. That's how it was arranged back then. When excise duties had to be frozen because cars had to drive, it was not complicated either. Then it could be arranged like this. I would like to make a final appeal to the cabinet: do not close your eyes to these problems; step over the difficulties and make it possible. But you do today, because if you wait until August or next year, it's simply too late for too many people. Then they're already in trouble, in debt and in the cold. Then there can be no more payment at the ALDI or then the football fee can no longer be paid. That's the real scenario we're running into. The cabinet can change that today. We have votes on Thursday, so we have two days left. In it you can arrange almost anything you want, as long as you see it and if you mean it sincerely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u69	I tried to give Mrs Kuik an opening a number of times by saying that there has been a proposal from the VNG since yesterday. By way of derogation from what they said earlier and from what we wrote in the letter on Friday, they say that they can still make it possible to give an extra €500 to the group that gets €800. But the VNG does say: "We can't guarantee that everyone gets that €500 this year. That will also run in a bit next year, so you will have to make a legislative change, so that it can go through something in 2023." I don't think that's a problem. And they say, "Don't change the target group." You're talking about a million people, I say, out of my mind, who get an extra $500. The downside is of course that you have a cutoff point at 120%. Nothing else happens up there, so all of that has to be weighed in August, when we talk about the broader income and purchasing power picture. I'm noticing that now. The cabinet says in the letter: it seems to us wise to weigh that in August. I have already said three times this evening: if the Chamber considers it desirable to take a decision on this tonight, then we are fully open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u70	What the Prime Minister is doing here is giving me a lecture. I know what technique is behind it. But €500 for 1 million doesn't go against the €500 we had invented for 4.5 million people. In addition, things are going to be fashionable, because these people are now getting into trouble. Secondly, we said: arrange it now and not only in August, because then you are too late in execution. I want the cabinet to say tonight: you're right; we're gonna decide it now; we're gonna sit down with the municipalities tomorrow and we're gonna come to an arrangement. If our proposal was not good enough, then you should have put an alternative on the table and that did not happen. The cabinet is moving it forward again, and we can't, because it's gonna get cold. You have to act now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u71	The problem is that in the implementation it is not possible for the group outside those 1 million to do things this year. That's our conclusion. But for the one million, it could be. That's something we can talk about tonight, isn't it? You might be able to decide on that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u72	I don't know if the Cabinet realizes what signal is being sent here. Many people are following this debate because they hope that the cabinet can do something for them. I am not talking about the 6.5 billion, because that is not what this debate is about. I already did. We see that the problems are so great that large groups of citizens cannot survive. What I really find the wrong signal is that there are all sorts of implementation problems when it comes to ordinary Dutch people. But if KLM needs $3.5 billion, we'll take care of it. That's no problem at all. The Minister has done his best nine times in the Chamber, for large companies, with regard to the dividend tax, which totals up to 60 billion. Citizens look at this and say: they've staged a play! What the hell did that come out of? Nothing's possible! Can the Prime Minister explain that, when it comes to ordinary people, nothing can be done because it cannot be carried out? Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u73	No, that is why at the moment 6.5 billion is being spent to support people with a very normal salary or with a benefit, so people with a very limited income because they are totally dependent on that benefit this year. What we described this afternoon in the letter to the Chamber is that there is another plus. In doing so, I wonder whether it might be wise to bring forward the decision-making process on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u74	That 6.5 billion, that was before we started talking about what was possible during the spring note. This cabinet, Minister Kaag, Prime Minister Rutte, visited sixteen political groups. They wanted to pick up something from a menu to see what we can do for the people who are vulnerable, for the people who need it. But then when we look at that menu, that sign is just empty. There's nothing to eat! There's nothing! He has two reasons: it cannot be done and there is no money. Then why did we put on that show? What kind of proposal did the Prime Minister pick up that's going to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u75	That round was about the spring note. That spring note has been published and we have talked about it with each other. It was also about what is needed, also towards autumn. We are now discussing a number of acute purchasing power issues. That wasn't what the round was on a few months ago. Mr. Azarkan knows that, too. We are talking about what is or is not possible and necessary in the short term? Our view until this afternoon was next. There can really be very little in terms of implementation and it is also better to do so in full in August. But very specific for that target group of the €800 there might be something possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u76	Then I suggest that we do the following debate: the Prime Minister sends a letter to the Chamber and says 'nothing can happen'. One sentence! So you can think of a lot of things, and I can figure things out for you, but there can't be anything! So you ask the implementation organizations first: what can be done? The answer is nothing. Then you don't have to waste time with each other either. Then you don't have to raise hope with people who are having a hard time. Why the upside-down world? Why organize that extra disappointment for the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u77	Mr Azarkan does not want to talk about what we are doing this year. He says, "There is, and from now on we have to look further." That makes sense in itself, but with that we have reduced the energy tax by €400 per household and the fact that we have allocated €800 to people with a vulnerable income position, plus all the other things I mentioned earlier, off the table. I think it would be fair to keep that on the table and then to establish that it is wise to look at what is more structuralally necessary for lower and middle incomes from 2023 onwards. There is therefore an opening to do something for the group that gets €800.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u78	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u79	The Chamber, through the largest coalition party, has asked for a balanced and positive purchasing power development. Yeah, that was different circumstances. But if it comes out now that, except for the 6.5 billion already promised, nothing can happen, which will cause 1.2 million families to get into trouble and children will have to do homework, just like in winter, by candlelight and with a blanket... we simply cannot do that! I do not think it is the answer to the question that has been asked. I don't think it's the stuff people really need. I'm really disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u80	I've already responded to that. If you look at the situation of people with a problem about making the necessary payments, you will see that it does not happen overnight. Most people in the country have an energy contract. This means that they will not pay that higher price in the short term. This also gives us some room to look at how we can achieve a balanced picture from 2023 onwards, in addition to the 6.5 billion package. But my own party has already said of that balanced and positive purchasing power image: that was then and that has, of course, changed since Ukraine. That has now gone up in smoke with Putin's raid in Ukraine. What we need to look at now is what we can do to mitigate the effects of that war in terms of price increases, including energy. I think that tonight we have to see if it would be possible to reach an agreement on an addition to the €800 along the lines provided by the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u81	I think Mrs Kuiken just outlined it nicely: from January to March, from March to May, to June and now we are in July; although the CPB and the Nibud have clearly indicated that a million households are in trouble. This policy of moving forward is problematic, especially since, in the previous debate in the Chamber, we delivered a lot of ideas to the cabinet. In fact, the letter only indicates what cannot be done. But I expect my government to look not only at what is possible but also at how we may have it at the moment when the Chamber delivers so many ideas. How are we going to ensure that these ideas can be implemented? I'm just reading that I can't. But when I think about it, I could look at it like this: if you did it like that, maybe you could. Why isn't that done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u82	We have tried in the letter and also in the annex to explain exactly what risks there are. This is a genuine attempt to comment on and support our view of what can and cannot be done this year and how to proceed to 2023. That's a genuine attempt. We can look into this in more detail; a few questions have already been asked about the IO-AOW. But that's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u83	That's not an answer to my question. I'm asking why there wasn't an active thought. That's what you expect from your government when so many people are in trouble. Then you expect a more active role to be played and not only critical of the plans but also actively thought about how they are feasible. You're saying I'm bringing in child care allowances. However, the large recoveries will raise questions, and this puts additional pressure on the organisation. Is it necessary for us to do the recovery? Or, because of the situation we are in, can we say: yes, we may have to let that go before this year, because we want to ensure that those 4.7 million people are helped. This is one way to do that. Why isn't that an active consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u84	We do not think that is wise. Then you let go of all the principles under the laws we have. We have, within the limits of the legislation as it is, looked at what is wise to do and what you can ask of our public implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u85	Finally. There will be no answer to the question of why there is no active thought. That is the last question I would like to put to the Prime Minister. When I read this, when I look at the attitude of the Chamber, which has put forward so much in the previous debate, I wonder why there has been no more active thought and no options have been given as to how certain things could have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u86	We have tried to identify the advantages and disadvantages of the various ideas and to outline what is needed in August. Anyway, whatever you do, although you could do some of those things, they will not be paid until much later this year. That goes for all these things. Even though you would step over the objections of the execution, that benefit will not take place until later this year and probably only partly in 2023. If you know how much misery you bring about the implementation, isn't it better to ensure that you finally look more comprehensively at 2023 in the August decision-making process?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u87	Finally. For a lot of people, these two or three months are a world of difference. If you do not recognise this here, if you do not see that people need it in the winter months, if energy prices and gas prices are only going to rise, then I think we have a difference of opinion. I think at the moment those choices can make a difference there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u88	No, we don't have a difference of opinion on that. We only have a difference of opinion as to whether it is possible to resolve the problems of implementation in the large national public implementation organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u89	If we go back to the debate a few weeks ago, there has been a broad debate from the Chamber, opposition and coalition, given the packages that were already there from October, March and April and the appointment in the Spring Paper, expressed the wish that something could not be done this year and whether you should not do something with them before the summer instead of looking at them in August, because you might be late. The cabinet has looked at this for weeks and comes to the conclusion that it is considered mostly irresponsible because of the objections to implementing organisations and municipalities. The Prime Minister has just referred a number of times to the new signal given by the UNG. Mrs Kuik spoke just now about consultation that took place this morning. A new letter has come from the cabinet, but a letter has also been sent from the VNG itself just before this debate. When I read the cabinet letter, it says: we were already planning to look in August; thank you, municipalities, that you are still willing to do more, but we are going to look at it in August. Then I would like to return to the debate we had a few weeks ago. The Prime Minister offers a little more opening up here in the debate than in the letter we received, but the VNG is very explicit in its letter that came just before this debate, namely that it wants to make an effort to achieve it by 2022 and not in an August decision-making process and possibly by 2023. Isn't Mrs. Kuik here just right that you shouldn't wait until August, but that you should sit down with the VNG for the next few days? So here too, if you come to the conclusion with the VNG in August that she can do a little extra, you may still end up in 2023. Then why does the cabinet choose in a letter to discuss it with the VNG in August, when the VNG clearly states that it wants to settle it before 2022? I would like to add my voice to Mrs Kuik's question: why not get to work on this in the next few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u90	My reaction to this is: that is possible. I also feel that there is a strong demand for this in the Chamber. Then I think we should do that together. This means that you are looking at an increase for the existing target group. There's always a risk of something going through in 2023. So you do need a law amendment to do that a bit... You never know for sure that not everyone can get that already in 2022, even if you decide it now. So I think you should do the law amendment. I admit that we are working with the VNG to work out the increase in the energy surcharge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u91	And on what time? The letter doesn't say until August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u92	Let us now move on to that decision. Then tonight we decide we're gonna do that. I've tried hitting it about ten times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u93	I thought I heard a move in the air just now. I'm going to go back to what Mrs. Kuik said and what Mr. Heerma said. I think all you can say to people is that we can't help everyone if you do your very best for the most vulnerable. Now the VNG says, "Don't wait, we can do something." After the frustrating letter I think it's something I didn't think of anymore. The VNG says now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u94	The VNG now says: we would like... Er...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u95	Shh, shh, shh, shh! Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u96	The VNG says now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u97	Shh!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u98	... today in that letter Mr Klaver has had, I have had...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u99	Shh!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u100	...that she wants to have a conversation. And now the Prime Minister says, "Yes, I do want to talk now." But then I really think it is best that today's outcome is that the light goes green. We want to increase that amount. No one thinks that is the ideal solution, but it is for hundreds of thousands of people to get extra support. I ask the Cabinet to undertake today not only to enter into conversation, but also to do so. This gives the VNG the green light. Well, at least that seems like a step to me. It's far from perfect, but it's a step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u101	Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u102	Then I have two follow-up questions. The first is about the Prime Minister saying: yes, but they say that maybe not everything can be done by 2022 and that it can have a bit of overflow. I would like to hear what we can do as politicians and public authorities in that discussion of the UNG to ensure that it happens as much as possible in 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u103	I have no objection to that. I just think it would be wise, where it is ultimately the case that this benefit should take place under the law by 31 December this year, to create the possibility that it will go through something if it does not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u104	I understand the Prime Minister says he wants some kind of valve for where it doesn't work for municipalities. By the way, it's nice that there could be something in municipalities. That was not the case until this morning. My second question is whether they really want to pay explicit attention to the special assistance. Minister Schouten said it would be available to students. There is a discussion about whether students who really get into trouble should be able to claim that, so that they don't have to lend themselves to DUO first. I would ask that this particular point of special assistance be included in these talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u105	I'm gonna have to get a heads-up on that. I think this is true, but I'd like to double-check it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u106	This morning, a minister from Rotterdam opened our group meeting. He works in a church that is also an issue point for the food bank. He says the lines are getting longer and we're worried. That is part of the concern expressed here in the Chamber and which I share. The Prime Minister says at least we can do something this year. I'm happy about that, because something's better than nothing. I would indeed say: get on with it. The letter from the UNG also calls for something that also counts in the long term, namely structural measures. They are asking for something that goes beyond the 2022 date limit. The cabinet will say: we will take that with us in the August decision-making process. When a politician says "we'll take that with us," it's never very reassuring. I'm worried about the long term. We are talking about wages, benefits, energy prices, gas availability and, therefore, the price that people have to pay, and inflation. The latter counts not only this year, but will also press heavily next year. What does the Cabinet take? If the UNG asks for structural measures, what is the long-term commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u107	At least tonight you'd decide to accept the offer from the VNG. But, again, that is within that existing target group. You want to scorch as much as possible that it will happen this year, but there is a small risk that it will also be able to go through something in 2023. The second is that you have to observe that this has a break-down point at 120% of the social minimum. After that, nothing happens anymore. I therefore believe that the cabinet is obliged to look more balancedly at what is needed in August, including for people above the 120% social minimum. But that is something for the August decision-making. I think the VNG is looking at it the same way and that it says: what can you do more structuralally as a cabinet? In addition, I see really three responsible parties here. I fear that, because of Putin's terrible invasion of Ukraine as a society, we are all faced with a degree of impoverishment, which cannot be avoided. Then the question is how to dampen it as much as possible. That's what I think you do along two lines. One line is what the cabinet is doing, with the 6.5 billion package, but also with this extra step and what we are doing in August. The second is: what can companies do to ensure that wages continue to rise? These talks are of course also taking place, all the more so because there is increasing evidence that the risks of wage price spirals do not occur in the short term. But that is a real debate which must of course also be held with the social partners. What we are talking about tonight is, of course, the second area: the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u108	We also see the lack of capacity of the government in the implementation. We see that it is very difficult to get to work this year with what was indeed a broad shared wish in the Chamber. In the letter from the cabinet, we see that this is limited. So we also see our own inability in legislation and in implementation. There's a line in there somewhere. That which we are already doing, namely giving €800 to families who can use it very hard, only works in some cities with 50% of those families. So that's also very painful. We got the money. We would very much like to put it there where it is very badly needed. And we can't. By us, I mean the joint government. So I would indeed like to stress the urgency of the fact that it is not just what we can do in legislation and regulation. It also affects the implementation by municipalities, including food banks, also voluntary organisations, also energy suppliers and also employers. What is the government going to do where inflation is a longer-term problem, where energy prices are at risk of staying at a high level and thus pressing heavily on the family wallet, to underline that joint responsibility and to reach the people we are currently so difficult to reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u109	I say quite honestly: reaching the target group of that €800 is, of course, something that the municipalities are committed to. They're the best ones to do that. They are capable of doing so. They know their own people. It is, of course, very complicated for us here to do so. We can call on people to make use of the possibilities. My experience is that municipalities eventually find the roads as well. Take, for example, special assistance. Municipalities also know how to approach and interest those who do not make use of them, because it is simply extremely important that people realize that these facilities exist. In addition, Mr Segers mentions a number of other elements that we also have to look at towards Prinsjesdag. I would like to say one more thing about the implementation. I do not think the problem is implementation. The problem is us. The problem is complex legislation. That is also what the Ombudsman says. It says, "If, as a national policy, you think you can solve all these problems with customization, with an individual approach, I'm telling you, you can't. What is needed is good legislation, which does not require customisation every time. That drives the implementation crazy." I think that is really a lesson that we must learn from all the issues that we have seen passing through here. We have also had this debate in the annual accounts. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u110	Finally, Madam President. I very much agree with the Prime Minister on the latter. Our surcharges and our tax system are hopelessly complicated. But that's still so far away. That's not gonna get people through the winter right now. So, yeah, we have to work on that. We've got to get to work on that. At the same time, we need to do what we can now. So I'd say it's about what we can do now. If that is an extra €500, if the municipalities say "it is not our first preference, but we want to work with it," I say: something is better than nothing. But then my compelling appeal would be to see what can be done in terms of wages and energy suppliers to prevent people who still think that they might just be singing it, getting a huge post-tax and stuck in the winter, and that we can still do too little. So please let's do what we can already do with others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u111	I was just witnessing the ping-pong between coalition and prime minister in the margin about something that made you both happy. But if I look at what I see within an hour, the Prime Minister seems to have swam completely away from the total opposition. I'm talking left, right and everything in between. Maybe you can reflect on why. Because we're talking a lot about trust crises in the country, about people who have dropped out and no more trust. What is your reaction to the total incomprehension of the opposition, which I think is justified? I think that has 100% to do with raising expectations. You've been on tour of our Rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u112	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u113	The Prime Minister has come to see Mrs Kaag. He asked us questions: "What are your wishes? Is it affordable? Is it legally enforceable?" We haven't been told for a moment: watch the performance, because that's where he sits in front of us. Then there will be a letter that says: everything is stuck on the execution. When did the Prime Minister start thinking about whether there would be any bottlenecks in implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u114	It's been a while, but that's not what the conversation was about. The round of talks was about the budget of 2023 and what wishes are those that live widely in the Chamber with political groups present here. We are now discussing a number of specific issues relating to purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u115	That's just not true. This is just not true. We have been asked to make financial proposals. That started a long time ago for me. You came to our house on 11 May; Mrs Nanninga from the Upper Chamber was also there. We thought we were having a very good conversation about the wishes we have as JA21 for the spring note. That was about purchasing power, money, VAT and excise duties. We've put everything down. Neither one of you has said for a moment: "Beware, Eerdmans, because it is also about execution. Pay attention to what you're asking me." That just comes out of the hat like a rabbit. So I fully understand the discontent and frustration on this side. No, Mr. Chairman, I'd like an answer to that. When did you start thinking? Either it happened months ago and you just kept it from me, or you didn't start thinking until after the first period of treatment of this Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u116	That round was about how we deal with the budget for 2023. How do we get support here in the Chamber and subsequently in the Senate? We talked about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u117	This is evidently not true. I kept the notes, I hope you did too. That's definitely not true. We have talked about this Spring note and the repairs for 2022. That's what we were gonna talk about. You are now trying to get away from the problem that there is really no understanding of the cabinet's attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u118	Of course, when you talk about 2023, you never look at 2022. But we are also talking about an acute issue about further purchasing power repair, aren't we? Didn't we have the whole discussion about the Spring Note in the debate a few weeks ago? We have tried to take the wishes of the Chamber into account as much as possible. For example, look what we did with the agreement on linking the AOW to the minimum wage. That was a wish that lived wide. That's what we've done. We have thus taken on board at all the increase in the AOW benefit and many other ideas that lived there in political groups. Surely all this is reflected in the Spring Paper, which is also reflected in the 2023 budget? We are now talking about what is further needed for specific purchasing power repair, perhaps this year. But that's not what the conversation was about, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u119	Then we've been in two totally different halls. For me, it is truly astonishing that I say quite honestly that your thought was that we were thinking about 2023 and beyond. It was just about this year's repair. You said we could talk about it in the autumn. Then we said, no, we need to talk about now, as soon as possible. We have talked about reducing VAT and reducing excise duties. Those are all the themes we discussed in the Zandtkamer. But you're talking about the AOW now. Don't mention that, because that's exactly the cigar from your own box that the elderly are still talking about today. That is not a repair, it is just an artificial cigar from their own box for which they have to pay. We'll come back to that later in the evening. Just one more question. My first question was: when did you start thinking about the issue of implementation? You say that was months ago. But you never brought that up. It is quite remarkable that we only read this in the letter of July 1st, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u120	Mrs Kaag and I have made a round round of groups to collect your ideas, of course for 2023 and of course for the Spring note et cetera. In my view, we now need to discuss what is urgently needed, in the short term, to enable some further purchasing power repairs in 2022. This meets a number of implementation issues; yes, that is correct. Those ideas that we have collected, also from Mr Eerdmans, he also sees in part in the spring note. A lot of those ideas have come back. Not everything; that's right, and not exactly how he wants it, or the way others wanted it. That's absolutely true. We didn't agree on everything, but of course it's not like we didn't do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u121	The compensation will soon be available to people at welfare level or just above that level. As always, middle incomes and higher incomes are already heavily compensated by less petrol and lower VAT on energy. But it's exactly the group that's in between. It's that baggage worker at Schiphol, who doesn't even make full weeks, who deserves the minimum wage. 84% of the minimum wage is the point from where you don't get it. That baggage worker has nothing to do with a lower excise duty on petrol, because of his income he can't drive a car. He doesn't need the €800 and €1,300 that his neighbor gets in the assistance, but he goes to work every morning at six o'clock. It is the group that is constantly completely abandoned, the people whose government says: they get 1.8% increase in the minimum wage. Yeah, that's right, but their purchasing power is dropping by almost 10%. And for that group, the Central Planning Agency shows that they're completely sinking through the ice. So those are single people with 85% to 100% of the minimum wage, families with 130% of the minimum wage, someone just above them. It's about someone who has a sick partner, or deserves the husband, and the woman works another day a week, for example; it's about that kind of relationship. We know from those groups that at the end of the year they do not have the choice between less food and lower the heating; they both have to do and then they are still short. What do we, as a Dutch society, have to offer for this group, which is at risk of falling below the minimum standard of living at the end of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u122	Firstly, Mr Omtzigt is right that this afternoon's letter touches the group that goes up to 120% of the social minimum. So up there, that stops. That means that you have to look at the groups up there, all of which are also affected by the fact that they run up to the middle groups, but also at the group that Mr Omtzigt calls, which is actually in between. This is something we have partly identified with the measures we have already taken. Mr Omtzigt says that these people have very often not used them. I think that's a little too black and white, but I understand what he's saying. These people do not all benefit; that is true. So we will have to re-map that in the context of the August decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u123	It is this group that we have constantly appointed here and which also emerges from the CPB figures. We need those figures, because up until now we thought there were only 600,000 low-income households, but when the CPB started calculating, it turned out to be 1.2 million in the black scenario. Energy prices are higher than in the black scenario. This applies to both gas and electricity and petrol. Because food inflation is at 9%, it may well be above the black scenario. If it continues at this rate, we can have a cumulative 25% increase in three years. So we could come out blacker than we thought. We don't have anything for this group. We mentioned them in the Spring Paper, which we mentioned in March and which we mentioned earlier. I had one hope, namely the energy surcharge. I also made sure today that we could not vote on that law so that we could change something about it. And see, it's being used. But the painful thing is that the energy surcharge was already invented in December and that we did not get that law until many months later. When a Chamber gets a law on "who do you want to be favored by this law?', We in the Chamber can normally say that we do not think that the limit of 120% is the right limit, that we want to make it 130% or 140% and that we are covering it elsewhere. But the government has waited so long that we cannot even change the target group into a law that we have not yet voted on. This means that we, as a parliament, cannot carry out our legislative task here. At what point did we have the opportunity to do something for this group this spring? 'Cause it was too early, too early, and now it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u124	This has, of course, also been a logical problem for municipalities, which say that it must have a range that they can also see from what municipal social services normally have under control. Mr Omtzig's other point concerns people at the minimum wage level. On page 9 of the letter, it says that we are taking up this commitment to Mr Omtzigt to identify the consequences for that group. People at the minimum wage level sometimes have an average rental house. That was also examined in a CPB study. The letter also states that we can look at all kinds of measures: taxation, surcharges, the social domain and rent. So we are going to look at that again, but Mr Omtzigt is right: it is not easy to reach that group. So that's really another search.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u125	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u126	We knew it wasn't easy. Let's not be too hard on that either. But this is the group we've constantly appointed here. It's not a small group. It depends on how big you make the target group, but it amounts to 0.5 million to 1 million households that are just above the minimum subsistence level. These are working people or people who have become disabled and have an income that is slightly above the social minimum. That's the group we're talking about. That group is grabbing off everything. The CPB says: if those people cancel all the business, so days out, their holidays, their subscriptions, everything they can, so don't go to the catering industry anymore.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1.2 million people, and probably more, because we're in the black scenario. I'm willing to recess two or three weeks later to see how we do this. Because this is going to create an unprecedented poverty problem and debt restructuring problem around December/January. These people are below the minimum of existence. What does the government have to offer? When should we have intervened? Every time we were told, too early, too early, just wait. Now it's too late. What moment did I miss? When could I have done anything for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u127	After all, there has been regular discussion here about how to ensure that the energy surcharge remains feasible for municipalities and that it also has a target range that these municipalities have in mind. Municipalities can decide to enlarge the group themselves. Municipalities may also decide to increase the amount of €800. But in the end, the agreement with the VNG was that you will have to come to a group delimitation that is somewhat manageable. That's what the municipalities are saying: if you want to add the €500, you have to start from the existing target group. Then to the point of the people with lower incomes. That is what the Central Planning Bureau has indeed investigated, the stress test on the cost of living. I just outlined that there are several options you can look at. So we will also have to look at this in August, in the context of the purchasing power picture 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u128	Finally, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u129	This stress test wasn't about August, it was about this year. We, a large part of the opposition, which was not left or right, have constantly said here: pay attention to that group of workers; they will become working poor. There's going to be a wave of poverty that doesn't match. What have we learned from this childcare allowance? If you can get those people to live on time, they won't have to deal with those debts and debt collection agencies. And then they have to do all kinds of really bad things in their household budget. If they are pushed over the edge once in those collection agencies and in those huge increases you get, we have debates here in January and February about a couple of 100,000 households, where we get our hands in the hair because we can only conclude that these people all have to go into debt restructuring. That's hugely expensive. It causes a lot of stress and psychological distress that you say to. You could have prevented that by pulling out a few extra 100 million for it. My question to the government is: at what point could we have made that decision? Because this is what we constantly asked for. The government kept saying, "Wait, wait, wait." And now it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u130	I have now replied a few times to what I think has happened with the decision on the target area of the energy surcharge. I think that Mr Omtzigt is right to raise a point, but it is also a bit black and white. Of course, it is not the case that the other measures do not reach this group. Of course it isn't. The whole package of further measures in the 6.5 billion will, of course, also have an impact on this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u131	Thank you. I actually wanted to move on to the second term, but I see that there are still a few questions. First of all, Mrs Marijnissen, SP. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u132	Sure. I am deeply disturbed by the political drama that is being staged here. The cabinet informs this Chamber: "We are firing off all your proposals. There's nothing we can do. We ourselves have zero ideas and we are not going to do anything." The Prime Minister is here to blow us: that is what it is, because it cannot be implemented. Then there is someone from the coalition: tada, there is a letter from VNG and there can be something! Then the Prime Minister says, "Well, maybe there's something we can do. Does the Prime Minister really think that this is my first question? And two. Does he understand and acknowledge that tonight is the time when we have to do something? If only because in two days the tent closes for two months and people simply can't wait until January. There is always talk about the August decision-making process. That sounds very nice for everyone who is following this debate, because that sounds close, but that obviously means that things are not going to happen until next year. What do we decide tonight to do for people this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u133	I think that was a proposal from Mr Heerma. Furthermore, how did that go tonight? In response to all the opposition spokesmen, I pointed out once or twice the difference between the national implementation and the municipalities. A letter was sent today in response to yesterday's discussion with VNG by the Minister for Poverty Policy, Pensions and Participation. I referred to this once or twice, and I also said that we think it would be wise to consider it in full in October. I have also said a number of times: you can do that before. We're open to that. Mr Heerma makes that explicit. Someone else could have done that. As far as we are concerned, of course, since this afternoon's letter, that is an option. I still think it would be better to do all this integrally in August, but can also live with it if we just decide that now. I think that's a commitment I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u134	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u135	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u136	Finally, because I would also like to go to the Minister, and possibly to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u137	I started by saying that it is unacceptable for us that this debate should end without any clear agreement on what we are going to do for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u138	But that's the deal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u139	Well, no. I'm hearing some kind of vague story. Apparently, Mr Heerma has made a proposal. I think we have all made a lot of proposals here, but the Prime Minister has shot them all one by one. Just now he has repeated again very coolly: no, nothing can be done at all, because it all gets stuck in the execution. It seems that Mr Heerma has suddenly made a proposal, but it is not concrete at all. Our point is that it is unacceptable that the debate should end tonight without anything concrete. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister once again, because he simply wants to move it forward again. Now he wants to go back and see what might happen sooner. He's been able to do that for the past two weeks, hasn't he? That was your assignment, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u140	I was once praised for communicating clearly, but I can't do it tonight. I've tried to explain it a lot. There has been a letter from the cabinet since this afternoon, following yesterday's administrative consultation with the VNG. That letter says: if you stick to the target group of the €800 and accept that you cannot guarantee that everyone will get that supplement in 2022, then it could. That's what the municipalities say. The cabinet said in the letter: you know, then you have another addition for that group, and that ends at 120%; shouldn't you weigh it integrally in August? I hinted at it tonight, and made it explicit afterwards, that the cabinet is prepared to do so. I think that's a commitment. The concrete outcome of this debate is that we agree that we will talk to the municipalities to make that €500 possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u141	We're witnessing the better amateur scene tonight. I really want to say, and now I'm quoting a once-great politician: ruler or quit. Now you're saying, if you want, we can do it. Then it seems to be a commitment to the Chamber, as if something very nice is coming about here. But nothing beautiful came into being here. If you can do this, you should just do this. Then you know you have the support of the Chamber. But this is a charade. That's what's bothering me. Having said this, now the positive. I hear here that €500 goes to the lowest incomes. We should all be happy about that. That's profit. But that was not what our proposals were about. We are talking about the middle groups, exactly the groups Mr Omtzigt mentioned: the people who are just above them, those who work for the minimum wage. I'm in favour of extra money going to the group up to 120%. But with that, the cabinet says: you can be in a benefit almost better than working at the minimum wage at the moment. I'm sorry about that. That's why we really have to, even tonight... This debate is not yet ready. You can say that there is a result, but something extra has to be done for that group, because that is where the great poverty is now emerging.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u142	Then we'll repeat ourselves. The cabinet has analyzed that we'd love to. We also radiated that in the debate a few weeks ago. But if it can't, it can't. I am not saying that in a nutshell, but a brief summary: we come to the conclusion that we cannot do this to the implementation. I also agree with Mr Klaver's analysis that this group is more limited and that it shifts even more money to a group that really needs it in itself, but that you also want to reach the people with lower incomes who work and the middle groups. But we have now sent that whole letter and sincerely tried to explain why we cannot do that to the implementation. We'll hold on to that. Since this afternoon, it is possible to give the group up to 120% social minimum that €500 extra. That's a win. But that's because the municipalities say they can handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u143	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u144	When you read the letter from the municipalities, they outline all kinds of implementation problems. They say, for example, that nothing can be done for students and that the risk lies with the Empire. These are all kinds of risks that there are among the options that we have proposed and which the Empire can implement. What the municipalities are going to do is extremely risky. And yet you say, "We're gonna do that." That's what I'm here for; that's not the point. But if you are going to implement this risky policy, why not make sure, for example, that you reach the working people in the Netherlands with such an additional supplement? 'Cause they're not gonna make it. I have the feeling that this Prime Minister doesn't realize how much the need is in the Netherlands. We didn't look at CPB estimates, we looked at scenarios. We're in the dark black scenario, and it's only gonna get worse. I'd almost like to say, please, do something! Rule or quit. If you don't want it or if you can't create the creativity or if you're all done with it, make way. But we have to do something extra for those working people. It is not about whether the coalition is satisfied or the opposition, but it is about whether people can live in this country. They're sinking through the minimum of existence. And we're not talking about three, four or five people, we're talking about more than a million people. You're gonna have to charge yourself for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u145	We tried to give an analysis of that. That's what you've been given. That's just not possible. In terms of implementation, this entails too high a risk. That's really our conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u146	A question to make it clear. We have calculated or analysed 37 proposals. None of them can. The only thing we can do is give that group of €800 500. Is that tonight's setting? If I conclude that correctly, I ask through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u147	We didn't think we could do that either, but the municipalities said that as performers: we dare to do so for that group, provided that the target group is the existing target group and you also accept that we cannot guarantee that everyone gets the €500 this year. That's why we need to change the law. Then we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u148	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u149	Not entirely, Mr President, because I did not get a clear answer. 38 proposals have been examined. At first we thought 37 of them couldn't. Luckily, one of them can. Am I saying it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u150	Yeah, I think that's about right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u151	Good. A follow-up, Mr. Chairman. This group of 130% or 140% of the social minimum is in serious trouble. The question is, is that fair? One group now gets €800 and another €500, because that group can be easily identified. Is that fair to 130% or 140%? How does the Prime Minister weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u152	I agree with Mr Azarkan in itself, but it is not possible in the implementation. So we just have to be real about that. We can keep repeating that, but then we have had all these debates on implementation for nothing. I have narrowed it too much to one dossier, but the debate on implementation has, of course, been much wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u153	Mrs Kuik and then Mrs Van der Plas, and then I will go to the other rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u154	I wasn't really looking for a political deal today, and certainly not in such a coalition setting. I was looking for solutions for people who are in serious trouble from the autumn onwards. They end up in poverty. They can't pay the bills anymore. They're gonna need debt relief. There will be domestic violence, including the misery that that brings. That's 1.2 million families. I see that, under pressure from the municipalities, the cabinet is trying to find a solution for that very low-level group. That is in itself positive. At first they said it couldn't be because it was too difficult to implement, but it turns out it could. But if it is technically possible, even though it turned out to be difficult, then I think there could be a solution for those people who are just above that low income, on that modal income. According to the CPB, they find themselves in exactly the same problems. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u155	No. I agree that there is a problem there, but that is not possible in terms of implementation. But I'm repeating myself a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u156	I think this question has just been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u157	No, it's not, Mr. Chairman. Until yesterday, the route via the municipalities was not technically possible, as we know on the basis of the tables provided by State Secretary Van Rij himself. But because the political pressure from the municipalities was apparently very high, it turned out to be technically feasible. Then my appeal is: if you can do more than you thought, if you can technically do more than you thought possible until this morning, isn't it worth looking at the group of people we had in mind with our $500? Those are the people who receive a care allowance. That's 75% of the people who describe the CPB. So that's a lot more people than the 1 million people Mr Rutte has in mind here. Is it not worth the ultimate effort to help these people too and to protect them from poverty, if there is still more to be done technically than the Prime Minister thought possible until this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u158	No. I'm really firm on that. We've analyzed that completely. Last time in the debate, before the suspension, we said that we would very much like to do so. That's what we really radiated. But it just doesn't seem possible. Nor have we put pressure on the municipalities. The municipalities have come to us and have said, on the basis of Friday's letter: listen, we have looked at it again ourselves. That's the letter they apparently sent you this afternoon. At least you will find the discussions we have had in Mrs Schouten's letter, the Minister for APP. That's the situation. So there is something possible, but the rest we really have to do in August, integral before 2023. In any case, if you could have done something already, that would have been paid by the end of the year. Now let's try to focus on 2023 and then for this more limited group to do that 500 €.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u159	Finalizing, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u160	That means there's a big risk: are you even implementing these 1 million people? As far as execution is concerned, it didn't look very bright so far. Two. It means that for the large group of people who are now out of the boat, you are not doing anything anymore, throughout the current year, while we have been asking, since January, specifically for this group: have an eye for that; that is not going well; arrange that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u161	But of course it's not...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u162	No, that's the case. We've all outlined that. It's kind of hard for me. It's not that you have to be acidic at the moment when you can settle something, but we've been telling you from January that that group is much bigger, that more needs to happen and that more is needed, and are now constantly confronted with "too late" and "unexecutable." It's hard for me to digest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u163	There's also an end to the possibilities you have. Take, for example, the idea that lives in circles of the Labour Party and other parties, along the lines of the surcharge or the target range of the surcharge, whether it was the rent or the care allowance. We've all been looking at that. We have analysed this in detail and we think it is too high a risk. That's not because we don't want it, because we radiated ourselves last time that it would be nice if it could be. I also see that you will reach a much larger group. But there's no point in promising bullshit here. We can't live up to that. When it comes to the group of €800, which will receive €500, the municipalities said after Friday's letter: we can do that. We have said of this: that is fantastic; let us then weigh that integrally in August. My commitment tonight is to do just that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u164	I have been listening to it all evening and I conclude that, after nearly 12.5 years with this Prime Minister, we have reached a point where, as the Netherlands, we are not able to give people in a crisis, perhaps a temporary crisis, which we hope to give them a lifeline. Our systems are out of order. The implementation organisations are not in order. We're having a social crisis right now. We just can't help people. I'm really sorry about that. I'm really sorry about that, in our cool little country. I actually want to know from the Prime Minister how he looks at us being a lot of people. It's only a relatively small part of the people when you see the percentage, but it's a lot of people who simply can't help, because the system is out of order in the Netherlands. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u165	Two things. In the first place, fortunately, there is a very large rescue buoy of 6.5 billion. We threw it to society. This has led to all kinds of effects. We're looking at what extra is needed now. So there is a rescue buoy of 6.5 billion. It is very significant in the European comparison. Two. The problem is not that public services are not in order. Yeah, there's got to be extra investment in that too, absolutely. That's what we're doing as a cabinet. But the problem is also that, as a national policy, we have not served the implementation organisations properly by adopting legislation that ultimately asked the implementing organisations to apply customization and to make unique considerations. That is simply impossible for this kind of mass implementation organisations, simply because we have taken too little time to make good legislation. That is the central criticism of the Ombudsman, which I totally agree with. I've come to that understanding late, as I think most people here have. If others have had that insight before, that's wonderful, but I had it from 2019 and after, with all the misery we've had on some of the big issues around the implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u166	"We've thrown out a 6.5 billion lifeboat." I have heard the Prime Minister say several times in various interviews: that is really a lot of money. As the Prime Minister said it more often, it became more and more money and it got better and better. Then I hear the Prime Minister say: it's actually the Chamber, because you've rigged up all those laws; you've pulled them all through. I have the next question. If you are the Prime Minister of this country, the leader of this country, I also said it in another debate last week: take direction, take direction, do you have to be very concerned that it is obviously not going to work to get 1 or 1.5 million people out of trouble? As leader of the country, you should just mind and not say all things like, "Sister can't, it can't, so we're just not gonna do it"? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u167	Apart from the word "leader," which I'm never such a fan of: taking direction and taking responsibility, yes. But that also includes that I am honest with Mrs Van der Plas and others about what can and cannot be done. That's part of it. If in her eyes leading means saying "what the Chamber thinks, can all," I say, unfortunately, but that is not always possible. We've done an analysis of what can and can't be done. That's one. Two. Taking responsibility also includes the fact that Sigrid Kaag, the finance minister, myself and the entire cabinet have allocated 6.5 billion for this. That's a considerable amount of money. This includes an energy tax reduction of €400. This includes a reduction in VAT on energy from 21% to 9%. That's since last Friday. This saves €140 for an average household this year. We are making substantial investments to ensure that we mitigate the consequences as much as possible. Structurally, from 2023 onwards, we need to see how we can keep the whole purchasing power picture, including for the low-income group, as well as possible. That still has to go along the line that we can't solve everything. There is also a responsibility for employers to ensure decent wage growth. Fortunately, we also see this in more and more collective agreements. I think that's decent driving. Moreover, I do not blame the Chamber for the complexity of its implementation. That is a joint responsibility. The cabinet makes the laws in most cases. They will then be amended. But then it's also a matter of how you come to something together. Too many cases have led to very complex implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u168	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u169	I don't blame the Prime Minister or the Cabinet for not working hard. I'm not gonna do that anyway. I don't expect you to be able to solve anything in the Netherlands. I understand that; everyone understands that. But "we have to be honest" or "we're at least honest" I've heard a lot in recent months. We hear that all the time. "We make very hard decisions for the farmers, but we are honest. We'll lead you to the abyss, but we'll be honest about that. We're not going to help you, but we're being honest about that." The fact is that there might soon be such a thing as 1.5 million people now simply don't know how to tie the strings. I've said that before. Then I expect, and with me the whole Chamber, at least the entire opposition, that there will be a bit more pressure, to help those people somehow. In corona time, we were able to do it. We got the Tozo and the NOW fast. Those people were helped very quickly. At that time it was all possible, for which the compliments, also on behalf of the employers and the workers. I know they were very happy about that back then. But that is not a question of not being able; it is then a question of not wanting. And certainly, you can't do everything, but I still want to call on the Prime Minister and the whole cabinet to do just everything, but anything, to help people in the Netherlands who are in trouble. So that is not so much a question; it is more of a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u170	We agree on that. The question is of course: what can you do tonight, also with a view to 2022, what can you do in August and what have we done already? And, of course, what is the responsibility of employers when it comes to wage increases?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u171	What can be done this year, I have all just heard a bit from the Chamber and from the Cabinet. Well, we know that, I think, by now. The Prime Minister has just said that we should especially look at 2023. I am actually curious about that, because it is just two months away, and we are talking about the budget and we are talking about 2023. So, in concrete terms, my question is the following. We'll be out of 6.5 billion in a minute. Then we need to think structuralally about 2023 and beyond. My question is: what thoughts are there and which way are we going?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u172	Mr Stoffer knows, as representative of the Political Reformed Party, that we will of course do so neatly in August and present it on Prince's Day, but of course the contours of it are clear. We want to try to come to a situation where you continue to take responsibility along those three tracks as government to mitigate as much as possible the consequences for the people with a small scholarship, the people who work with a small income and the middle groups. We want, of course, to try to get a good picture of all this back in August, and we also know that a lot of these arrangements are coming to an end. So that will be a very complicated discussion, but I cannot anticipate it now. Then I'm going to philosophize myself about what I think can happen, and I think it's nice to discuss that with each other on the team.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u173	I'm not naming it for nothing, because it's going pretty fast tonight. At least if I'm sitting there on behalf of a party that's been in the Chamber for 100 years, I think it's going pretty fast. And if we're not careful, we're going to get back to it in September, October and November. I think the Prime Minister likes it. He's smiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u174	No, you put it so nicely. Your party has been around for 104 years, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u175	Yeah, but we're in the Chamber for 100 years today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u176	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u177	I just wanted to get that congratulations. That was him, thank you. But I'm just looking. You can have sex with each other, with the seats that the cabinet has. So all this is still going on here, but it must also be arranged across the street. So I'm curious how we're not gonna get another hard clash. In the end, we have to think: how are we going to proceed in the next decent 2023 and beyond? Maybe the Prime Minister can't indicate the exact measures that I understand, but is there anything more going on? Is there just some kind of white smoke coming around Princess Day and is it, or is there going to be a process where we think: well, let's try to take political responsibility together as a whole? And I have a very specific question, which at least bothers me. Then the Prime Minister will know where he is with regard to the SGP. Do the low middle incomes also get a place in everything that is invented in the summer, as that group really has it super heavy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u178	Sure. So we're looking at the whole system. I think the higher incomes will make it, so of course it's the people with a small scholarship, the people who work on low incomes. That's the group that's been called attention to before. It is also about the middle groups that are really experiencing the consequences of this crisis. We all want to be aware of that, but we cannot solve all the problems for those groups. It'll eventually be past those three tracks. We're all gonna feel it. We can't dampen and compensate for everything. I just can't. We're doing everything we can. In addition, of course, we are also trying to see what else is possible in wage increases. So it will be along those three tracks, but this is about the trace of the responsibility of Mr Stoffer and myself, that is, of the Chamber and the Cabinet, to see what you can do to mitigate the consequences as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u179	That's important, isn't it? The outcome of the debate is that the VNG's hand-out will be taken up by the cabinet and that 1 million people cannot claim €800, but €1,300. That is significant, despite all the discontent we all have because we would have liked to help people just up there. Of course, that raises the question: how are we going to do this structurally in 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u180	Mr Van Weyenberg is one of the experts on this kind of precise measure in social security. Let me not comment on that now, because that makes no sense if the cabinet has not yet taken a decision. But I'm grateful to know about this. I hate his insights. I think it's true on its own. If you do something along those lines, then in a positive sense it also gives an upward pressure for the groups around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u181	I didn't ask the Prime Minister to say yes, even if that's always allowed. I would have expected this answer, but I would ask him to really take this into consideration, so that in the end we can weigh whether the euros we put into it reach most people in the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u182	Thank you. I want to thank the Prime Minister. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance. No? The Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u183	I don't think there's any... I think we drilled it all out. Unless there are any questions to my two colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u184	Mr. Dassen just came to me. He has another substantive question that has not been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u185	That's correct. The Secretary of State would give some answers during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u186	Yeah, but it's gone! Marnix! He's gone all of a sudden. I don't know where he went.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u187	Then we'll have to wait for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u188	Maybe he'll come back to that in the second term. We're not gonna wait for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u189	Yes, but I would like to table a motion on that in the second term, so I would like to have the answers to that. I asked for this a while ago, in the previous debate. There was no answer to that at the time. We went after that and it would be answered in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u190	I think it would be useful if we started anyway. We'll see if the Secretary of State can answer your question in between, in the second term. Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u191	Unless the Minister of Finance can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u192	Yeah? The Minister of Finance is going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u193	I'd also like to ask the Secretary of State a question in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u194	I hope I'm a worthy substitute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u195	I see the Secretary of State coming in. Mr Dassen has another question for you: you are just in time!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u196	Mr. Chairman. Mr Dassen had a question that was not answered in the letter, so I would still like to answer it. He asked: why do you not charge the high profits of the companies that have benefited from the crisis extra already? I understand that the issue is, in particular, whether you can create an additional basis for corporate taxation in order to tax those excessive profits. Mr Dassen confirms that that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u197	I am looking at Mr Dassen, because I see something else in his appearance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u198	In the previous debate, we had a wide-ranging discussion on windfall tax, which is used in other countries. In other countries there is the possibility to tax companies that profit excessively in times of crisis. My question was whether we in the Netherlands could create a basis for this in the tax plan, so that we as a Chamber have that instrument. If there is a crisis, we can act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u199	A windfall tax sounds nice, but in all countries where it is discussed, it has a different meaning. I call Spain, for example. There's talk of a windfall tax, but it's not tax. It is a regulatory charge for electricity undertakings that do not use natural gas. Italy is also talking about a windfall tax, but that is a new tax based on the assets of a company, the effects of which are not yet clear. Britain indeed has a windfall tax. That is what we have dealt with in our letter. I am prepared to say that we will go into the depths. I understand the question very well. Can you tax it? I'll make it broader. Or introduce a regulatory tax to tax excessive profits. I think that is what Mr Dassen is asking for. You can be in the corporate tax section about that we have already answered.. of course always raise the rate. But we are not going to; we have said that. You could even work in corporate tax at three rates: a 15% take-off rate, which we now have, or a rate of 15.8%, plus an additional rate for those so-called excessive profits. Only, that's incredibly hard to measure. You cannot do it by sector, because then you are in breach of EU law. So you have to find an objective measure for that. That's my answer. I am prepared to work it all out in writing again, but I am not going to promise that I will see Mr Dassen still looking a little more questioning that we will come up with this in the Tax Plan. In fact, I would make a commitment on something that we say does not fit in with the current system and is not feasible either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u200	I'll take a look at Mr. Dassen. No? Mr Klaver had another technical question which had not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u201	I promised to ask the question without further introduction. It concerns Table 2 and Measure 2 on the one-off payment of €500 in relation to the care allowance. If I understand correctly, therefore, I would like to check that there are a number of objections, for example that the target group should actually be further specified, so that it should be reduced, and that makes it more complicated. But is it true that the big implementation problem is that there will be more interaction with the Tax Administration if we introduce this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u202	It's probably Table 2.2. We have examined this because Mr Klaver and Mrs Kuik have made it very clear in the previous first period: we do not want to do it through the existing healthcare allowance, but we do want to do it for the care recipients. Would you be able to do that? Yeah, you can do that, but you have to make a separate law. But then you really run into a number of objections, not just that interaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u203	Mr. President, may I ask the Secretary of State a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u204	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u205	Sorry, I didn't mean to interrupt the Secretary of State. I know there are more objections, but I specifically asked about the following. The implementation problems are the argument not to do things; there is an understanding of this in the Chamber. But I read it very well. My question is not about justice, or whether the target group is sufficient, so other people can think: I'm not getting something that would come to me right now, but really sec about the implementation problem. Is it true that the implementation problem, which puts too much strain on the service, is that there is too much interaction because, for example, people are going to object? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u206	That answer is correct, but the people who don't get it must choose a reference date then object and appeal. That's what we saw in the temporary childcare allowance. Then you take too great a risk in terms of execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u207	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u208	Now we're getting somewhere. There have been many objections, but these are political considerations. This remains completely peeling. Now my question to the Secretary of State is the following. Imagine there'd be more appeal and objection. I just referred, for example, to those 500 FTEs that are currently being deployed to solve the box 3. We're not sure if it's happening, but if it's happening, is it possible to solve this risk?It's a temporary problem that occurs with shifts within the Tax Administration, for example with FTEs from the execution of box 3? Did you get a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u209	Yeah, that's what we've been looking at. We now have a temporary additional capacity, as Mr Klaver said, to settle, as far as box 3 is concerned, the objections that have been accepted. This happens in the months of July, August and September for the years 2017-2020 where the attacks have not yet been imposed, and in October for 2022. So throughout that period, that capacity is used for that purpose. It would be very unwise to use that capacity for something else now and to take those people away from it. Moreover, that is another competence. Back to the question: yes, it is true that you will have to use extra capacity for that. Do we have it right now? No, we don't have any right now. And if I promised, I promise something I can't deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u210	Finally. If I understand correctly, we are not going to do this because there is a risk of implementation that people are going to object. We are not sure if that is going to happen, but it may be that people are going to object and that the Tax Administration will not be able to release enough people to respond to that objection. That's question one. Then I'll come to question two. You say that box 3 runs until October, while the payment of this care allowance would not take place until November. Isn't that something to bring together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u211	Mr. Chairman. We've really kept everything under review. Really everything held against the light. The answer to this question is that we really should not take that risk, because we should not underestimate it. We're talking about 4.4 million people who will get it. The experience of the temporary childcare allowance shows that a group of 5 to 10% feels unfairly treated if they do not get it. Those are really big numbers. That's 220,000 to 440,000 people. You need a minimum FTE capacity of 25. We do not dare to take that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u212	Thank you. No... You also have a second term. It's enough now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u213	I'm keeping it real business. I promised you that. The Secretary of State sketches: until October I need my people for box 3. This will not be paid until November. In time you play a lot of FTEs free. Isn't it even possible to put that capacity on the mat?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u214	Just for a minute. I wish it were that simple, but it's not. Because it's not like suddenly a can of FTEs is available for November. Then you are also too late for this scheme, because of course you have to prepare it, you have to put the ICT on it. In short, we held it to the left, to the right, from top to bottom against the light. The risk is really too great. I would also like me to be here with another answer, but it would not be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u215	I would like to return briefly to the commitment made by the Secretary of State to Mr Dassen on the windfall tax. I understand what it's not. It is not: we are working on it in the Tax Plan 2023. The Secretary of State made that clear. If I understand correctly, it is an investigation into what is happening in other countries and possibly also into what is happening in our own legislation. Of course, it comes from a sense of justice that there are sometimes extreme circumstances in which individuals earn excessive profits in times of crisis. That could be with energy right now. We had that in the corona time at supermarkets. At that time, for example, that was a plea from the CDA's circle, which said: that should be possible, shouldn't it? Do I understand the Secretary of State that he says: I want to see how this is used in other countries, how it works and what opportunities we ourselves may have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u216	Yeah, that research, of course. We must share that knowledge, but I do not want to raise false expectations either. You call the supermarkets. As I said earlier, it is simply not a good proposal, because you are going to impose additional burdens on a particular sector. You'll just run into state aid in Brussels. I just want to give you a realistic analysis. We'll share that investigation with the Chamber. But I'm not gonna raise any false expectations here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u217	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u218	Well, the supermarkets weren't so much brought up by me, but I mentioned a certain party that came up with that idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u219	You will be told that I reply to that very objectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u220	Sure, sure. I appreciate that very much. Thank you for that. So I am not asking for specific sectors. If State aid and European regulation are indeed obstructive, then it should also be obstructive in other countries. Then such a comparison in the European Union of how it is in other countries, how it may be applied and what opportunities we ourselves have would be very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u221	Thank you. That really brings us to the end of the first term of office. No? Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u222	The measures that we are now seeing and which the government is considering will lead to an additional benefit in November or December, and perhaps even in the end of the year. If we pay out this late, there's another option. That is the option to do something on the basis of the declaration for the year 2021. Almost everyone reported it in 2021. They're automatically processed. The tax authorities shall determine the amount of the declaration. Based on the income established in 2021, you can automatically pay up to a certain limit €500 extra. However, I have not seen this measure in the states which have been sent to the Chamber. 30 proposals have been sent, but nothing has been done on the basis of the declarations that have now been received. What's the reason this didn't happen? Is it still possible to pay €500 extra on the basis of the 2021 declaration that is worse than 2022, but it is fairly close to the current income of people below a certain income limit, say 140% of the minimum wage, by means of an automatic refund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u223	This presupposes that the attacks by 2021 have all been imposed and are irrevocably fixed. That is not the case. The point is that the attacks were imposed before 1 July for the 2021 declarations that were submitted on time this year, but a lot of taxpayers sometimes make their returns a little later, ask for a postponement or are subject to a deferral scheme. That raises a problem right away. Then you would have the entire population... I understand the idea namely, but even before 2020 that is not the case, but certainly not before 2021. I don't want to complicate things unnecessarily, because I look like mister difficulty here. In addition, we have box 3. We just made the agreement that those who fall into box 3 will not be hit yet. First the settlement will take place and then it will go through the savings variant later this year. That's not gonna be him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u224	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u225	I don't think that box 3 is so interesting. You can exclude anyone who has a box 3 because you can put a power key on it. You don't have to bring people who have more than €50,000 savings under this one-off payment of €500. I propose a one-off payment of €500 based on the 2021 income. Almost everyone's reported it. The small group that didn't report it will do it later. Then he gets the benefit later. Because perfect solutions do not exist here. If that amount is automatically paid on top of the charge, which is simply determined, then we simply have an enforceable regime. Isn't that the basis on which we always determine something? You have to change one parameter to that and you have to change a little law for that, but you can submit and adopt it here in August/September. Then you can say to a defined group "you get $500 as a household"? Then you know if you have a tax partner or not. You know if you're single. Then you get as close to where we all wanted to be here as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u226	I understand the thought. In any case, I will give the figures, because Mr Omtzigt is doing what is easy as if it were a very small group that has not yet submitted the declaration. That's one. Filing a report is one thing, but what really matters is, if you want to make sure the income is certain, the attack must be imposed definitively. That group is really bigger. I'd really like to give you those numbers. I understand the idea, but I do see some serious objections in that regard. It's more complicated than being brought here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u227	You will return to that in writing with the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u228	Yeah, with the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u229	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I thank the rulers. We'll start with the second term immediately. I give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u230	Mr. Chairman. They themselves receive about two tons a year, Rutte and Kaag, but their message to AOWs with a small pension, welfare mothers with children and especially the hard-working families that are now in financial need is a big middle finger. They have made up 1,001 excuses to wipe out the proposals of the Chamber, but the real reason is of course pure political unwillingness. They just don't want to. The fate of Dutch people will be a terrible concern to them. They have also thrown all the proposals from my own group, the PVV, into the trash. There will be no lower VAT on groceries, no lower rent, no higher AOW support and no further reduction of excise duties on petrol and diesel. There will only be a higher energy surcharge, if necessary, for part of this year and part of next year. But, of course, that's far below the mark. When a bank or KLM threatens to fall, they immediately come running with billions, but they come with nothing, almost nothing, for the ordinary Dutch. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet has completely lost its moral and political compass. They say to that 93-year-old man I've mentioned here more often, who has to spend only €25 a week doing groceries: too bad, you don't eat every day, do you? They say to the hardworking family with a job, that it still doesn't make it and has to go to the food bank at the end of the week: own fault, big bump. They say to the gentleman who doesn't get his medicine at the pharmacy because he can't pay his own contribution: then you shouldn't be sick; you're unlucky. Mr. Chairman. I feel substitute shame, substitute shame, but also anger over so much indecency, so much uncivilization, so much numbness of Rutte and Kaag for the people in financial need. Madam President. We cannot support such a cabinet for a second longer. It's got to go, it's gotta go, and it's gotta go, and it's gotta go, and it's gotta go, and it's gotta go, and it's gotta go, and it's gotta go, and it's gotta go, and it's Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u232	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u233	Thank you, Mr President. As in the first term of this debate, many concerns are voiced again tonight about people and their high energy bills, the high prices and the difficulties that families have to make ends meet. This applies to more and more Dutch people, to people with lower incomes, but also to more and more middle-income people. In view of tonight's debate, Friday's letter and this afternoon's letter, the VVD understands that something needs to be done for that vulnerable group, for those lowest incomes, this year. The cabinet, in consultation with the VNG, is doing what it can to raise that allowance for this year. But a very large group of people has also been noticed a number of times this evening. They are not covered by that arrangement. They're people just above the 120% social minimum. Mr Omtzigt already referred to it. But it's also the big group of middle incomes: the cop, the nurse, the truck driver and the electrician. The cabinet wrote in last Friday's letter that in August we will look at what can be done, also towards 2023, more for those vulnerable and low incomes. If I read that letter, then here too, those middle incomes are likely to end up between shore and ship. We can't let that happen. I would ask the cabinet to confirm that something is going to happen specifically for this group and that proposals are being made. Mr. Chairman. This whole purchasing power issue is a big one. The situation is complex and is going to take some time. It is something we should all be working on: the cabinet, we here in the Lower House, but also employers and employees. I said it in my first term, too. Together with politicians and social partners, we need to look at wages, hours of work and, for example, reduction of burdens. In Germany, cabinet and employers are already at the table. There is always consultation in the Netherlands, but I also want to see ambition and a shared responsibility. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the prices of daily costs such as groceries, transport and energy are increasing significantly;]] [[noting that wages are lagging behind, purchasing power is under pressure and staff are difficult to find;]] [[Whereas both the public authorities and the social partners have a responsibility to contribute to the recovery of purchasing power with relief, targeted support and higher wages;]] [[calls on the government to work with the social partners on purchasing power agreements which include higher wages, reduction of burdens and targeted support;]] [[calls on the government to report to the Chamber on progress in the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans, Mr Paternotte, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u234	Mrs Hermans says she is so worried about all those people who cannot pay the bills. Maybe it's me and I missed it, but is it true that I didn't hear Mrs Hermans put any further questions to the cabinet this evening?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u235	I asked a number of questions in my first term. I shall now turn to a few points. I also express my frustration at the failure of the implementation. The cabinet uses the word "unresponsible." It says that it is irresponsible to take another step now for those middle groups. I hate that, and that's another understatement. But I really do think that the cabinet now, on its way to Prinsjesdag, the Millions note and the August decision-making, should really come up with something, just for these groups. That's what I'm putting in here. In addition, I repeat and confirm in a motion my first-term point that I also expect the cabinet to work on this together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u236	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u237	Mrs Hermans represents the largest party in the Chamber. Then she can't just say she's upset that there's nothing there? Then she can't say: I want the cabinet to look at it again? She also knows that tonight is the only time to do anything, to mean anything, to all those people who are in the shit right now and now see that nothing happens to them all year round? That moment is now, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u238	This cabinet has taken over 6 billion in purchasing power measures with the support of my party this year. With that, we ease the pain and dampen the effects. No, we don't compensate for all the suffering. I might very much like that, but I also have to be honest: that is not possible. We had a debate here two weeks ago on what to do this year. A lot of options have been considered and weighed by the cabinet. The cabinet concludes that it is irresponsible to do something through the healthcare allowance route. My group considers that we should not go on that path. At the same time, Friday seemed as if nothing could be done, as if an increase in allowances through the municipalities was not possible either. The letter from this afternoon's cabinet and the letter from tonight's VNG has added a different weighting, or a different picture. I understand that I also agree with what the cabinet says: we want to talk seriously about this with the VNG. As far as I'm concerned, these talks start tomorrow and we don't have to wait until August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u239	Mrs Hermans says: I would like the Cabinet for Princess Day or in August, at least within a few months, to come up with something. What's Mrs Hermans gonna do if they don't come up with anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u240	I myself and my group are, of course, going to prepare the General Reviews. This will probably be an important subject for many groups and parties, including us. So we will also see for ourselves what we think is important in terms of purchasing power and people's wallets for 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u241	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u242	But the Group of the European People's Party and other political groups have had months to do so. Mrs Hermans says: I really, really, really think they need to come up with something right now. What happens if they don't come up with anything? I wonder what Mrs Hermans will do. Is Mrs Hermans going to say: then we really have to come up with something in December? Or does Mrs Hermans say: now it's over; now we're just quitting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u243	In Mrs van der Plas' question is the suggestion that nothing happened. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. We had a debate here in January on the declaration of government. A month later, a war broke out in Ukraine, with all the terrible consequences. We have also seen the higher prices and energy bills here. This led to a number of proposals and measures being put forward by the government in March to mitigate the purchasing power effects. A spring note was then presented, on which we also debated today and two weeks ago and on which we are going to vote on Thursday. There's also a look-through to 2023 in that spring note. There are a number of measures already in place. They were also mentioned here in the debate in the government statement and also in the debate on the Spring Note two weeks ago, for example on the Wml and on the AOW. Those are already important steps. Is that enough? Should there be more? Yes. That is what we said at the time; that is what I am saying. That is why, in August, the purchasing power for 2023 will be looked at in its entirety. I'm gonna wait and see what the cabinet comes up with. At the same time, together with my group, I am going to look at what we are going to put next to our own proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u244	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u245	Very briefly. I am not pretending that nothing has been done; Mrs Hermans did not hear me say that at all. But Mrs Hermans herself sets the bar very high by saying here: I really think that the cabinet should come up with something in September or August. I am not setting the bar high; Mrs Hermans herself does so. Mrs Hermans sets the bar very high, but what happens if nothing happens? Then that question seems legitimate to me. Because then, in my view, there must be a consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u246	If Mrs Van der Plas had listened carefully to what I said, or perhaps I should have said it more clearly, then she would have heard the following. The point I made is that a letter came from the cabinet on Friday, in which the cabinet says: we are going to look at purchasing power for 2023 and beyond in the August decision-making process towards Prinsjesdag and the Millions Note. That's what we're gonna take an integral look at. That letter is about low incomes and vulnerable households all the time. That was my point. 'Cause, yeah, those people are having a really hard time. That's what we have to do. That is why I welcome the step we are taking through the municipalities. But it's not enough. Because there are more families in the Netherlands and more Dutch who are in trouble, including those with a middle income. Nothing's happening for that now. I ask the cabinet to come up with serious proposals for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u247	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. We are going to listen to Mrs Marijnissen's contribution from the SP. I see Mr. Dassen still wants to interrupt. You were a little late or I hadn't seen you. That last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u248	I had to come a long way. I have one more question. Mrs Hermans actually said, as in her first term, that she is curious about the plans of the cabinet. I remember that I think there was a colleague here who interrupted Mrs Hermans and asked: where are your own plans? Then the reaction was: I ask that question to the cabinet, because I expect them to come up with plans. Now we have actually had a debate today in which the cabinet has not come up with any plan and the whole Chamber has; I wonder what Mrs Hermans thinks of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u249	The whole room hasn't come up with a plan? Or did I get it wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u250	No, the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u251	Oh, the cabinet. Excuse me. Then I got two things mixed up. In my view, on the basis of the letter, the cabinet has responded to all kinds of proposals that have come from the Chamber and has weighed them up. There are also proposals that my group supports on its own and decisions taken earlier this year. They were about the tax reduction and they were about VAT on energy. These are things that I and my group want to take a serious look at, even before 2023. In the previous debate we also discussed, for example, the full-time bonus. That is a proposal I want to take a serious look at. But that is all about 2023, and as some of you rightly pointed out, today it was also about what we can do now for this year. Unfortunately, the conclusion is that a number of things cannot or are irresponsible in their implementation. Fortunately, there is still something possible through the municipalities. I also say through you, Mr President, thank you to the local authorities for that. Is that enough? No, because that's where a very large group, which I've just appointed, falls outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u252	Thank you. That is what you have just said in Mrs van der Plas's interruption. Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u253	But isn't Mrs Hermans very concerned? We've been asking for this for so long in the Cabinet. There's actually no plans. Even for the middle incomes, to which Mrs Hermans rightly refers, it is becoming more and more challenging. We have all made proposals for this. The cabinet has no solution for that either. Isn't Mrs Hermans concerned that we are going to have the same discussion again in September? When will Mrs Hermans come up with the plans she would like to see put forward so that we can perhaps get something done here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u254	I think that the debate on the General Reviews is a good time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u255	Thank you. Then we're going to listen to Mrs. Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u256	More and more people can't pay the bills. They have been watching a debate this evening, the outcome of which is that they can really figure it out for themselves for the rest of the year. We have heard from Prime Minister Rutte and also from Minister of Finance Kaag, who we have not heard from, but we have read in the letter that they simply do nothing, want nothing and cannot do anything. And that's why the motion of censure tonight. If you don't want anything and don't do anything, make room and make sure something happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u257	There is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u258	Mrs Marijnissen is talking about her own motions, but I find 'do nothing' too short. I share the fact that we would have wanted to help more groups, but I have heard the cabinet today promise that the 1 million households with the lowest incomes will receive an additional €500 this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u259	Did you hear that promise, yes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u260	In fact, that's a promise. I see the Prime Minister nodding; I will confirm that again in my own term. Then I think it's fair to say nothing's going to happen. I regret that; I do not know Mrs Marijnissen that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u261	Really uncomfortable with this, really. You really have no idea of the shit that a lot of people are in right now, the pain that a lot of people are feeling right now and the worries that people are having about how to do it even further the rest of the year. Now we're sitting here watching a political charade that you were part of. After all, we saw a letter from the cabinet saying nothing could happen, nothing. The Prime Minister has been here arguing: there was nothing at all. Suddenly there was a political charade: there might have been something left with the VNG. Yeah, for a group too small, 120%. But you also know that the group that is in trouble is much bigger than that. And this is not even with the guarantee that it will happen in 2022. If that is the case, I like to hear it, but now there is not a very warm nod. So it's not. And then you're gonna blame me for something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u262	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u263	I understand that Mrs Marijnissen is a little irritated, but the reality is that the whole Chamber is frustrated because we cannot help any more people besides the EUR 6.5 billion. But what Mrs Marijnissen says here, I simply do not think it is pure politics; that is not how I know Mrs Marijnissen either. I respect that she says here that she wants much more, but now the most vulnerable group gets this. I have even heard parties say that they have difficulty with the fact that it is that group and not the middle income. I would have liked to have helped them both, but those most vulnerable 1 million households get €500 extra. I think that's meaningful. I don't think it's ideal, but I think it's a step. I would appreciate it if Mrs Marijnissen would acknowledge that. Then she may be as dissatisfied as she wants and then she may table a motion of censure if she so wishes, but don't go here saying nothing happens. 1 million households with the lowest incomes receive €500. That is support; that is meaningful support. Maybe that's not enough. That is not enough, but I think we should simply acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u264	Mr. Van Weyenberg, every euro that goes to people who can use it hard is worth it. Yes, but don't take me by any measure if you're responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u265	Really through the chairman, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u266	If Mr Van Weyenberg himself belongs to the group that supplies the Minister of Finance at a time when the economy is running like a tierelier and in which the big companies are making hysterical profits, but where wages are barely rising and people's costs are only rising and in which, as a cabinet, you are completely powerless to do something fundamental, let me say: something fundamental to mean to these people, I do not think it appropriate that you should take my measure. For then Mr Van Weyenberg could have chosen much earlier to raise the minimum wage and freeze the rents, which did happen this year. Why didn't you do that this year? Everyone saw this coming. And now you're gonna take us down here? I really don't think it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u267	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u268	I note that Mrs Marijnissen is going to use more and more words, but I recognise that we are doing something for 1 million households. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u269	Mrs Marijnissen, you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u270	Mr. Chairman. I've got three more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the profits of large companies were sky-high in 2021;]] [[noting that many people are finding it increasingly difficult to make ends meet due to the rise in prices;]] [[calls on the government to increase the tax on profits as soon as possible and to use this money to reduce the cost to people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prices have risen sharply, which, according to the CPB, could cause problems for up to 1.2 million households;]] [[noting that labour in the Netherlands is taxed more heavily than capital;]] [[calls on the government to reduce taxes on labour and to send a proposal to the Chamber for the Tax Plan 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rising prices give the government an additional EUR 3 billion in VAT revenues;]] [[calls on the government to use this EUR 3 billion to improve people's purchasing power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Putin's actions cause great disasters, above all in Ukraine, with death and destruction, while the bombs fall. And European security is also at stake here. But the Netherlands is also hit hard, with a sharp rise in inflation and the energy that has become so much more expensive. In that sense, the war makes us all poorer. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the Spring note, it was therefore right to focus on the pain caused by the war in the wallet in the Netherlands. Yes, the cabinet has done a lot: 6.5 billion. But everyone acknowledges that that's not enough, that we want to do more. That is also a difficult search for what is responsible and feasible. Mr. Chairman. Today's outcome in response to the offer made by the Dutch municipalities, to which I am grateful, is that the most vulnerable 1 million households are now entitled to €500 more. As far as I am concerned, that is a clear commitment. I repeat my earlier request to the interrupting microphone to see what municipalities need to actually pay this year. Mr. Chairman. In addition, this is an assignment for next year. As far as my group is concerned, there must be more before 2023. My group is thinking in particular of an increase in the minimum wage. There is an increase announced in the Spring Note, but it can be even more. But we are also very open to other instruments. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one is about how you could pay part of that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the targeted taxation of extreme excess profits is applied in several countries;]] [[noting that an increase in mining levies would appear to be feasible, but that a number of questions were also identified by the cabinet;]] [[calls on the Government to further identify this option so that it can be taken into account in the decision on purchasing power of 2023 and the proposals to this effect at Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg, Pieter Heerma and Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u272	Mr. Chairman. The search for support shows that the system must also be fundamentally put on hold. My group has previously put forward proposals for a system without surcharges and with, for example, a refundable tax reduction. That's not gonna help right now; I'm realizing that. But we have to do that homework, because the system has to be fundamentally different. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that reducing the burden on low incomes is difficult to achieve, as these groups are often already (almost) not liable for income tax, as shown by the analysis of the Central Planning Bureau;]] [[Whereas more instruments are needed to support low incomes;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a cash-in-cash tax rebate can be implemented in an enforceable manner and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u273	This motion is therefore partly on behalf of Mr Segers, whose party has presented similar plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u274	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u275	Mr Van Weyenberg indicated that we are all getting poorer. Is that what's bothering him? Or is it bothering me? Does it bother him that he's getting poorer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u276	No, but that also shows that if you're gonna compensate because we're all gonna be poorer... that's also the thrust of my contribution, which is that you have to focus the support primarily on the most vulnerable people. That is not Mr Azarkan, and I certainly am not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u277	Can we please stop doing this death-killer "we're all gonna be poorer"? There is a group of Dutch people who notice it directly. These people skip a meal, they won't be able to turn up the heat and use little electricity. But I think he's such a killer. I also hear people in the cabinet say: the Netherlands is impoverished. But it's not a problem for you and me. So stop saying, "We're all gonna be poorer." It's not a problem for us at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u278	No, I'm not gonna do that. We're in wartime. That's gonna hit this country hard. It pales in the misery in Ukraine, but this is affecting us very much. I say this in order to indicate that we cannot compensate for it everywhere. I also call for, wherever possible, the focus to be placed on the people who are concerned, with me, by Mr Azarkan: the people for whom this means that they can no longer do a lot of things that Mr Azarkan and I can fortunately still do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u279	Just a little while longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u280	We are not so much poorer because of the war in Ukraine. We are getting poorer because we have had to import much more gas and therefore have a negative balance. That's why we're becoming collectively poorer. That is what is meant by fiscally: we are exporting money to other countries. This is quite different from what Dutch people mean, namely that they can buy less food. So why don't you stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u281	But that also makes energy more expensive. That's precisely because we import it. My group would like to do a great deal very quickly about this dependence. That's what we have to do. I also think that in wartime you should be honest about the need for the government to help the most vulnerable, the lower and middle incomes. That's what the focus should be on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u282	I heard Mr Van Weyenberg say something about minimum wage. I believe I also saw a Twitter message from his group chairman this week: wages must be raised. Last July, the minimum wage was again indexed. Then why only with €0.20?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u283	In my view, my group is making another appeal. The minimum wage is indexed, but we have said in the spring note that we are going to do part of the 7.5% extra debt a wish from, among other things, Mrs Marijnissen's party earlier, not only in the course of 2024, but already in January of next year. One of the most interesting instruments of the cabinet to look at, I think, is that with even more can be done on 1 January next.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u284	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u285	You think that is an interesting tool to look at, but do you realize that the increase you are proposing is not even inflation? So people just go backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u286	It's good to keep two things apart. Mrs Marijnissen is, of course, right about that. But the minimum wage follows wages and developments in the market sector. So that's already happening on its own. Mrs. Marijnissen and I don't have to do anything about that. So we're gonna get that index. On top of that, we'll do an extra raise. I told the cabinet today that I think that 2.5% is a start, but even more so that it is an instrument that is high on my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u287	During the election we could see bus booths full of: "Let everyone go, but no one falls." I quote just one sentence from the D66 website: "You are not free until everyone is free. D66 believes in equal opportunities for all and help for those who need it." Can Mr Van Weyenberg explain to us what D66 actually meant by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u288	I just had a debate with Mr Azarkan. One of the things my group means by that is: if you want to support people, you do the most for the most vulnerable. We already did that with the $800. I am glad that €500 will be added for the 1 million most vulnerable households. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u289	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u290	It says "for everyone and help for those who need it." Now 1.2 or maybe 1.5 million people need that help. But they will not be helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u291	I disagree with Mrs Van der Plas. Measures have already been taken, for example the lower VAT on energy since last Friday. The million most financially vulnerable households are already entitled to €800. We hope that as many people as possible will request this; please report to your congregation, I say to them. There's now 500 euros. As of January 1st, we won't be able to stop that support. I have said: put the emphasis on the most vulnerable people, so on the low middle incomes. Hence, among other things, my proposal on minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u292	Thank you. Now we're gonna listen to Mrs. Chicken from the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u293	Mr. Chairman. I'm actually still chewing on what I think of this debate. I kind of have the next picture in mind. You hire a contractor to fix your roof. He's trying to do that. It rains a little less in, but it still rains. That's kind of the feeling that I'm left with this debate. It is said that we are going to do something for the people with the lowest incomes, but the way is not yet settled. The implementation is also uncertain, and also when. We've seen that before. The cabinet also says that it is irresponsible to take other additional measures. They give us dozens of reasons for this. At the same time I have dozens of reasons to do something extra, also for the groups that are just above it and for the middle groups. They too will soon contact the municipality for additional assistance, for debt relief. There will be violence behind the front door, higher costs of care, loss of work, removals, visits to the food bank. That will be a real picture. And then we stand here and say to each other again in the autumn: if only we had taken measures in March, because we could have done so before 1 July. Then we say: if only we had taken measures just before 1 July, because that was still possible at the time. The cabinet deliberately chooses not to, because it is too difficult or too complicated or another excuse. The cabinet is hiding behind the municipalities. They say, "Let's do it, because we think there's something we can do. The cabinet itself does not take the direction. I think that's too vulnerable and too skinny. That's not what I expect from a cabinet in these grievous and difficult times. I do not understand why we now have a ministerial team which thinks it is normal that so many people, including middle-class people, are now in danger of falling into poverty. They have nothing to do with it, but they have nothing to do with it. I really wonder what support this cabinet expects, if it has already been wiped out and ruled out itself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u294	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heerma, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Consultations have taken place within the VNG. I think the aldermen of the big cities also looked at the situation this weekend. It does not meet the wishes expressed by the UNG. But people are wondering: what can we do? In the coming days, the cabinet will announce that it is ready to table with the VNG. I would like to know in the second term at what time we will be hearing back as a Chamber what that will mean and what that will mean for what is still possible in 2022. I would also like to ask whether the cabinet is prepared to talk to the VNG about the group that has not so far made any claim to it. There are signs that part of the group entitled does not apply for it, because the application procedures are too complicated or the reputation is not sufficient. This will cause them problems, even though a successful application could be made. I'd like a comment on that. In addition, GroenLinks and the Labour Party put the idea of a solidarity levy back on the table in the previous debate. I indicated at that time that I am positive about that. The cabinet has looked at that again. That is what a letter has come up about, which actually says again, as in the discussion about corona, that it is not really possible. But this time there is a reference to mining taxes. I know that in my opinion GroenLinks suggested this earlier. It is now said: hey, this is an option that could be looked at. Mr Van Weyenberg has tabled a motion on this. I have contributed to this, so that, in the light of a possible discussion in the Cabinet on the August decision-making process in the General Political Reviews, we can discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u296	I hear Mr Heerma saying here that it is not possible to do so again, as in the case of the CDA's motion for a resolution on supermarkets. But does Mr Heerma agree with me that it is high time that the cabinet simply created a basis for this? In any case, as a Chamber, we always have the opportunity to use this instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u297	I believe that Mr Dassen has also asked questions about this basis. In my view, the cabinet has some of the same arguments as when the CDA proposed this in the corona period. These relate to State aid and to the fact that no distinction can be made and so on. But there's a hook in there that could do the potential. Mr Van Weyenberg has tabled a motion on this. I believe that GroenLinks has asked questions about this earlier in the Upper House. I think it's important for the cabinet to take a serious look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u298	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Then we will listen to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u299	Mr. Chairman. While we are debating this evening, reports are coming in on the economy in Germany. We think we're having a hard time right now, but it's getting heavier. The German economy is on the verge of recession. That means we're probably gonna follow. Energy prices continue to rise. That requires a cabinet that rules, that looks forward, that tries to anticipate what's coming towards us. I haven't seen that since this cabinet took office. It's coming after the facts, even now. It is only this evening that the message arrives: we are still going to do something for the lowest incomes. But we've been asking for this since spring. I think it was Mr Van Weyenberg, who said: can we not bring it to 130%, to make that group a little bigger? The answer was: no, you just wait; we'll wait a little while first; we can discuss it with the Spring paper. And now we find out it's not enough. It really requires more from this cabinet. This is not a theoretical exercise, this is not a wish of opposition parties that you have to meet, this is not because opposition parties or coalition parties should have something. This is about more than a million people in the Netherlands who simply can't make ends meet, who can't pay the bills anymore, who get into trouble. In the debate on the declaration of government or in the Political Reviews, I said that we have every day the chance to decide whether we are going to do something good or bad. I don't think we've done enough. I find the answers of the cabinet to the proposals that we have put forward really disappointing. The implementation risks identified in our proposal are also in line with what the municipalities are going to do. Indeed, in its letter, the VNG describes that there are major risks, for example as regards the objections of students and the legal proceedings that are under way. They do not want to take responsibility for this; they place it in the cabinet. There's no answer to that. Life is not without risks, and also the execution by the Tax Administration is not without risks. But I would rather take that risk now than take the risk that more than a million people in the Netherlands will get into trouble. Mr President, I will conclude. I blame the cabinet, as I said. This means that my group cannot bear any responsibility for the supplementary SZW budget either. I really think that too little is being done to repair the purchasing power of people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u300	There is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u301	Mr Klaver wants more to happen, and I respect that. I have a question about the supplementary SZW budget. What's in there is not part of this debate. What is in it is finally extra money for paid parental leave, so that it can go from 50% to 70%. To be honest, I wonder what kind of profit such a vote against the supplementary budget offers all these parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u302	We are trying in various ways to change our minds for the cabinet, and indeed for the coalition. We have said before: let us open the debate with each other and let us not start with a vote against if there are no major differences. I am not going to say that there are no good things in that budget. SZW is responsible for purchasing power policy in the Netherlands. Too little is being done to help the middle groups. That's what I'm really worried about. Regardless of the minor improvements it contains, we say: to this point and no further. In addition, a vote against will keep an extra 2 billion in this budget. I believe that there will then be enough money to ensure that this can be spent on all the social matters that we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u303	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u304	There is a kind of cash slide in that budget, and Mr Klaver knows that very well. What else is in it is extra money for childcare, so that we can make sure that wages on parental leave go from 50% to 70%. That is a long-cherished wish of GroenLinks and D66. I can remember Jesse Klaver, who stood here in an earlier version of himself in the Political Reviews and said: what is good, I support; we must stop playing scoreboard politics and be against things; what I am for, I am in favour, even if I disagree with the cabinet on other points. Frankly, I cannot honestly follow this link to the supplementary budget, with all the goodwill and with all the appreciation I have for Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u305	I've said it before about Rutte. I said, there's Tancredi. "Everything must change, so that everything remains the same." I crave a policy in which we try to go somewhere with small steps forward. But you know what the little steps this cabinet always represents? Steps in a circle. We get to the same point every time. That's gotta end sometime. As of January we are already pressing the cabinet to do something for the middle groups. Every time it's pushed forward. I am not saying that there is nothing to worry about in such a budget. I'm saying too little is being done to really make sure people don't fall through the ice. For me, a limit has been reached. We tried it in the friendly way, by saying: boys, we're not going to make any demands in advance; let's talk to each other. That's not helping. Now we draw this line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u306	Briefly concluding, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u307	I respect Mr Klaver's position on what he thinks or does not think of the support. But it is the same Mr. Klaver who stood here with "stopping with scoreboard politics" and "I support what I like." I note that Mr Klaver wants to make a point about purchasing power and votes against extra money for the Wajong, extra money for childcare and extra money to finally get parental leave to 70% instead of 50% of your salary. He can do that, but I really can't rhyme with the Jesse Clover from a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u308	There's still more money in the budget. That gives all the space to do the social things we want to do. The fact that Mr Van Weyenberg is talking about purchasing power indicates that he has not understood what this is about. This is about the right of existence and the security of existence of millions of people in the Netherlands. You can be very satisfied in your almost characteristic way, so of: look, we are still doing something with €500 for the lowest incomes. That's good. But think of those millions of people in the Netherlands who are not helped now. It can't be! We find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u309	Mr Klaver does not have to act morally and pretend that he thinks it is worse than I do what happens to people who cannot pay their bills. That is not the credit of Mr Klaver. That is not how Mr Klaver and I deal with each other. I say that Mr Klaver has the right to use the discontent about cabinet policy to vote against all things he is for. He knows there's a cash drawer in there. With all due respect, I think that's a game. The former financial spokesman Jesse Klaver knows better. There are important things in it. Jesse Klaver said a year and a half ago: what is good, I support and what is not good, I do not support. It is up to you not to support this purchasing power package. But now that you say 'parental leave has nothing to do with it, but I am against it; no money for the Wajong and no money for childcare', I honestly do not understand. That is not how I know Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u310	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u311	Each has a right to his own perception. Certainly Mr Klaver is entitled to an opinion on the cabinet. But in all humility, I do put a perception aside. Mr Klaver says: "The cabinet does nothing at all. Now there are municipalities that are very bravely taking a step forward and saying: we are willing to take risks." What is the start of the allowance because of the high energy prices? The run-up is that €200 would first be paid. Later that became €800. After that, the municipalities have always said: do not do another individual scheme; do not do this to us, but come up with structural solutions. The cabinet has said: we have turned everything inside out. You had a debate on this with the Secretary of State. You can judge what you want. But to say that this is only due to municipalities that are taking a step forward... No, this is also due to the cabinet. That was first told: don't do it to us. Then it was told: we are prepared to take that step. And then the cabinet said: but then we're going to add €500 together. That is a different perception from the perception that Mr Klaver just put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u312	I welcome the fact that €500 will be added for people with the lowest incomes. That's what I said to the interrupting microphone. I'm not gonna let that go. It is true that this weekend, which has also been brought forward by other aldermen who said: let's try it. That was in response to Friday's letter. But the point I'm making is bigger. Do you know what happens now? Just for the record, I'm in favour of doing this. But what we are now getting is the situation in which people with welfare benefits will eventually have more to spend than those working at minimum wage. That's what's happening now because of what's being arranged here. Again, I'm in favour of doing that. The people up to 120% and the people with benefits need it. But we also have to fight for the working people here. I have to say that nothing has happened in recent weeks to make that possible. And I just don't agree with the government's assessment of the risks. It is quite a coincidence that this option is chosen. It's also the cheapest option there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u313	Thank you. Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u314	Finally. Mr Klaver's frustration is my frustration, because he is right. You're getting bigger and bigger differences. So the higher you make this allowance, the bigger the difference is with people who just fall out. We see an inability to implement targeted policies to help people who need it now. Indeed, we may be facing an upcoming crisis. It could be. We are indeed face to face with people's needs. This is about security of life. I agree with Mr Klaver. It's a bit of a search now, isn't it? And that is not only now, but also after 1 January, and also the year after that, because we will be in this situation for a very long time to come. I simply have difficulty with the perception of a black-and-white image in which the cabinet would supposedly do nothing and municipalities have now taken a brave step forward, while it is one Empire. It is one government, which is really looking for the way we can still do the maximum of the need that remains with us for a very long time, while we have very few resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u315	Two cases. First of all: in 2023 we come to speak on Prince's Day. Then what we have to do is a multiple of what we are talking about now. So that's what we're just gonna start the debate again. If that can take away irritation, I say: I don't really care who's taking care of it, whether it's the cabinet or the municipality, or where it's coming from. It needs to be arranged for people. My main criticism is that the cabinet fails to help working people. And I think that's poor. The message that is being delivered today is: if you work, you have the minimum wage, and you do your best, you will be unlucky in 2022; besides all the things that we have already arranged and that have happened before, you will not get any extra help. And I think that's hard. As far as the risk weighting is concerned, I would say that the risk of doing nothing is much greater. Because, as Mr Omtzigt said, people are falling through the very minimum of existence. They end up in debt. They end up in the debt industry, which you yourself know all about, and they get into the mental problems. And I think we're doing too little here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u316	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I shall now give the floor to Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u317	Madam President. Policy is abstract and numbers are abstract, but the need and financial concerns that people now have are real. I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Klaver. He has underlined this very clearly, and I agree with him. I also agree with him that it can lead to an imbalance that is very worrying. Indeed, people who work for lower wages could get into bigger problems. So that's what we're in the middle of right now. But that is not just a six-month problem, it is a problem of the future. That'll be longer with us. I also referred in an interruption to the visit we received this morning from a minister from Rotterdam. He said: we are an issue point from the food bank in our city, and we just see the queues getting longer. That is real, real and extremely worrying. The cabinet didn't do nothing, certainly not. 6.5 billion is not nothing. That's a big move. The €200 was €800, and now another €500. We would have wanted more, we would have wanted it for more people and we would have wanted it different, but this is now the optimal thing that is possible. At the same time, the UNG also says and has also been said from the width of the Chamber that it should be more targeted and more structural. So we have to look over the turn of the year. What's it gonna look like next year? I am thinking with Mr Van Weyenberg of raising the minimum wage. That is an important means of lifting that bottom, because it is indeed about security of existence. I very much agree with Mr Klaver. Sometimes it's really about to be or not to be for people who work hard and sometimes have very little. But also simplifying the tax system is a means. We will indeed have to look at next year, over the turn of the year. I await the plans for this, but we will have to go to what the CPB called a one-off wagewave. We will eventually have to have higher wages. There is one concern, Madam President, and I shall table a motion on that. That's what's gonna happen next. People now pay a month's worth to their energy supplier, but at the end of the year they may face much higher post-tax rates. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that part of households (unwittingly) pay too low an advance payment and that they may receive a large post-tax from their energy supplier at the end of the year;]] [[Considering that many households face major financial problems or exacerbate existing problems in such a post-taxation;]] [[Whereas an energy supplier such as Eneco has good experiences with social collection;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to reduce payment problems by working with energy companies to provide adequate information on advance payments and a social method of collection;]] [[calls on the government to identify different solutions by 2023 and beyond that that can help households with payment problems as targeted as possible, while learning from the approach of our neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u318	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u319	Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am contributing on behalf of BET1. Tonight was a lot about purchasing power. Perhaps the viewers can remember that the contribution of the Party for Animals and BET1 was also about the wide prosperity and other aspects. We also tabled a motion yesterday in the debate on Kingdom relations to support purchasing power and income in the BES islands. Mr. Chairman. Then there are my motions, which also deal with the concerns that are being taken from the climate fund to complete the repair. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the institution law for the Climate Fund is not yet in place and that the funds for the Climate Fund are now in the supplementary post at the Ministry of Finance;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Court's budget law was shown to be subject to further pressure last year on Accountability Day;]] [[calls on the Government to make mandatory in the system that the Chamber is informed in advance of spending plans, and to review such expenditure for a positive impact on the climate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that broad prosperity is currently very dependent on economic growth, while it is damaging the broad prosperity of the underlying system;]] [[Whereas the concept of broad prosperity is an important tool that is widely embraced and needs further development;]] [[calls on the government to develop a vision in which the economy remains within the limits of the planet and promotes broad prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Sylvana Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-14]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Sylvana Simons and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u321	And then the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has taken money out of the climate fund and that it is now necessary to achieve the same goals with less money;]] [[noting that, in the spring note, the government stated that additional normative arrangements would be made for compensation;]] [[Whereas a climate obligation is a good way to ensure that additional normative agreements are complied with;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a climate obligation for companies benefiting from the funds from the Climate Fund, which includes at least a plan for climate-neutral by 2050, measurable intermediate targets and clear frameworks on how innovations funded from public funds benefit the energy transition as a whole,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Teunissen and Mr Sylvana Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u322	Mr President, thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u323	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u324	If you want to destroy a great civilization, you could draw up a list of the things you have to do: mass immigration, expropriation of the farmers so that food supplies are at risk, make energy prices priceless, rewrite history, by homopropaganda, emancipation, feminism and abortion propaganda to ruin families and family structures, modern art and modern architecture to disrupt the soul of man, transnational connections so that you break democracy. In fact, you have to do about exactly what the people of the cartel have been doing in our countries for decades. It's a perfect manual for destroying a great civilization, the greatest civilization the world has ever seen. It saddens me so much every day to see it happen, that it is destroyed a little further every day, that our world is being worked a little further into the ground every day. You read about it in "The decadence of the Romans" of Montesquieu, you read about it at Tomasi di Lampedusa, as clown Klaver just tried to quote, and you read about it with Gibbon and Spengler. You see it happening, but you can't penetrate the hypnotized mob of it. You can't tell these people that. They're going on and on with the destruction. I do what I can to stop it, but I probably can't, and it breaks my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u325	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u326	Quite apart from all the objectionable lyrics about homopropaganda, which I simply cast far from me and not even give an answer: Mr Baudet said he was working hard, but I did not hear him during the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u327	No, but all that shit about losers like you isn't gonna change anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u328	Well, well, well. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u329	...to the demise of our civilization. This is the problem with micromanagers. Look, micromanagers like all of you can only look at the smallest effects of big problems. You then find yourself in a paradox: something might be good in the short term, for example, giving a little bit of subsidy because people fall over, but the ultimate result is an even bigger state, for example. So only if you can address and agree on the big issues from a helicopter view, it makes sense to manage them at micro level. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna be sitting in space talking for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u330	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u331	But in a lot of pseudopsychological and pseudo-intellectual talk people can't live and pay their bills. Mr Baudet's constituents have seen that today. He doesn't have any ideas about how we handle their high bills, too. Nothing but morally elevated babbling and zero solutions. Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u332	That's total bullshit. My solutions are very concrete and very tangible, namely: to open up the gas tap in Groningen, to stop the energy transition, to stop mass immigration, to make living priceless, to stop the euro, to evaporate our pensions and to devalue our money, to stop the modern architecture that destroys people's souls, and to stop the destruction of families, so that our civilization is revitalising itself. It's not that hard. Only, at that level, you all disagree. So we're talking about the smallest micro-dots. That's what you guys sit around all day playing back and forth, catching flies and playing indignantly. I don't think that's so interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u333	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u334	Mr Baudet may not find it so interesting, but I think that all those who are concerned and looking at this debate did not find his contribution very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u335	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u336	Well, I guess so. Look, people in the Netherlands can choose between all kinds of variants of the Great Reset: Great Reset Party 1, Great Great Reset Party 2, Great Reset Party 3. You all want the same thing. You want to continue with massive integration and the energy transition, and soon the protein transition will come and we all need to become vegetarians; that is part of the expropriation of the farmers. You want more modern art, more modern architecture, more atomisation, more loneliness, and you want transnationalism across the board, so less democracy. That's a direction, an option. But people can also opt for affordable energy, for affordable living, for a Netherlands that is for Dutch people again, with our culture, our history, without contamination and embellishment of our grand colonial, honorable and proud past, for restoring families and families...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u337	Thank you. We're drifting away from the subject now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u338	That's the option! That is a serious political choice. And everything else is a little delay of execution and prank in the margins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u339	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then we're going to listen to Mr. Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Three comments from me on the debate. I think we've reached a new low point in the coalition opposition relationship. I also asked the Prime Minister about this. I don't think we could have been further apart since 1 April last year. I have not really heard a reflection yet, but perhaps the Prime Minister will be able to say something about it in his term. Then there's a comment about the First Chamber. Across the street, the reels are reversed. That's where the opposition is calling the shots. It was interesting to see the interruption of D66 which just happened to Mr Klaver in connection with the vote next week on the supplementary budget for Social Affairs. Because that is just what we lack enough seats for this coalition. The question is, are you going to do something with that? So that could be next week in the First Chamber, because JA21 also has the necessary seats there. We have called for attention to be paid to the middle class. The proposal, the one-two between coalition and cabinet, now focuses on the lowest incomes, but we are fighting with our party for the middle class that is still sinking through the ice. Mr. Chairman. I have two proposals for this, which I would also like to highlight on this stage. And now the chair is coming up. That gives more authority right now, from this height. It's good to use the time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u341	Perhaps you should read your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u342	Yes, but I would like to say: Cabinet, take these motions with you in your deliberations if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u343	You're running out of time, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u344	Yes, but you took time from me by moving the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u345	Yeah, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u346	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch households are hit hard by price increases;]] [[having noted that, inter alia, the Nibud, the CPB and the VNG strongly warn against serious financial consequences for middle incomes;]] [[noting that this year's VAT revenue is estimated at 67,5 billion;]] [[noting that rising prices will lead to higher VAT revenues for the Empire;]] [[calls on the Government to develop scenarios to redirect higher than budgeted VAT revenues in the form of reliefs to middle income and to submit them to the Chamber before 1 August,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u347	Second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the link between the AOW and the statutory minimum wage is maintained, but that the abolition of the IO-AOW, the reversal of the increase in the elderly discount and the abolition of the old-age tax reserve are opposed;]] [[In addition to the link between the AOW and the statutory minimum wage, the government calls on the IO-AOW to maintain the increase in the old age discount and the old age tax reserve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u348	Mr. Chairman. I think Mr Eerdmans' analysis is perhaps reasonable. I am not talking about the height of this chair, although it was justified, but about the gap that arose between the coalition and what does not belong to it. Nevertheless, Mr President, the SGP has been working for 100 years and is trying to get this country to move forward. We will continue to do so. That's why two motions. The first motion also deals with the point that JA21 raised: the middle incomes. With us there is concern about low incomes, but also about middle incomes. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a reduction in the rate of the first share in income tax improves household purchasing power, makes work pay more, reduces marginal pressure and makes the tax system less complicated;]] [[Whereas the purchasing power of low and middle incomes is under pressure;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Tax Plan 2023 a proposal to reduce the rate of the first share in income tax and to cover this by, for example, increasing the rate of the second share in income tax or by using (a part of) the remaining purchasing power package of EUR 2.4 billion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u349	Mr. Chairman. Another motion on the Westerschelde tunnel. The amendment of the SP, BBB and SGP has been discouraged. I understand that this is purely about coverage from the Regional Deals. I hope so, so I call on all colleagues to support it then I have a motion to continue monitoring progress. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Court has requested the completion of the toll at the Westerschelde tunnel as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas there is no reasonable alternative route for the Westerschelde tunnel;]] [[Whereas the early toll-free operation of the Westerschelde Tunnel has a positive cost-benefit effect and contributes to the socio-economic development of the South-West Netherlands region;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal for the toll-free treatment of the Westerschelde Tunnel by 2025 or as soon as possible, and to seek cover for this in, for example, the available funds for new Region Deals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u350	Mr. Chairman. It's getting late. Mr President, thank you. It was fairly clear until not long ago: as an opposition you submitted a proposal and the cabinet always rejected it. We tried for a while. They stopped by. They just pretended to be interested in what the opposition wanted, but then turned out to be nothing. As a matter of fact, at the last minute something comes from the VNG, presented by Mr. Heerma. I saw the coalition embrace that. The minister was giving hints all the time, but no one understood it at the opposition. That was a bit sad, I guess. We didn't understand what he meant at all. It is good that the €500 will be there, but I don't know if I should be very happy about how things turned out. I still have three motions. I'll stick the story together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB study shows that, in a dark scenario, 1.2 million households may encounter payment problems;]] [[whereas the CPB notes that there is a broader problem here, namely that many households are financially vulnerable to other economic crises and shocks;]] [[Whereas the CPB researchers advise to increase structurally the disposable income of lower incomes;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the disposable income of lower incomes can be structurally increased,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the spring note is increasing the budget deficit, while the loss of purchasing power is also increasing;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, also in international comparisons, has a relatively high capacity inequality;]] [[calls on the government to increase taxes on profits and capital in order to reduce taxes on labour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Den Haan and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Den Haan and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u351	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in 2022 the Netherlands is moving at 3 to 5 percentage points of overall purchasing power loss;]] [[whereas the cabinet is unable to achieve a positive purchasing power picture;]] [[whereas there is a windfall in VAT of around EUR 3 billion, but the cabinet does not wish to use it because of budgetary rules;]] [[calls on the government to think out of the box and not to give priority to budgetary rules, but to use the VAT counter for purchasing power repair,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What came out well in the debate today was that we are too often dealing with a policy of moving forward. It was appointed several times today. In January we were busy, in March, in June, and now in July. Eventually, as a Chamber, we conclude that there has been insufficient work. That, in my view, should also be the conclusion of the cabinet itself. If we stand here today with each other and there is so much criticism, there are so few plans and so little thought has been given by the cabinet, then there is a problem with the cabinet and, above all, with the way forward and forward thinking. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions to that effect. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some companies or sectors of industry can profit excessively from a crisis;]] [[Whereas countries such as the United Kingdom are imposing a windfall tax on oil and gas companies, in order to alleviate the pain of sharply rising energy prices, in view of the extraordinary profits they are currently making;]] [[calls on the government in the Tax Plan 2023 to create a basis for a windfall tax, so that in the Netherlands too, in the short term, there will be a legal basis for imposing charges on companies that benefit disproportionately from a crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dassen, Mr Kuik, Mr Klaver, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Raan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Azarkan and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u353	Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the CPB, up to 1.2 million Dutch people may face financial difficulties due to energy prices and high inflation;]] [[noting that the health care allowance system of payout is degressive and creates a targeted way of compensating;]] [[noting that it is possible to generate a maximum additional benefit of €412 through the healthcare allowance in 2022;]] [[calls on the Government to implement, as soon as possible, a legislation to increase the health care allowance through a doubling of care recipients and to ensure that this scheme removes the legal sustainability and risks of higher recovery,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u354	I would like to conclude by congratulating the SGP for 100 years in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u355	Good. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan, the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Has the cabinet been committed to doing anything about purchasing power repair? Yes. Is it enough to fix people's entire income drop? No, I'm afraid not. What I am very pleased about is that the one-off decoupling of the AOW and the legal minimum wage is off the table. Then again, what I'm not so happy about is the way it's covered. This is particularly taken away from older people who are already having a very difficult time, hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to abolish the IO-AOW;]] [[noting that the IO-AOW was introduced as a supplement to the income of the social minimum, the minimum amount needed to live on;]] [[Whereas the group receiving IO-AOW is often no longer able to provide additional income;]] [[calls on the government to consider alternatives to compensate the group of people who now receive IO-AOW after abolition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Raan and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u357	Then there's one more motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the measures in the first and second purchasing power packages of November and March are aimed at 2022;]] [[Whereas inflation expectations for 2022 and 2023 have now increased in such a way that more action is needed;]] [[calls on the government to extend the measures from the first and second purchasing power packages to 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u358	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u359	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u360	Mr. Chairman. The letter from the cabinet on the spring note is clear. Whatever you want, we can't or won't. In August, we're gonna talk about 2023. The message is already that this is not going to be enough for everyone. Meanwhile, the number of households with payment problems increases by the day due to expensive petrol and high energy and food costs. There will be 1.5 million people who don't think in the morning "what are we eating today?', But "do we have enough to eat today, or should we choose between a hot shower and a loaf of bread, or between canceling the children's football club or new shoes for the children?" Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing any motions. I've drawn some with it. Instead, I am looking in particular at two parties holding the key. That's the CDA and the Christian Union. I would ask these parties to think carefully, to take responsibility and to reject this spring note as long as the working middle class, the new working poor, are not properly included in this budget. Show me you're not going along with it. Don't move on to the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u361	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u362	Mr. Chairman. I cannot really say that I thought it was a very useful debate, but that I said at the beginning. I do have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas work should be waged and employment rates increased;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[calls on the Government to examine and send to the Chamber an increase in the employment discount for various scenarios,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas workers' wages may increase if employers' labour costs fall;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how workers' wages can rise cost-neutrally for employers, and to inform the Court about the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the fall of poverty has a major impact and is co-caused by our complex social system;]] [[Whereas measures to improve purchasing power often encounter implementation concerns;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the poverty trap can be lifted and specifically include implementation issues,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas people on welfare benefits who want to live together do not do so now because they then have to turn in money;]] [[calls on the government to remove the cost sharing standard also for people over 27 years of age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-28]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-30]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u363	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u364	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u365	Mr. Chairman. We're in the biggest existential security crisis since 1945. In December and March we had to wait, and in July we are too late. When the State needed 770 million for shares in KLM: within the weekend. A billion-dollar NOW scheme? In half a week. 1 billion grants for the Tesla's? No problem. Shut down three coal power stations? 1.8 billion compensation. Italy's about to go bankrupt. Then we transfer 40 billion to the corona fund, so the Italians get cheap insulation. And we have 20 billion for a nitrogen fund. Now we need 1 billion or 2 billion for the poorest households and we are failing. This is a disgrace, a great shame, because we don't know how to get that money. This will also lead to problems. If someone with a welfare allowance gets €1,300 and the neighbor, who's below the minimum wage, doesn't get anything at all, that's gonna be a real problem. Mr. Chairman. One motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hundreds of thousands of families may be faced with energy shortfalls in the energy bill with coercive actions, energy closure and a debt spiral later this year;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with energy suppliers and to present a plan by Prinsjesdag at the latest to avoid closure, collection costs and other problems in this group, including an opportunity to help households financially in a number of cases in order to avoid further problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Klaver, Mr Kuik, Mr Wilders, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Azarkan, Mr Den Haan, Mr Van Haga, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Dassen, Mr Van Raan and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u366	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u367	Mr. Chairman. I owed Mr Van Weyenberg an answer. I can say on this point that the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions is, of course, in conversation with the municipalities, including the special assistance, while also paying attention to the students. It also talks about bottlenecks that may arise. I would like to stress that, of course, we take these signals very seriously. So that's it at that point. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Hermans' question. I can say to that: I can confirm that. That's what I said. We look at all the groups, of course also at the middle incomes, where there really is support needed, and at the groups that others were talking about, but at least at this group. That's what you see in the coalition agreement, I think. Then Mr Heerma: at what time will the Lower House be informed about the consultation with the VNG? They're working hard on it. In any case, the Minister will inform you of progress in the coming week. The point he raised, namely the energy allowance and the people who are not being reached, the people who do not use it, is absolutely a point of attention. The municipalities are also committed to this. This is also the subject of the talks we have with the municipalities. We will look again with the municipalities now at what we can simplify further in the scheme and how we can promote it, as far as it all goes in the implementation. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I would, of course, advise against six. I do not think that is the issue, but I hope that it will not be accepted. The motion in part No. 7 gets judgment room. The Ministers for Social Affairs and Economic Affairs are in talks with the social partners. In doing so, the joint task is to see what we can do to improve purchasing power, where wages need to increase structurally. From the cabinet we also look at what measures we can take to contribute to that improvement for vulnerable low and middle incomes. So the motion in part No. 7 gets judgment room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u368	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u369	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make two further amendments, although the content is already known, I think. The amendment tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Marijnissen concerns the retroactive freezing of rents as of 1 July 2022, covering the increase in the tax on profits of companies. The inventory of possible measures has already shown that it is not possible to freeze or reduce rents in 2022. I think we've discussed that before. However, the cabinet does talk to the housing corporations to see if the agreed rent reduction can be brought forward from the performance agreements. But because it cannot be as stated in the text of the amendment, the cabinet is not advising the amendment. Then there is Mr Dassen's amendment on the doubling of the care allowance, covering the introduction of a windfall levy in 2023. We support the importance of purchasing power. This has, of course, been extensively mentioned in the letter, but also in the various debates. The technique appears to be working against us in this too, so we advise against the amendment for the reasons mentioned above. Then I'll do the part of the motions that strike me, Madam President. The motion in part No. I would advise against Mrs Marijnissen's 10 amendments. The motion in part No. 13 by Mr Segers and Mr Heerma will be judged by Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 14. I would like to explain this. It is up to the directors on climate policy to work out the spending proposals. If there is agreement, including with Finance, the funds will be transferred from the supplementary item to the budget, but the stable system is what we agreed in terms of quality within the framework of Understanding. That is already legally enshrined in the Compatibility Act. For these reasons, the cabinet is dissuading this motion. Then the motion to part No. 15, on broad prosperity. As Mr Van Raan knows, we are working on a thinking framework for broad prosperity. I'd like to wait and see. That's work for the planning agencies. We've been talking about it a lot. For these reasons, I do not think it is wise to anticipate the work of the planning agencies already. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mr Van Raan. I shall come back to the motion on part No. 14, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u370	Maybe first you can make the motion in part no. Sixteen. Then we have had Mr Van Raan's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u371	Okay. I also say to Mr Van Raan that the objectives are laid down in the institutional law. The expenditure of the Climate Fund must meet this requirement. At least, the objectives were laid down in the Institution Act. It has already been ensured that expenditure should contribute to CO reduction and/or energy transition. Implementation proposals from companies that may benefit from them in the context of tailor-made arrangements with the large exhibitors must, of course, have a demonstrable impact and contribute to the goals. So we believe that they are sufficiently secure and also meet the cabinet goal of climate neutrality by 2050. So I see little added value and advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u372	That's clear. Thanks for the appreciation. At the motion in part No. 14 the Minister cites the Compatibility Act, but it doesn't say anything about the climate impact. That does not therefore seem to me to be an argument for rejecting the motion, because you want to have an extra measuring point because of the seriousness of the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u373	But we have the Climate Act. The content is determined therein, as are the objectives. The spending proposals are really up to the Minister for Climate and Energy. The motion refers to the institution law for the Climate Fund: "whereas it was found on Accountability Day that the Court's budget law came under pressure last year." That is a much broader debate. It also says: "calls on the government to make compulsory in this system that the Chamber is informed in advance of spending plans." This is never really the case, because when funds are transferred, the person in charge is informed, in accordance with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act. That is the case anyway, whether it is about climate targets or a totally different law. So I don't think this is relevant either if you look at the broader framework. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 17 by Mr Eerdmans. Indeed, it is true that the estimate for VAT revenue has been adjusted in relation to the CEP estimate. As you know, we are still pursuing a trendary fiscal policy in this country for good reasons. In other words, windfalls and setbacks go with the waves. We have an automatic stabilization of the economy. We don't have to increase the burden in case of setbacks. It can't go one way. But of course we are taking the wider debate with us in August, even when it comes to the purchasing power debate. Then the motion to part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u374	And your appreciation of the motion in part no. 17?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u375	It's been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 18: dissuade. There's no cover for that either. Then the motion to part No. 20 by Mr Stoffer and Mrs Van der Plas. This motion will be covered. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, as Mr Stoffer knows, explained in her letter of 15 April last year the process of selecting the Regional Deals. We do not want to anticipate that. Money is available, 261 million. You will hear before the summer recess of the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the process of submitting projects by the regions. I don't want to anticipate that. That is why we reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u376	I didn't have much time to explain. I don't care about the cover. It's my job to get rid of the toll in the Westerschelde tunnel. I have now included in the motion: for example, money from the Regional Deals. It can come from somewhere else. But let us be clear: in the discussions we had on the Spring Note, too, this was an express wish that the SGP has brought in, and in my opinion BBB and SP in their conversations as well. So it's not about the cover. For all I care, it may come from the Growth Fund or anywhere else. It's what we want to achieve that matters to me. The money is a means to that end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u377	That's still true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u378	Maybe we can dissuade it from being turned upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u379	No. You can indeed come up with a number of options. It cannot come from the Growth Fund, I say, because it has already been invested. The purpose of the Growth Fund is also very different. I still think that, in a debate on the Spring Note, I cannot anticipate a look at the additional budget 2022 and the cabinet's plans, and their coverage, for 2023. I am not going to anticipate the letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is due for the summer recess, so Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u380	Then is it wise to hold the motion? I'll take a look at Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u381	If Mr Stoffer wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u382	I'm gonna think about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u383	Then the motion to part No. 21, by Mr Azarkan, Mrs Den Haan and Mr Dassen. We are involved in the August decision-making process. I'm giving this motion judgment room. For the motion in part No. 23 by Mr Azarkan and Mrs Den Haan, my answer is actually the same as my response to Mr Eerdmans. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 26 by Mrs Den Haan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Raan and Mr Dassen. The linking of the AOW makes the abolition of the IO-AOW more than good. All the elderly now receive the IO-AOW. Soon they will have another advantage with the higher AOW. That is why we do not recommend this motion. The motion in part No. 29 considers the Cabinet to be an appeal from this Chamber to employers to cause this one-off wagewave. This is often repeated by many economists, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u384	Then what is your appreciation of the motion in part No. 29?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u385	Well, it's a call.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u386	It's a call, but it says "requests the government."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u387	Then we advise against this motion. There is a limited role for the government. The Prime Minister has already spoken about the discussion which is being held by the Ministers for Social Affairs and Economic Affairs and at some point also by myself with the social partners. But at the moment it is not up to the government to call on employers to do so. A number of ministers do so, but it is requested to examine it. This is a real responsibility of the social partners, especially employers. Then the motion to part No. 30 by Mr Van Haga. It is, of course, always the aim to get people out of poverty traps. There is also an exchange between the security of life and the poverty trap. Each year, SZW reports on this in the budget. In August, the marginal pressure will be looked at. But as the motion has been put forward, it is not recommended. Then the last two that are still on me. First of all, Mr Van Haga's motion on item No. 31 on the lifting of the cost sharing standard. There's no cover for that. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 32 we give Judgment Room. Of course, we're going to get in touch. There is already contact, I say towards Mr Omtzigt and the wider Chamber, with the energy suppliers to prevent closure. For Princess Day, you will hear more about this from a number of relevant ministers. This is indeed a broader approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u388	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the motion in part No. 8 by Mrs Marijnissen is the appreciation to discourage the motion. This has to do with the fact that we are not going to look at this until August when the burden decision is taken. The same applies to the motion in part No. 9. This is because it calls for a proposal to be made before the 2023 Tax Plan. The motion in part No. 11 by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Heerma and Mr Segers, we could give judgement to Chambers. This is about a possible addition to the mining levies. I would like to point out, as the letter of 1 July states, that it must be possible to do so legally. I would like to make that reservation here, but that gives the motion a ruling Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 12 by Van Weyenberg and Segers on the cashable tax discount. That is, of course, a very radical change in the system. But it also says: inform the Chamber about this before 2023. Judgment Room. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 19, by Mr Stoffer and Mrs Marijnissen, is actually ahead of the August decision-making process. I'd like to ask you to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u390	Let me see if Mr Stoffer and Mrs Marijnissen are prepared to hold the motion. They're still thinking about it. What if the motion isn't stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u391	It'll be dissuaded. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 22. This also applies, of course, to the decision-making process in August. I would therefore also like to propose that this motion be retained. It is a motion by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u392	Let me see if Mr Azarkan is prepared to hold the motion. He'll think about it. What if he doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u393	It'll be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u394	Then the motion to part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u395	Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. We've been through this for a short time. I have promised a letter in which I will recapture what such a windfall tax entails. As the motion now stands, it is not recommended. Then the motion to part No. 28, by Mr Van Haga. It invites the government to examine an increase in the employment discount for various scenarios and to send it to the Chamber. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u396	Thank you. There was another question by Mr Omtzigt on the motion for a resolution on item No. 32, if I'm right. That motion was addressed to the Minister of Finance, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u397	I'm still waiting for an answer from the Secretary of State, or is that coming in writing? The question of whether it is possible to do something further through the tax return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u398	I thought I'd answered that. That was the 2021 declaration, if I understand correctly. This is what I said. I'm gonna give you one. It's a long time since all these reports came in. Not until you make the hit, you really know what the income is. I promised I'd put those numbers in the picture. How many returns have been filed now? How many attacks have been imposed? But I don't expect much of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u399	You'd let the Chamber know in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u400	Yes, I'd do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u401	I had the question to the Minister of Finance when the letter of amendment will come to the two laws, because in fact 500 million has been added today, including an execution test. Is the VNG gonna do it? Because I have read her letter about the possibilities and the conditions for bringing students, slightly differently. Will that be in that letter of amendment? When can we see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u402	I believe that the law itself, for the €800, was submitted by the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, as I recall. So the increase will also be processed by her, this week. I thought she had already come into contact with the Chamber in order to make this possible. That's one. All contacts with the VNG also run through the Minister for APP, so to speak, through the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. I just need to check all the details with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u403	This is a rather odd answer, I'm just saying. The government's gonna decide tonight that there's gonna be an extra 0.5 billion. There's a difference of opinion on that. Then I expect us to know if it is feasible and if the UNG agrees. We received a letter today that they will only agree if the students are taken and otherwise not, because they will get into legal trouble. If the government had done this, I would have expected them to be the minister for APP, so what is it? In the case of poverty policy, participation and pensions, they had been placed in vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u404	May I make a suggestion? If this cannot be done in the debate now, can it be answered in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u405	Well, I can just respond to that. As Mr Omtzigt well knows, I think he has had talks with the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, the Cabinet intends to implement this together with the VNG. That has already been said by the Prime Minister and we confirmed this in the debate this evening. I also confirm here that the cover will be arranged. But Mr Omtzigt asked me a specific question about a legislative amendment. It has already been submitted by the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions. I do not have all the details of this at 11.10 p.m. If it had been asked before, we could have confirmed it, but she's going to work on this. She is the minister who is the first contact person and has had all the talks. That is also apparent from the letter I sent. This app also shows that. I have received these here, by the way, in the Chamber. You received it before we did, I say to the Chamber. The intention of the cabinet, which is being reconfirmed, is that we want to implement this, with all the problems that may still be mentioned in the letter from the VNG, in the e-mail. No, it's an app, I think; "received by app," it says. Then it is up to the Minister to explain in writing, perhaps tomorrow or Thursday, what can and cannot happen when it comes to the potential target groups, including students. The students were previously excluded, I believe in an earlier request. The text states that "we" made the agreement to exclude students from the energy surcharge. Then there will be further explanations. But I have to return to Minister Schouten on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u406	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u407	Okay, then I'll wait for Minister Schouten's letter. I would appreciate it if it would at least come tomorrow evening, because the votes are Thursday. This is about somethin'. "We made the deal": the Chamber did not particularly agree with that. That was the government itself, which, by the way, got it out of the legislative proposal after the Council of State had signed it. The students were in there before that. The VNG has made it clear in its letter that it will only do so if this problem is resolved. They think it's legally impossible to exclude students. This is not covered by the Constitution. That is what I said in my contribution: this is contrary to Article 1. You can't say a 22-year-old student doesn't get it and a 22-year-old non-student gets it. I am waiting with interest tomorrow for the letter, including its feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u408	I have a slightly easier remark: I want the motion in part no. Hold 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u409	At the request of Mr Stoffer, I propose his motion (36120, No. 20). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u410	That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the leaders, the MPs, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-tweedekamer-37.u411	We're going to vote tomorrow on the motions that have been tabled. No, excuse me, we're going to vote the day after tomorrow. I feel it is already Wednesday, but that is not yet the case. We're going to vote next Thursday.
