ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the six amendments to the Constitution at second reading. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. Of course, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Van den Berg on his maiden speech. His scientific background is also very well known to the colleagues who support me today. The contribution he makes to the social debate from his scientific background is also well known. From that point of view, it is very good that he is now strengthening parliamentary democracy as a member. But of course I always try to make an addition to a maiden speech. No, I say that to Mr Van den Berg. I thought it very nice that Mr Van den Berg quoted that your contribution was for the sake of good legislation and to prevent evil. Then I thought to myself: maybe we should add "and do the right thing."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u4	Mr. Kox, if you have an interruption, please use this microphone or you won't be in the picture. We would all regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u5	I like being on TV. Now, of course, in 1848 that split was made. The Lower House should do the right thing, said Donker Curtius, and the Upper House should prevent evil. But it is very nice that we sometimes interpret it so widely that we still do the right thing in stopping evil. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u6	This is again a very nice and valuable addition from Mr Kox. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a general introduction. First of all, I will address a number of general questions that have been asked, and then I will, like Members of this House, thank you for that on the basis of every constitutional proposal. Mr. Chairman. It's a special day today. We are talking about six proposals for constitutional change at second reading. First of all, I would like to say that the Constitution, fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law are of great importance, both for the cabinet and for society. In this context, I have repeatedly considered in recent months the fact that the Constitution is our basic constitutional document. It led to the announcement from the House of Representatives that Wednesday is Constitutional Day. In fact, the House of Representatives has often discussed several constitutional proposals on Wednesdays during the last period. But it is a privilege to deal with six different proposals on a Tuesday with the Upper House. The importance of the Constitution is, of course, the basis of all public action. He brings government officials and bodies to life, gives them powers and regulates the action of the government. In that case, we can think of the limitation of state-trading with regard to traditional freedom rights, but the Constitution also speaks of an ambition. He indicates what the Netherlands stands for and what we strive for. That deserves respect, cherishment and care in dealing with it. Mr. Chairman. The importance of strengthening our democratic rule of law is urgent and has our urgent attention. Not only from this cabinet; I hear that very clearly here in this Chamber. Recent events and developments underline this urgency, including the war in Ukraine, which shows that it remains important to emphasise and strengthen the value of the democratic rule of law. Of course, however, this urgency is also highlighted by the Parliamentary Interrogation Committee on Childcare Allowance and its follow-up, as well as by the rule of law debate that is currently taking place in the European Union. Following the childcare allowance affair, the Lower House asked the government, among other things, to prepare for the establishment of a state committee that broadly analyses the functioning of the rule of law and proposes to strengthen it. These preparations are now under way. The Chamber has received the draft mandate for the State Commission on the Rule of Law. In the meantime, we have also sent a letter to discuss this with each other shortly in the tripartite consultations in preparation. In my view, the senators Dittrich and De Boer have been appointed to hold consultations with each other in that tripartite. In the debate we had earlier in this Chamber, together with the Foreign Minister, we also discussed that the democratic rule of law is the ultimate framework within which peaceful, safe and healthy living together is possible, people enjoy freedom in bondage and can develop themselves, individually or collectively, and within which companies can develop. The values of a democratic rule of law legitimise, standardise and limit government action and therefore also constitute the anchor point and the guiding principle of government action. Everyone benefits from a well-functioning democratic rule of law. It is therefore my commitment as a minister to continue to stand up for the democratic rule of law, both in the Netherlands and within the European Union, and my commitment is complementary to that of all the other members of the cabinet who are also committed to this. The foregoing does not mean that the Constitution is a quiet property. I have heard this in several speeches from Members. The Constitution and also our democratic rule of law deserve to be maintained and protected and renewed where necessary. Members have explained very well all the different constitutional proposals. I will not repeat all the individual articles here, partly in view of the time, because they have already been discussed extensively in this debate. Of course it is six different proposals. Mr Kox, among others, spoke about loose sand in this context. Mr Kox did not say that; he said it more neatly. He said that the constitutional proposals have no connection whatsoever. My second question to Mr Kox is: must there always be a connection? On the other hand, I understand very well what Mr Kox means, because in the end the Constitution is also a coherent whole and it is also good to look at it from that perspective. Mr Koole asked whether you should no longer deal with separate constitutional proposals in conjunction with each other. On these proposals you can see that also came back in the discussion just now that each proposal has its own cause and background, with some proposals being more interrelated than others. The general provision, the revision of Article 13 and Article 17 of the Constitution, is based on the Thamassen State Commission. A number of other proposals, which also affect the position of the First Chamber, are still on the way: the right of return, the method of election and the treatment of the second reading by the united assembly. Should they be included in a single constitutional proposal? Mr Koole did not say that either. A number of arguments can be put forward for this. As a minister, I also say very openly that connecting a lot of constitutional proposals to each other sometimes also carries the risk that one Constitutional proposal might suffer. On the other hand, you can also see that it may be important to deal with proposals that are coherent. In my view, it is also the intention of this Chamber to do so within the framework of the proposals that are being put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u7	I would like to thank the Minister for advocating this coherence. In my speech, I also mentioned the idea of the Council of State, which, in response to the opinion on the right to return, made it obvious that, where constitutional proposals are coherent and similar in time, they should be treated in a coherent manner. I did not say 'in one proposal', because then one might bite the other, so separate proposals, but in conjunction. In addition to the explanatory statement, you might also be able to make a statement of consistency for those proposals referred to by the Council of State. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u8	There are two aspects to this for me. The first is that I have not just mentioned this, but it is good to point out that if proposals are inextricably linked, it is of course important to deal with this together, in a single constitutional proposal. If there is a link between different proposals, it is particularly good if the cabinet reflects on them whether it is important to bring this forward together. In addition, I can see that in this Chamber, for example, the Chamber itself can also decide to deal with constitutional proposals together. With regard to a statement of consistency, which Mr Koole rightly asks for, it would rather be my preference at this point, if it really is interrelated, to put it together in one constitutional proposal than to add perhaps three documents with a plus document. If it really is coherent, it should also be coherent in a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u9	That depends, of course, on the degree of coherence. Sometimes it is clearly coherent and can be done in one proposal. But sometimes it relates to the same subject and there is a broader coherence. The Council of State cites the example of the First Chamber, with the right to return, the method of election and the unified assembly with constitutional proposals. That all affects the position of the First Chamber. That is too broad to be made in one proposal, but coherent enough to deal with them in conjunction. That could therefore be served in such a statement of consistency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u10	I believe that a number of proposals are already before us. One proposal we have to bring further to this point, namely the proposal concerning the return right of the Upper House. I think it would be a good idea to take those steps first. But it is certainly important in this respect, and I can also imagine that if we deal with the right of return later on, we will discuss in plenary the relations it has with other aspects and treatment proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u11	I welcome this commitment in itself, but the example of the First Chamber was an example because the Council of State mentioned it. My question is whether the Minister will undertake that, where appropriate, where there is coherence and where it is close in time, the government will endeavour to deal with it in conjunction, possibly in conjunction with the explanatory statement. But if it is treated in one way or another in a coherent way, it can be dealt with at the same time in the context which the Council of State believes is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u12	In the balancing framework used in legislation, of course, there is an increasing need for this legislation itself, in the explanatory memorandum, to define the relationship between this bill and other legislative proposals. That assignment came out earlier, too. I therefore prefer to describe it mainly in the legislative proposals themselves, because that is how you describe the coherence of things in the explanatory memorandum itself and not so much an overarching story. But, of course, I think it is important that you show coherence and that you bring it up in a discussion, so that people also know in what context the Chambers decide on legislative proposals. You have to know which inter... You have to know what relationships there are between you and me. I think that's a better word. Mr. Chairman. There was also the question of what other proposals for amendments to the Constitution are there. That is what Mr Dittrich is asking for. Fourteen proposals for amendments to the Constitution are currently under discussion with the States-General. Six of them are on the initiative of MPs. Eight have been submitted by the government. In addition, two constitutional proposals have been put into procedure, on which the Advisory Section of the Council of State has now given its opinion. That is the amendment concerning the nomination of the members of the Supreme Court and a proposal on the return right of the Supreme Court. Of the eight proposals at second reading, there are six government proposals and two own-initiative proposals. Those six government proposals are being dealt with by this Chamber today. With regard to new constitutional legislation, the constitutional review is, of course, the other subject of a whole process. Several members have already pointed that out. I am working with the Minister for Legal Protection on a main letter. It is also intended to send them to both chambers before the summer recess. It still is, as I say to the chairman. That is an effort I hope to make, I say to the President. Furthermore, I naturally have the opinion of the Foks Committee on the prosecution of the criminal offences. I have this task with the Minister of Justice and Security. My commitment is to come up with a position on this in the autumn. But, of course, I must do so together with the Minister of Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox also says that they were fine quotes by Mr Van den Berg. I remember having his book as a textbook when I was still studying state and government law. It is not for me as a minister to express an opinion on the interest of the members of the Second and Upper Chambers. I know, however, that the House of Representatives has also chosen to deal with a large part of the proposals we are discussing. The House of Representatives has taken time to do so together. In that sense, I have at least experienced in the House of Representatives that this has been the focus of attention. I have seen this, among other things, when dealing with Mr De Hoop's own-initiative legislation in the Upper Chamber, but also with Mrs Leijten's own-initiative legislation in the Upper Chamber. Then there are the further steps in the modernisation of the Constitution. I have already mentioned that we are in the process of constitutional review. We have a state commission on the rule of law. He's gonna work on this, too. At the moment I have no further intentions, also given the fact that there is still a lot of legislation running around the Chambers. One important point that both Mr Koole and Mr Dittrich raised is that our Constitution should be given attention in education. I'm really underlining how important that is. Fortunately, the Constitution has also become increasingly involved in education, especially in primary, secondary and special education, since the law on the clarification of citizenship assignments to schools. That Act entered into force on 1 August 2021. It is strange that education should be obliged to pay attention to it, but it is very good to oblige education to recognise its focus on the teaching of respect for and knowledge of the basic values of the democratic rule of law, as enshrined in the Constitution and in the universally applicable fundamental human rights and freedoms. It is important that it is not just a matter of knowing and knowing, but also of attitude and behaviour. The point is that you are also acting on these basic conditions. In that context, I like to see a lot of students visiting ProDemos every year for democracy and the rule of law. This also brings them much about the value and importance of the Constitution. ProDemos also comes to schools these days when it's hard for those schools to come. Mr Dittrich asked for 175 years of Constitution. That is a memorable lustrum and also a good point of reference to reflect on the achievements of our democratic rule of law and our Constitution in particular. In the autumn, I will inform the Chambers of any activities I wish to organise in this context. In addition, it was good to note that the House of Representatives indicated that it was important to pay attention to 175 years of Constitution. Mr President, this was my general introduction. Now to Article 17 of the Constitution, the anchoring of the right to a fair trial. By anchoring the right to a fair trial in the Constitution, there will soon be one clear and fundamental standard for all lawsuits. The constitutional proposal on the incorporation of the law does not as such require changes to lower laws or regulations or to implementation practice, at least not yet foreseeable. However, Mr Dittrich has, of course, shown in his examples that justice is not a peaceful property. I understand the constructive critical questions about how to give concrete substance to constitutional law. I also understand that it is ultimately a question of application in legal practice. You can write something down, something can be law, but as with citizenship education, it is also about how you act in practice on the basis of the starting point. We are therefore not here merely to anchor this constitutional right. I shall now turn to the questions put by Mr Dittrich from the D66 Group. I am also doing this on behalf of the Minister for Justice and Security, and as far as legal aid is concerned, also on behalf of the Minister for Legal Protection. The Animal Party, together with Mr Dittrich, has asked these questions. Mr. Chairman. What is the added value of including the right to a fair trial in the Constitution? Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked the same question. It is true that the right to a fair trial has already been enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and that elements of that right have already been developed in legislation and case law. Nor is it the case that there is a lack of clarity as to the content of this right. I share that with Mrs Baay-Timmerman. However, the added value of incorporating this right into our Constitution is that some jurisdictions in the European Convention on Human Rights and other conventions are not in international law. As far as foreign law, parts of civil service law and tax law are concerned, this is not covered by any international treaty. By including the right to a fair trial in the Constitution, you will get that broader effect, including on that. This guarantees that this is done at the highest legal level in the Netherlands. This will enable people themselves to find this important right in their Constitution. Mr Ganzevoort asked whether this also required an active improvement in access to justice. I understand from my fellow Minister that I need a nuanced answer. The right to a fair trial is already firmly enshrined in Dutch law and practice, including those jurisdictions which are outside the protection of the Treaties. The cabinet does not assume that the anchoring of the right to a fair trial will immediately lead to a change in existing or planned laws and regulations. But that doesn't take away from it. That's where the nuance is that there's room to see if access to justice can be improved. This belongs to my colleague's portfolio. That constitutional anchorage could be seen as supporting his policy of improving access to justice. These include not only access to justice and the right to legal aid, but also access to information, advice, guidance in resolving a dispute and alternative forms of dispute resolution. Mr Talsma said: this is a sober wording of the law; does that also mean a sober legal interpretation of the law? No, definitely not. The sober wording really fits the character of our Dutch Constitution, which does not describe all rights in detail. Of course, the fair process must be guaranteed in its entirety. In this context, Mr Koole asked: the proposed Article 17 gives the right to an independent and impartial judge, but should we not include something explicit about it in the Constitution? It has already been dealt with in several places in the Constitution, and I think that is enough. Mr Koole said it himself: Article 117 of the Constitution, of course, lays down that judges are appointed for life and can only be dismissed by the Supreme Court after a special procedure if the law so provides. Under the fourth paragraph of Article 116 of the Constitution, judicial supervision can only be exercised by the courts themselves. In addition, independence and impartiality are also regulated by lower laws and regulations. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dittrich also asked on behalf of Mr Nicolaï of the Animal Party whether the principle of equality of arms should not be included in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The principle of equality of arms, as Mr Dittrich pointed out, lies, of course, in the principle of the right to a fair trial. This refers to the principle that the prosecution and the defendant have to some extent equal opportunities in the trial. The case file should therefore include all the incriminating but also the exculpatory material collected by the Public Prosecutor against the defendant, as Mr Dittrich also mentioned. The D.A. may temporarily withhold certain documents from the defendant in the interest of the investigation. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Dittrich also said that there would be cases where certain exculpatory statements are not in the files. Of course, he has broad experience, also in practice. First of all, I would like to stress that it should be. I checked with the Secretary of Law. In general, there are no signs that the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office do not comply with this, but it is primarily up to the courts in individual criminal cases to ensure that the action of the Public Prosecutor's Office and, indirectly, the police, both in terms of content and compliance with all the rules, is just right. You can't use that... That should have a very careful, precise interpretation, because a suspect is innocent until he is found guilty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u13	Now, of course, if there are exculpatory statements that are not in the file, it is very difficult for the court to determine whether there are exculpatory statements. That is why I asked the question, because unfortunately it sometimes happens in practice. I don't want to say it's a shave and a sleaze. Should we not, in practice, send a clear signal to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police, who produce the files, that exculpatory statements should always be included in the file, so some sort of behavior rule?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u14	For this, of course, the basis of the work is that everything is well in the file itself. I have checked with my colleague whether there are very compelling signs that this happens often and regularly. I did not get a "yes" back on that question, so I understand that my colleague does not immediately see the need to make a broad appeal. This is independent of the fact that, of course, it must be carefully secured that exculpatory and incriminating information is in files where it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u15	Do I understand that we do not make a general recommendation towards legal practice that care should be taken to ensure that these exculpatory statements are in the file?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u16	What I understand is that my colleague does not intend to do so at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u17	We have just received a book in one of the breaks, Operation Raven of the couple Knoops. It's about Julio Poch's case. From that book, but also from other cases such as the Deventer murder case, it appears that in the Netherlands, the Public Prosecutor's Office does not make those exculpatory statements in the file. That is why I am sorry to hear the Minister for Legal Protection say: I see no reason to pass that on. In fact, we are getting signals from legal practice that it is actually happening. That's worrying when you're talking about the right to a fair trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u18	As I myself have understood, this is, of course, an important responsibility of the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the end, the judge will see to it that the D.A. does this carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u19	Finally, Mr. Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u20	Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to record this again with her colleagues and perhaps to elaborate on this in the form of a letter to the First Chamber, so that we can put it back on the agenda to have a follow-up discussion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u21	I understand the importance that Mr Dittrich is putting forward. We see the importance of a fair trial. If things don't go well in that, then it's everyone's responsibility to pick that up. As far as the Deventer murder case is concerned, I cannot at the moment fully assess the aspects that have been raised with the Minister in previous debates. I will not therefore give a letter to this Chamber at this time, not even on this particular case. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the harshness clause on legal aid for suspects of crimes committed abroad. Providing adequate legal aid in criminal proceedings, which was also given by Mr Dittrich on behalf of Mr Nicolaï, to... is first of all part of the general legal obligation of the country in which the prosecution takes place. This is a fundamental principle of justice laid down in Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. It is important to uphold that principle. This is also happening in many countries. Article 12 (1) of the Legal Aid Act limits the right to legal aid financed to legal interests in the Netherlands. That is understandable in itself, because we do not want to finance a criminal case with criminal charges in Spain, for example, and the defendant is tried there as well. The assessment of whether the legal interest lies in the Dutch legal sphere must be made on a case-by-case basis and requires tailor-made work. However, it is important to note that the Legal Assistance Board has an inherent derogation from Article 4:84 of the General Administrative Law Act. If, for example, the Council has laid down law-interpreting rules by means of working instructions, it may derogate from them under special circumstances. So there is an action perspective in this area. I agree with Mr Dittrich that the information provided by the Public Prosecutor's Office on criminal justice must be given careful attention. For this purpose, the Public Prosecutor's Office has also drawn up rules in the Information Note on Search and Prosecution. The limitation of the provision of information on criminal matters therefore lies in ensuring the right to a fair trial. The Public Prosecutor's Office should act according to that designation and should always check whether it maintains the guarantees of a fair trial, including in public communications. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay-Timmerman said that she still had a number of questions about the wording in that context. She said that this wording would be far less extensive than the wording in Article 47 of the Charter. The provision in Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is very comprehensive. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has already noted that. We have chosen not to include in Article 17, second paragraph, of the Constitution an exhaustive list of all elements of the right to a fair trial. That really has to do, as I said to Mr Talsma, with the austerity of our Constitution. The elements are general, fundamental, formulated in our Constitution. That is why we did it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u22	Does the Minister mean that this sober definition of "right to a fair trial" implicitly includes all the elements listed in Article 47 of the Charter at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u23	Yes. In the end, the fair process includes everything, but we have formulated it soberly. It may be appropriate to clarify the following: a number of elements mentioned in Article 47 of the Charter can be found in a number of other places. The right to legal aid is enshrined in Article 18 of the Constitution; that court cases are public is enshrined in Article 121 of the Constitution. Mr President, this was a small trip with regard to the wording. I should have mentioned that earlier in the speech, but it was a good thing that I did, because the fair process contains many different elements. One of the elements included is what Mr Talsma said: the right of suspects to be present in large criminal cases. The transport of suspects to major criminal cases is not covered by the surveillance and security system. But so does Mr Talsma from his background. However, measures may be taken by the local authority in the context of the system at hearing locations. As my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security has pointed out, a strengthening of the system has been used to monitor and secure the system. This will strengthen capacities and explore how existing capacity can be deployed smarter, flexible and innovative, for example through the deployment of other public and private parties. Of course, it is also true that defence is currently providing assistance. The aim is therefore also to ensure that the pressure exerted by the available "guarding and securing" capacity can be relieved as far as possible by doing so in other ways. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Schalk also asked for access to legal aid. For example, are there any blockades in terms of cuts in social lawyers or in terms of registry costs? I agree with Mr Schalk that good legal aid is really crucial for access to justice. In order to make the system of subsidised legal aid future-proof, a system renewal was launched in 2018. The Minister is still working on that at the moment. The system must be there by 2025; that is the commitment. So it is a rather robust operation that is being carried out by my colleagues in this context. Mr. Chairman. What about the registry rights? That's what Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked. The amendment of the Constitution has no impact on the Registry's rights. In order to ensure access to civil law for persons with limited financial resources, a fixed low rate is provided for them. The Minister is working on a proposal to reduce registry fees from 1 January 2024. That is what the Minister is doing. That's another minister; I don't mean myself. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dittrich asked whether I would be prepared to investigate whether, when the government is a trial party, a remote organisation of the Ministry of Justice and Security is considering whether funded legal aid can be allocated. In addition, the Legal Assistance Board is, of course, an independent administrative body, as provided for in the Framework Act. This also means that the Legal Assistance Council is not hierarchically subordinate to the Minister. I have also checked whether there is any designation in the institutions. That may or may not be the case with a Zbo. In this case, that is not the case. It has really been chosen to place this independent administrative body at a distance from the Minister and to ensure that they can form an independent opinion on the basis of their specific expertise. I also understand that there is strict, regulatory implementation in accordance with the framework law. This means that the Legal Assistance Council really operates independently in this area. Mr. Chairman. I come to the end of answering questions about a fair trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u24	The electoral college.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u25	Yes, I'm sure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u26	One more question about that part. In my first term I also asked for Dutch prisoners abroad. Are they frequently visited in accordance with the commitments made to the Second and First Chambers, as was agreed at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u27	I've been asking what the frequency of the visit is about. Visits of prisoners abroad take place one to a maximum of four times a year. When it comes to Western countries, it is intended to take place at least once a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u28	That's right; that's the general rule. From practice we get signals that people are sometimes skipped for years, while they do want to have visitors. My question was, are there any white spots? If so, where are they? What do we do to stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u29	In that context, it would also be supportive of my colleague for Legal Protection or my colleague for Justice and Security if those signals were sent to ministers themselves. Then they can actually pick it up. I do not know whether this has been exchanged with them in an earlier debate or whether they are more recent signals; I ask Mr Dittrich through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u30	The answer to that question is that unfortunately, over the last 20 years, it has occasionally turned out to have gone wrong. I don't want to pretend at all that this is rough and rough, but it's very important for someone who has years of prison time abroad and who wants to serve the sentence in the Netherlands to have a WOTS request and such a request that he also has contact with the Dutch embassy, that he is visited and that they can discuss strategies. Sometimes that doesn't happen. That's what we get letters about. It is really important for the Minister responsible to ensure that this is done properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u31	If these signals were to enter this Chamber in concrete terms, I could only ask the Chamber to ensure that these specific signals are sent to my colleague and, knowing the Chamber, it will do the same. I agree with Mr Dittrich that contact with the embassy abroad is important, also from a humanitarian point of view. Then the electoral college. Thank you for the contributions of several Members on this issue. We've talked extensively about the electoral college. I agree with the Members that this is an imbalance, that the Dutch who live abroad can influence the European Parliament and the House of Representatives, but not the composition of the First Chamber. Mr Otten put it quite graphically, also in his contribution to one of the interruptions, that people abroad are sometimes really seen as ambassadors and are regularly questioned about current political developments, perhaps even more often than in the Netherlands itself, so that there is certainly a connection with what is happening in politics. The position of the First Chamber is also important, because that co-legislator and no law will pass without a positive answer in the First Chamber. So in that sense, I also say to Mr Schalk, what the First Chamber does really makes a difference for people abroad, if only because legislation in the Netherlands can also affect people abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u32	I'm thrilled that the Secretary of State has so much influence over the First Chamber. My experience is that in the Netherlands people hardly know what the Upper House is doing. If they knew that very well abroad, it would be a new phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u33	That is what citizenship education is for, to improve it. No. I say to Mr Schalk that the Upper House is certainly not known to everyone in the Netherlands and beyond, but that there are certainly people who can see it. Of course, it is important that if people can vote for the First Chamber, there may also be more interest or interest in what the Upper Chamber does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u34	It's like the Netherlands. People can't vote for the First Chamber; only Provincial States members and soon the members of the electoral college. That stalemate is still very complicated. Let's get back to the point the minister made. I understand very well that if a Dutchman is somewhere, in any country, and something strange happens in the Netherlands, then every Dutchman is questioned and is some sort of ambassador. But whether you should immediately draw the conclusion that there should be a separate electoral college for that step, I am not going to go through that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u35	In reply to Mr Schalk's questions, too, there is a certain imbalance and inequality in the system that we can eliminate with the electoral college. There is a group of Dutch who has no influence on the composition of the First Chamber and therefore on a part of our national parliament. That's where the core is. We want to remove this imbalance with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u36	When it comes to this imbalance, let us first look at the imbalance that we may have in the Caribbean, for example. This First Chamber is at some point, on a number of subjects, also on the three parts there. Also about Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius, but the residents of the other three cannot say anything about the Upper Chamber. We are talking about them, because we visited them recently. In other words, shouldn't that be solved before what we're doing all over the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u37	Part of the coalition agreement is, of course, also to look at this. The Secretary of State for the Interior is also having the first talks on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u38	I also come across people across the border who are Dutch, but which I think is: glad that you have no job and that you do not represent our country. They are not all ambassadors to us, at least in the good sense of the word, because I have our ambassadors very high. Is it necessary to take the position that we need to fix or improve something, because we did it wrong? In fact, I agree with the SGP colleague, who is a special alliance, that nothing has gone wrong. We chose this system once. We can change it. The Minister says, "Everything is changeable." It's okay. It's okay. But this is where more coherence should be sought. If you live abroad, you can't vote for the city council either. I know that many people abroad sometimes have more with their village and their congregation than with the country. You can't vote for the county either. And why should migrants only vote for the city council, but not for the county? While a municipality is located in a province and the province does a lot of adjacent policies. I don't have an opinion on all this yet, but I really think: wouldn't it be better to see this in conjunction? We're not gonna do that now, because we're gonna handle this bill, of course. But now the suggestion remains that we did something wrong once and that we are doing it right now. We give a right to Dutch people outside the border. There's nothing against that. My party, the SP, is very much in favour of democratization at all levels, but then you could also look at more. It's not like we're really dealing with a system error here. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u39	I also use the word "unbalancedness." We can get that out. You make choices in the system. As a result, I would not directly describe it as a mistake, but as a reduction of balance. Dutch people abroad can vote at the European Parliament and at the House of Representatives. It is balanced to let them do the same for the First Chamber, because they have an influence on both co-legislators through a stepped system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u40	I wouldn't dare call it unbalanced. It was a balance that was established in this way. There was a reason why it was once said that the First Chamber was elected by the Provincial States. Gradually, we're all gonna find that very old-fashioned. In 1848 it was actually an excuse not to make the First Chamber so important, but there is also logic in it. You can talk about whether you still share that logic and say: we have provinces and they determine the Upper House. As such, this is not unbalanced. I have said that my group is not in favour of this proposal, because we think it is too artificial to introduce something that is reasonable in itself, namely the right to vote for the Dutch Supreme Court. But for that, we have a lot of things to do. As a result, it seems as if we were doing something wrong, whereas I would rather think of the migrants, who should actually have more voting rights. Then why are the municipalities and the provinces not treated the same as the First Chamber? By the way, the First Chamber is quite well known. When I'm asked what I'm doing, I say I'm in the First Chamber. People say, "Oh, interesting." They'll think, of course, that's gonna cost a lot of money, and I'll have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u41	I think your question is clear now. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u42	I find it interesting in Mr Kox's reasoning that he says: in 1848 it didn't come in, because the First Chamber remained less important. But maybe I misunderstand. A contrario then comes to the argument that if you do, the First Chamber becomes more important. But maybe I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u43	Mr Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u44	I don't have a great-great-great-great-grandfather who was there at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u45	No, me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u46	Some of us here have that privilege, we know recently. But I've always understood that Troelstra... Troelstra? Thorbecke! Troelstra was not so successful with the Constitution. I always understood that Thorbecke actually wanted to get rid of the First Chamber in 1848, which we had received at the request of the Belgians. Because he couldn't, he made something up. He thought, "You know what, I'll let that First Chamber just go through the provinces, kicked, elected, and the Second Chamber directly." So it was also a construction back then. I would have voted against that at the time. Now, with this right to vote, it's another construction. That's why I don't feel so senang. Maybe that's not in the spirit of Thorbecke, but in the spirit of 1848.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u47	In that sense, Mr Kox simply has a different perspective on how we weigh this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u48	When I speak to Belgians abroad and they talk about their Senate, they actually say the same thing that Thorbecke said at the time: their Senate lacks land and purpose. That Senate meets six times a year and it doesn't really talk about anything, so it only costs a lot of money and it doesn't make any sense. That is actually what we are dealing with. We are now in a situation where a proposal is being made to remove, according to the Minister, an 'disbalance'. But there is another imbalance instead. The imbalance in the system is not so much that those people abroad cannot cast that vote, but that there is an indirect election in it. So my question to the Minister is: if you were to use the means of a constitutional change, would it not have made much more sense to immediately take that step of direct election or perhaps another step towards the abolition of the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u49	No. The cabinet has no intention of abolishing the First Chamber, because the interest of the First Chamber lies in sound constitutional review, in the value of the legislative quality and in the feasibility of the laws. Mr Van Hattem has presented a number of examples from which we can conclude together that the role of the First Chamber is important, for example when it comes to supplementing legislation. That's the value of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u50	Despite the fact that we still lack ground and purpose here, we occasionally do useful work. Otherwise, I wouldn't be so busy with this either. But that's not the point. It's about imbalance. Now one imbalance is exchanged for another. As I said in my speech, people living in the Dutch provinces pay for motor vehicles tax, they have to deal with wind turbines and they may have to pay a resident tax when all kinds of plans are on the table. The people who live abroad don't have to. The point is: these people are only given an electoral college in order to elect the First Chamber, while there is nothing to the contrary. Why has the fundamental choice been made to eliminate this so-called imbalance and to replace and maintain another imbalance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u51	I see that it is more balanced, because the Dutch who live abroad get a vote not only for the co-legislator of the House of Representatives, but also for the other co-legislator, the First Chamber, who ultimately reaches the final stage of joint decisions or legislation. In this the First Chamber sometimes has a very explicit role, not only in terms of whether or not legislation should be passed, but also, for example, in the case of a novelle or otherwise. In that sense you can say that the influence, kicked and just as with the Provincial States, of the Dutch who live abroad is equal to that of the Dutch who live in the Netherlands. These are Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u52	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u53	It is true that it is Dutch, but would it not have made much more sense, if you were to use the horse's means of a constitutional change, to get that kick out? If we're gonna get to work, do it right at once. Then the imbalance is out for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u54	That would be a pretty big overhaul of the system that Mr Thorbecke laid down in 1848, perhaps reluctantly, if I understood Mr Kox, but with care and clarity. Then the Second and First Chambers would be elected in the same way. The question then is whether this change is accompanied by a change in the character of the First Chamber and whether there will eventually be a distinction between the two Chambers. Then again the question is what that means for the First Chamber. I wouldn't be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u55	I would like to support the Minister in part, because the comparison with the province and the municipality is a bit of a fallacy. There are very different things involved. What the municipality and the province are about, is far less directly relevant to Dutch people living abroad. But there is another point where this imbalance is very important. It has been pointed out in several ways. Perhaps the Minister will go into that more specifically. If a Dutchman lives on Saba, he can vote for the Upper House. Quite rightly, because what we decide here is also of concern to them in many cases. If that Dutchman lives in Florida, he gets to vote for the Upper House. Rightly so, because what we decide here is sometimes what the Dutchman is about. If that Dutchman lives on Sint-Maarten, say halfway between Saba and Florida, he can't vote. That is an imbalance that remains. The argument given is that they have their own parliament, but of course that argument is not entirely valid. This Parliament is not about matters that we are voting on here in the First Chamber and which may well be relevant to that Dutchman. My question is, therefore, how the Minister feels deeply about this imbalance which is now being maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u56	The way I think about it is a question of conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u57	A little less deep, but still.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u58	The inhabitants of the Caribbean countries, of course, also have a parliament. Sometimes you have to say to in-depth questions that you will return to it in second term. If the President will allow me to do so, I will do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u59	I will allow that, provided Mr Ganzevoort agrees, of course. It's his question. I see him nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u60	A number of substantive questions have been asked about the voting value determination. That is actually in the implementing legislation, but of course it has also been the subject of the debate at several times. I've had research done on the methods of calculating the voting value by Dr. Otjes. The voting value clause now contained in the legislative proposal before the House of Representatives complies as much as possible with Article 4 of the Constitution, the principle of proportionality. Thus, the voting value determination is designed as much as possible to match it and that there is a balance between the different voting values that exist in the provinces and also between the electoral colleges. Why is that bill, the implementing law, already in the Lower House? That is because the House of Representatives itself has already asked for this, because during the discussion it wanted to get an insight into the further elaboration and because it also thought it was important to implement the legislation quickly, of course in anticipation of the decision-making in the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Talsma indicated that the weight should not exceed the vote of a member of the Provincial States. For this purpose, the voting value per member of the Provincial States depends on the population in the Netherlands. So it's different between the provinces. The voting value of the electoral college member is based on the number of voters registered for the election of the electoral college instead of the number of inhabitants. A correction factor shall be applied to the number that follows. It is based on the ratio between the number of inhabitants and the number of voters there. This means that 80 registered non-residents for the electoral election result in an approximately as high voting value for the electoral college as for the voting value of a province with 80,000 voters. Consequently, if you have a province with more than 80,000 inhabitants, the voting values of the electoral college are therefore lower than those of another province, because the calculation of doctor Otjes is based on the population. The note following the report of the implementing law also contains an extensive table where this is further described.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u61	Then I will read that note with particular attention. As far as I am concerned, the first part of the answer was not surprising. It's a well-known fact. I was particularly concerned about this proportionality. Walking this way, I heard the Minister go into that. I understand her answer as an invitation to read the note on the occasion of the report again. That's what I'm gonna do. But is the proportionality that I asked for as far as the Minister is concerned assured? To be honest, that is the concern of my group when it comes to implementing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u62	This proportionality is assured, in my opinion, because ultimately the calculation is about the population and the electoral college about the number of voters registered for the election in question. This ensures that the relationship between the provinces and the electoral college is in balance, because you ultimately assume the number of inhabitants. So to give a picture: a larger province like South Holland has a much heavier weighting in its effect on the composition of the First Chamber, because there are many more inhabitants than, for example, the 80,000 voters registered for the electoral college non-residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u63	I have two things, because the Minister went through two subjects very quickly. A word about balance, the number of voters. This can be many times higher in the world minus the Netherlands than in a number of larger provinces in the Netherlands. If I have to believe Mr Otten, there are about 1 million Dutch people outside the borders. That could be a very unbalanced situation. That's the first thing. The second question I have in connection with the minister's piece is about the rush and the pace. We have just had a rather extensive debate on the Environment Act. That's why the minister had to wait. A lot of parties in this Chamber say: "Don't run so fast. We must first see if it is possible and then take the next step." Here I have the feeling that the House of Representatives is already taking care of the execution, while we are still debating here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u64	First of all, I do not share Mr Schalk's concern. Why don't I share it? For the Lower House, the number of people who live abroad and who are registered in my opinion is around 80,000, 90,000. That's the first thing. Then the second. One can weigh different ways of looking at the drive of the Chamber to get to work quickly with implementing legislation. Personally, I think it is a good thing for the House of Representatives to say: move quickly, Minister, because we want to get an insight and treat it properly. My expectation with regard to implementing legislation is that, depending on the decision-making process in this Chamber, achieving the election in 2023 will be a challenge, because the Chamber will have to make a lot of progress. But it also takes time to implement a new electoral college. I actually expect that, if this bill is adopted, we will not have the electoral college in office before the election of 2023 with regard to implementing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u65	In that context, I would like to ask the Minister if she can outline a timetable for what is necessary to properly rig the electoral colleges so that people around the world understand what it is about. She doesn't have to say that now, but she might be able to come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u66	From my mind I say it's about...The city of The Hague carries it out. There's about four months in my head, but I'll get back to you in the second term. Then I can check to see if it's okay in my head. Mr. Chairman. A point made by Mr Van Hattem is the guarantee. What exactly is that about? As far as the electoral college is concerned, we are indeed in favour of a deposit of €225. I know Mr Van Hattem now in such a way that I think he reads all the pieces that come in about the same. So he has already taken note of the report. This is about the same amount as for the guarantee of municipalities. When it comes to the BES Islands, it's $225. I think this is a good amount to charge. Since it is in line with the other guarantees, I see no reason to deviate from that. Anyway, we're gonna have to deal with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u67	The point is that it is not in line with the deposit that has to be paid for provinces. That is the imbalance created by this. If I am a resident of a Dutch province at the Provincial State elections or.q. Finally, if I want to participate in the First Chamber elections, I will pay a higher deposit than a Dutchman who lives abroad, because that will be aligned with a municipality at once. So in that sense I think it is a strange construction that is being applied. I'd say equal monks, equal quitting. It's the same election, so it's just gonna have to be straightened out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u68	There are two reasons for doing so in this case as we have done now. Firstly, there are a limited number of voters. Secondly, the electoral college has only the task and function of electing the members of the First Chamber. That means that we have opted for a lower security deposit. So that's the reasoning behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u69	But then of course it is true that it is easier for that group even if it is a smaller group of people than for a resident of the Netherlands. When we talk about the Constitution, we are also talking about equal treatment for all citizens. I do not see why it should be a lower amount for those citizens at once. We could therefore say that we will also reduce the amount to one amount for the residents of our Dutch provinces. Is this also an option that could be considered by the Minister in implementing legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u70	The line of reasoning is now: the limited number of voters and the fact that the electoral college has only one task. That has been the starting point in this bill. I think we should look at the whole process of dealing with the bill. That has certainly been the motivation for me to do so and not to work with different amounts of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u71	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u72	The point is that different amounts are being worked out. My plea is right to make it one amount and to lower the deposit also for the Netherlands or to look for an average. Now you get the disproportionate situation that someone living abroad pays less than someone living in the Netherlands. I think that's just a very strange situation. My request to the Minister is to take this into account in implementing legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u73	I believe that this is an appeal to continue the debate. However, my starting point in dealing with the legislation is at least as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u74	I just heard the minister mention numbers. I took a look at the parliamentary elections of 2021. At that time there were 92,772 registered voters outside the Netherlands. So a lot of votes didn't come from that. It follows from the minutes that only 63,000 out of 89,000 votes have been counted, because they are often late. It's all very difficult. I hear from people from abroad that it's a lot of hassle to do that right. A law has recently been passed to change the ballot for foreign countries and the Netherlands. We voted against the Dutch ballot and voted in favour of the foreign ballot, precisely because we hear a lot of problems about this. By the way, new parties like Volt and Party for Animals score very well abroad. Mr. Schalk says that new, small parties don't have a chance, but I don't see that in the numbers. My feeling is that there is a need for much more than 92,000 people to do something with it, just that it's so much hassle that people just give up, because it's all a lot of work with a lot of forms and so on. To what extent does the Minister think that the new ballots could improve this? How come there's so many voices coming in late? Our question is: can this not be practically better arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u75	Agreed. This was also the subject of the debate we had on the introduction of the new ballot for choice from abroad. We want to see in the evaluation what effects this has in practice. A second proposal that was included was, in my view, a question that came from Mr Koole, which is the possibility of turning in the votes at an embassy or a post, which also changes the distance over the post of the vote cast. From there, the votes can then be forwarded to the Netherlands. We haven't applied it yet, but it's interesting to see if that changes anything, because it's closer and the voices may also come in here in The Hague as a whole. So let's see if that can bring about this change. I agree with Mr Otten that every vote is worth it. And any voice that eventually stays somewhere is bad for democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u76	A small announcement of order. I've already discussed this with you, Minister. At 6.30 p.m., I will suspend the sitting until 7.30 p.m. for a number of committee meetings and dinner breaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u77	Mr President, thank you. I am going to do my best to at least finish the questions about the fair trial before that time. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem asked about the procedure on declarations of support. Why not make the declarations of support electronically for the whole of the Netherlands? It has not been done so far because of the recruitment of statements of support. It is much more difficult for Dutch people abroad to obtain these declarations of support, because they have to arrange it through an embassy or consulate. They must therefore travel a certain distance. This means that we have chosen to create the alternative to a digital declaration of support for non-residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u78	Mr Van Hattem has a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u79	I had indeed read in the note on the report that this is the Minister's approach. But the point remains, as is the case with the deposit, that it is now better facilitated for Dutch people abroad than for residents of the Netherlands themselves. This also gives you an imbalance, when we should be based on equal treatment. I agree with the Minister that we absolutely must prevent the recruitment of votes. But if there is that risk now in the Netherlands, we should not apply it abroad either. You always have to rule out that risk. My question is: can the Minister explain why an imbalance is being created in this case too? Wouldn't it be much better to make it much easier for Dutch people? This could also be done through an adaptation of these rules, which are currently quite rigid. People have to come to the town hall under office hours, sign there etc. et cetera et cetera. There are rather thresholds to do so, while it is made very easy abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u80	Your question is clear, I think. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u81	I agree with Mr Van Hattem that it is good to look at the candidacy procedure in a number of areas. The Election Council has recently given its opinion on this matter. One of the aspects of this opinion concerns the declarations of support. I still have to come up with a position on that advice from the Election Council. The Election Council proposes to see if it is possible to digitize it for the Netherlands. That's what I'm considering right now. I shall come back to that when I send that point of view to the two Chambers. This also applies to the fact that the renewal of democracy means that you must not stand still in these areas. But it has to be done carefully. And we don't want to recruit support statements. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem asked why the Temporary Law on Digital Discussion and Decision-making is taken as the basis. Experiences from practice with the Temporary Act digital deliberation and decision-making are often positive. That is why, on the basis of these positive experiences in shaping the digital meetings of the Choosing College, we have drawn on the experiences gained with digital meetings. Above all, Mr Van Hattem must understand me in such a way that we actually apply the lessons learned there in the legislative proposal, but that this is not related to that temporary law. The working methods of the temporary law seem to work in practice. On this basis, therefore, we have shaped the way in which meetings are held in this law. If the temporary law expires, it will have no effect on this bill. Mr. Chairman. Then the planned timetable. I've already talked about that. I don't expect to make it to 2023 anymore, but I'll come back in a moment to the prep time of the electoral college. I have promised Mr Schalk that I will do so in the second term. Mrs Baay-Timmerman had asked another question about the participation in registration for the electoral college. She asked: how is this prepared? I agree that we need to prepare voters abroad for their introduction. The City of The Hague will write to all voters who are already in the permanent registration, to inform them of this new registration option when it is ready. In addition, every Dutchman leaving the Netherlands receives, as is happening now, a personal letter requesting registration. If everything is adopted, there will also be a comprehensive information campaign to draw the electorate's attention to the electoral election. We do so through the channels that are already being used to inform voters abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u82	There is a short question from Mrs Baay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u83	Mr President, I have a very brief question. I just heard the Minister say that 2023 is probably not feasible. If so, does the Minister think that the information will be in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u84	Yeah, I expect so. The Hague also does this for the other voters abroad, of course, and has a lot of experience with this. They do so via the website, but also via the Emigration Fair and social media. So there is a lot of experience when it comes to informing voters abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u85	We have had a debate in which the biggest legislative process since 1848 has been rushed through with steam and boiling water and ridiculous speed, when nothing is done. This is a fairly simple change. Why can't this have already been implemented with the First Chamber elections of May 30, 2023? Apparently, the Surroundings Act can join this cabinet in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u86	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u87	Why can't we go a little faster? This isn't that complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u88	When it comes to implementing legislation, this is also the reason why the note following the report has already been sent to the House of Representatives this week. But then it's about the treatment in the Lower House and then it has to be dealt with in this Upper Chamber of course. I'm not going over the Rooms' agenda. I do not want to give the impression that I expect both Chambers to have dealt with this by 1 October or 1 November at the latest, so that we can introduce it at the elections in 2023. If it does, it's another story. But I also think it's a little inappropriate for me to take an advance on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u89	It's 6:30. As I announced, I'm going to suspend for dinner until 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u90	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the six legislative proposals for amending the Constitution at second reading. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I was indeed in the process of answering the questions surrounding the electoral college. A number of questions are still open. One of the questions is about the evaluation. Is the Election Council involved in this? Yes, the evaluation advice of the Election Board will, of course, be involved in the evaluation that Home Affairs is about to carry out. If, on the basis of the evaluation of the first electoral college, it is concluded that improvements are possible, the government will consider how these improvements can be made. Of course, that's just very important to do. Mr. Chairman. Another question was from Mr Ganzevoort. The advantage of a dinner suspension is that at the same time a question can be examined further. The end of my answer is still true: the Secretary of State for the Interior is discussing this with the Caribbean countries. Let me give you a little more introduction on this point. There is an important difference between Dutch living in the Caribbean countries and Dutch living abroad. Mr Ganzevoort knows that himself. The Dutch in the Caribbean have the right to vote for one of the parliaments of the Kingdom. Each of the countries has a representative office in the States. The States represent the inhabitants of the Caribbean countries. The States, together with the national governments, make the laws that apply in those countries. Through these governments and states there is also a representation in the formation of the national laws. Of course, none of this applies to Dutch people abroad. Some may have the right to vote in another parliament, but that varies from one person to another and from one country to another. That is why it has always been the starting point, both in the Constitution and in the Kieswet, that the inhabitants of the Caribbean countries do not have to have the right to vote in the Lower House, other than Dutch people abroad. We have also respected this principle in the constitutional change we are discussing today. The coalition agreement, on which I have already said something, includes the need for the Caribbean countries to have a proportional vote in the Lower House if proposals for a state law are to be dealt with there. In doing so, the cabinet also recognizes that there is still a democratic deficit in the Kingdom in this area. There are several ways to solve that. The Secretary of State for the Interior is currently conducting the initial talks with the Caribbean countries. That is the current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u92	This is not quite an unexpected answer, because I do know this part. But there are all kinds of things about Dutch people who live in the Caribbean countries. There are people there who live there for a while. There are people who live there their whole lives, for example because they have a Dutch passport but are also just Aruban. So that is still a broad category. The extent to which Dutch legislation, which we are dealing with here, for example, on pensions, I mention only what affects people, is therefore out of the picture. That's not about state laws or consensual laws. This is also about very specific country laws, of the country of the Netherlands, which still affect them. They also have no influence on this through, for example, their Aruban parliament. That's my point. Isn't that an imbalance compared to the Dutchman who lives on Saba or in Florida?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u93	This concerns the category of laws that affect the Dutch who live on the islands, but for which it is not a state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u94	That is not a state law, nor is it a law that is a country law in, for example, Aruba, Curaçao or Sint-Maarten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u95	Yes. Then we're talking about a specific category of laws. That could be pension legislation and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u96	For example, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u97	Then I'll come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u98	It is actually all the laws that affect Dutch people abroad. These are not the laws on spatial planning. They don't hit the people in New York, or anywhere. A large part of the laws that affect Dutch people abroad will also affect the Dutch who live temporarily, or longer, in the Caribbean countries. That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u99	Yes, and the question is whether the breadth of the talks that the Secretary of State is having is similar to that. I will come back to that in the second term, because I do not have that information now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u100	Just in the context of good legislation. When I hear it like that, the Minister says that there should be a possibility of choosing the House of Representatives as well. But then you'll create another inequality, won't you? Those national laws are also coming through the Upper Chamber. Those people can't vote for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u101	They do, of course, have a parliament in the countries where they can influence themselves. Well, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u102	That's true. They have their own parliament, so that's where they vote, for example, on such a state law. But it is also accepted here in the Second and in the First Chamber, so one way or another you create an inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u103	The basis of the imbalance is simply the large number of people living abroad. That really is a considerable number of people, as Mr Otten has pointed out. To counter this imbalance, we are putting into effect this bill. So that's the basis for doing this. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk asked a fair question about the implementation, but he also had a question about the accumulation of the laws when it comes to the First Chamber election in recent years. The starting point of the electoral colleges is that voters who may be affected by legislation also have an influence on their composition. Therefore, the proposals for the elections for the Caribbean Netherlands and the electoral college non-residents to which Mr Schalk refers are also necessary. Earlier voting behaviour in other elections of these groups of voters has not been considered in this bill. It's up to the voter to decide what he's voting on. The electorate's voting behaviour can also fluctuate, as we know from previous elections. In addition, the other two changes mentioned by Mr Schalk for the Eerste Kamerkeering join the rules for most of the other elections in our Election Act. For each of the changes mentioned, good arguments can therefore be put forward. In this context, I also welcome these changes in any case. But I can see from the conversation I have with Mr Schalk that he really is looking at it in a different way. Mr Schalk asked what the precise timetable for implementing the implementing legislation and the electoral college was. Mr Dittrich asked for this too. I told you I thought it was about four months, but it's about six months in the end, because the electoral college has to be set up in advance. That should also have time to do his job. If you were to recalculate from mid 2023, you'd be out by mid-September. At least you want to be clear about the legislation. There's two tracks in there. The prudent track is that, of course, legislation must first be fully completed in both chambers in order to really have the assurance that the implementing legislation can be implemented. Then mid-September is just a very short journey of time. That is preferable, because it will give the voters the certainty that the change can just happen. At the moment you would choose a construction in which this was completed in the middle of September in the House of Representatives and the risk that perhaps the First Chamber will not agree, while you are already starting to prepare, the risk is of course that the First Chamber will decide that there is unexpectedly a case of "preventing evil." What exactly was it like, Mr. Van den Berg? Then you started something in the performance which eventually doesn't happen and what also confuses the voter. That's how I see it. That also makes me say the timeline is so tight. For the city of The Hague, they still have to adapt their systems. But it's mostly about setting up the electoral college.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u104	Before the evening break, I heard the Minister speak of "October" or "until November 1st." I understand that the answer she now gives during the evening break has been completely checked. So that's the final date. So we can forget to take the month of October for this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u105	Yes. I said in the first part of the exchange of views that I thought it was four months, but I wanted to check it out. Turns out that's six months, and then you come out early in time. Mr Otten asked whether the judicial function should not be removed from the Council of State. I believe that there is always consistency in Mr Otten's questions on this issue. From the cabinet's perspective, the independence and impartiality of the Administrative Justice Division are beyond doubt, as it is completely independent and has no link with other administrative bodies, like any other court in the Netherlands. The European Court of Human Rights also concluded in the Kleyn judgment that there was no conflict with Article 6 of the ECHR. It is therefore not our intention at the moment to do so with institutional changes in administrative justice in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u106	When I prepared my contribution, I was intrigued by the intelligent wording of the 2012 Lokin-Sassen motion, of which, among other things, Mr Koole was co-signator. Maybe that had something to do with it; I don't know. It was made very clear at the time that Article 6 of the ECHR does not deal with administrative justice. Since that is of great importance, that motion called for it to be incorporated into the Constitution. It is precisely the words "administrative fines" and so on that are also mentioned in this motion. Now I happen to know that Mrs Lokin-Sassen has been promoted to work with Mr Scheltema, former Secretary of State for the Interior and former D66 executive, who has always made this an important point. If I give a legal interpretation of the Lokin-Sassen motion, I think this was indeed a very important background to that motion. It says in that motion that Article 6 of the ECHR does not provide for this, so it is true what the Minister says: that does not make sense. That's right. That motion had also concluded, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u107	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u108	Then how are you going to implement that motion? We also discussed this with Minister Weerwind and the Minister of Justice last week. The judges of the Administrative Court of the Council of State are ultimately appointed by the Council of Ministers, albeit through a process of co-optation, but this is something to be noted. I would like to hear a more in-depth reply from the Minister on the implementation of the Lokin-Sassen/Koole motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u109	The picture could be created that nothing would have happened since Mrs Lokin-Sassen's motion, supported by Mr Koole, had been tabled and adopted. But in recent years, there have been extensive discussions, including with the various judicial authorities, about the future of the judiciary, even in such a way that the highest courts in 2017 have insisted on rest in this area. Furthermore, I know that there was also a motion in the Lower House a while ago, which called again for a split, but it also did not receive a majority in the Lower House. Given that the principle of this cabinet is that the independence and impartiality of the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State is sufficiently guaranteed, the Cabinet does not intend to take any further steps in this respect. So it did not remain quiet after that motion, because there has certainly been a very active discussion and exchange of views for a number of years, eventually calling for the present landscape to remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u110	Okay. Our group continues to believe with many others, not the first of the best, Presidents of the Supreme Court and so on, that this is a looming error. I now hear that there must be peace in this area. This is a sharp contrast with the area of spatial planning, where the Environment Act should mainly cause unrest. I note that there must be peace in one area and unrest in the other. We'll know after today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u111	I think the common denominator is that it's important to clarify. This applies both to this and to the Environment Act. By the way, I would like to point out that all judges in the Netherlands are appointed by royal decree, so in the end it is a matter of signing by our king.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u112	I would remind the Minister that it was not just Pia Lokin-Sassen's motion. In 2010, this Chamber almost unanimously adopted the Duthler motion on how to integrate the Administrative Law Department of the Council of State into our normal legal system. As far as I know, we have never withdrawn that motion, so it is still awaiting implementation. It was widely supported. This is also discussed in the Lower House, but perhaps the Minister can come back in the second term on how she points out the motion at that time. That was the explanatory opinion of this Chamber. It hasn't been revised since then, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u113	The same applies to this, as I have just said, namely that this discussion has been wide-ranging in recent years. Eventually, in 2017, the conclusion of the judicial colleges was to ensure that we also pursue the standing practice. In view of the decision-making process in the Chamber, in which the motion has not been adopted, we shall at least continue the current situation on this subject. I understand that it was also discussed with my other colleagues last week. That's how I got the questions about the electoral college. Mr. Chairman. I come to the general provision. I will begin with a somewhat more general introduction, given the breadth of the questions and the thorough debate that has taken place. I will take a number of aspects of the questions that have been asked. I shall then turn to a number of more specific questions. Mr. Chairman. The text of the general provision has been discussed in detail, but I repeat once again: 'The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. Before I go into the substantive explanatory statement, I would like to point out that the Constitution, fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law are of course very important to the cabinet. With regard to the principles of our state system, this is an important moment. It is not self-evident that we live in a democratic rule of law. It is not a natural law that the democratic rule of law will always exist. That is why we must seize every opportunity to promote its importance. Today I find such a moment. Because by also laying down these principles of our state system in the Constitution, we clearly state what we stand for: The Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state in which fundamental rights are respected. As you know, this proposal also implements the English motion of your Chamber, which has also been supported by other Members, and we have prepared such a general provision. The history of this has already begun in 2012. I would also like to thank the groups who have already expressed their support for this this morning. I also understand the questions that exist. After all, it has also been an extensive discussion in the House of Representatives. The purpose of this general provision is threefold. One. It aims to emphasise that fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law are the guiding principles for all public action. Two. It aims to lay down the core principles of the state system in our Constitution. Three. It also aims to express that the Constitution guarantees those principles. Interestingly, although the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law where fundamental rights are of great importance, this has not yet been mentioned in our basic political document. With the general provision we are going to do so for the first time. Furthermore, the general provision stresses that the Constitution and, consequently, the constitution provider must guarantee the core principles of our state system. The legal consequence is that the content of the Constitution and thus our constitutional system must be in line with fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. These principles underpin the current legal system. The general provision therefore does not require any further amendment to the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say to Mr Schalk that this is a general provision of a sober and business nature rather than a preamble of a cultural historical nature. It does not affect the nature of the Constitution, because it simply fits in with the Constitution. It is also important that the general provision is legally binding, while a preamble is only explanatory or evocative. The English motion has also expressly requested this. It called for a proposal for a general provision, not a preamble, following the opinion of the Constitution Committee. That is why it is important for me to say this to Mr Talsma of the Christian Union, who has been elected as a standard address for the constitution, to guarantee the Constitution in accordance with its legal and constitutional function. Could the wording have been different? There was an enormous exchange of views on this at first reading. This was an amendment which I believe was tabled by Mr Koopmans of the VVD in the House of Representatives at the time. Among other things, the groups of SGP, 50PLUS and ChristenUnion questioned whether other notions deserved to be included in the general provision. The general provision has been changed by amendment. The order has been reversed, with fundamental rights being paramount and democracy and the rule of law being integrated into the concept of the democratic rule of law. In the House of Representatives it is also explicitly stated that the merger strongly underlines its fundamental coherence. In the end, the Minister at the time also supported this. Does this mean that our core principles of fundamental rights and democratic rule of law have been strengthened in an infinite way and are therefore a panacea? No, I wouldn't want to create an overexcited expectation. However, the aim of the general provision is to give the democratic rule of law a place in our basic document, also as a basis for the co-legislator to abide by it in public action. I say to those who have pointed this out in the debate that I have become more aware in recent years that it is a good thing to remind the government, and therefore me as a minister, of this. The childcare allowance affair has shown that as a government, as a cabinet, we have not acted in accordance with the principles of the democratic rule of law and the fundamental principles that we laid down in our Constitution. That is why this task at the beginning of the Constitution is really important to remind ourselves of it and to ensure that we implement it in our actions and in our behaviour. I would also like to say with Mr Koole that the symbolic value of promoting the core principles should not be underestimated. It is of lasting importance that the Constitution should indicate the principles on which our state system is based and that the rest of the Constitution should be read from whatever perspective. It's not self-evident. In this context, Mr Doornhof specifically asked whether it would make sense: is this normative value sufficient and is it not ultimately superfluous? I'm just gonna take it all together. Mr Doornhof said it a little more eloquence, more eloquent than me, but that is how I get it. For me, this general provision has a normative value in several ways. Firstly, a limited general provision entails the repeal, amendment or codification of provisions of the Constitution which are incompatible with fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. For example, the deletion of Article 1 of the Constitution would not be in line with the general provision. However, for example, the general provision also has an added value in relation to Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. On the basis of this Article, the States-General must adopt treaties derogating from the Constitution by a qualified majority. The introduction of a general provision means that treaties must not be concluded which are contrary to fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. I also say, with Mr Koole, that the symbolic value should not be underestimated. It is strange that the Constitution is nowhere now, and I would like to say this once again that we are living in a democratic rule of law. If we do, everyone will know what we stand for. Mr. Chairman. The question, including Mr Schalk, is whether such preambles do not fundamentally affect the nature of the Constitution as such. The legal consequence of the general provision is that the content of the Constitution, and thus our constitutional system, must be consistent with the principles underlying the constitutional system of law. It is not a preamble but a general provision. Consciously, therefore, was chosen for that sober formulation. In this sense, it is in line with the nature of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u114	I hear the Minister say that the deletion of Article 1 of the Constitution would be contrary to that general provision, and that it would therefore not be possible. But to what extent is it still possible to amend Article 1 of the Constitution, given this general provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u115	That is possible when it is in the spirit of the democratic rule of law. Part of the rule of law is that you also respect and defend the rights of minorities. They are, of course, also largely based on the principle that discrimination is prohibited and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u116	Yes, there can be that starting point, but of course you will have a very strong definition discussion: what can still be in it and what can't? There is now another proposal to amend it and extend it further. If this general provision is to be a kind of guarantee, then it is actually a far more far-reaching whole than what I believe has been indicated so far in the legislative process with regard to this general provision. I do not think that this bindingness, the clamp on specific constitutional articles, has been dealt with as such before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u117	I'm looking at that differently. I come to the question put by Mr Koole and Mr Schalk: do we all mean the same by 'democratic rule of law'? It is therefore a question of defining the concept of the democratic rule of law. As a government, we have deliberately chosen not to give a specific coloration of the concept of democracy in the general provision. Democracy takes the forms: parliamentary, representative, executive, indirect, formal, material, or any form. But that also applies to the rule of law. The rule of law concerns separation of powers, the principle of legality, the protection of fundamental rights and an independent judge. When it fits into the scope of these principles, it also fits into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u118	Then it still remains a very easy concept, and it is still difficult to give concrete value to such a general provision. I think that if we were to have a careful course of future constitutional changes, you would have an almost unsustainable discussion about what will and will not fall within that context. Because anyone can give that a different color and direction. I mentioned the examples in the debate: to what extent something is democratic and to what extent something is constitutional. That is, of course, very political and time-bound.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u119	No, I don't think so. On the contrary, I can see the strength of the fact that you make it clear once again that the Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state, that you have a rule of law in which you act as a government on the basis of the principle of legality, that there are laws below it, that you justify it, and that you do so in the situation where the majority adopt laws, but with respect for the guarantees of the minority. That is a very powerful starting point to base your decisions as a cabinet and as a co-legislator. I see it as a strengthening of a starting point that we all already have, but which we now have in our Constitution. What makes it even more necessary to see the urgency is that, in recent years, as a government, we have not respected the principles of the democratic rule of law, as Mr Van Hattem pointed out in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u120	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u121	That's exactly the problem. It is said that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The fact is that, in our current situation, we in the Netherlands would be a democratic constitutional state, an example of what a democratic constitutional state should be like, and that we also comply with all those elements. But I indicated in my speech that precisely because of these aspects we do not comply with it and that it is therefore very interpretable if you do or do not comply with a democratic rule of law. Just because we have so many unelected directors in this country, you may wonder to what extent it is democratic. I'd like to have a reflection on that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u122	It is precisely in an important task such as the suffering caused by child care payments that we, as a government, have the responsibility, under the values and principles of the democratic rule of law, to repair it, to improve and implement it. It is not for nothing that there are eighty different measures in many areas, but that there is also satisfaction for people. It looks at the quality of legislation and at greater openness in the government, thus giving concrete substance to action within the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u123	I would like to support Mr Van Hattem, because this is also a point I mentioned in the first term. This is not about the premium affair, but about the lack of democratically elected directors in the Netherlands. That's where we really fall out of tune internationally. We have twelve appointed Commissioners of the King. We cannot elect our own mayor as one of the very last countries in the world. One of the big problems of the so-called administrative culture that everyone has been talking about for a long time, but what I see little change in is that all these directors are appointed from the same circuit. That way, there will be no fresh blood, no new ideas and no new people. That is the key problem, and that makes the population so suspicious. There is insufficient democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u124	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u125	Does the Minister agree with me? And what's she gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u126	There are two aspects to this. If you look at the practice of appointing the current mayors, that is actually a mayor appointed by the council. Contrary to many years before, the council is really making a presentation in this. I do not know of any cases in recent years in which there have been derogations. Secondly, as a minister, I myself am in the process of drafting a proposal to strengthen participation at a decentralised level, in order to promote more active involvement of residents in the decision-making process of councils and elsewhere. So these are two different paths that are being walked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u127	Yeah, but that's totally inadequate, I think. Then where is this fear of just letting the population choose the mayor and governor of the province, as in the rest of the world? Who ever set up the fire and ambulance security regions? They are starting to take on more and more tasks, not at all legitimized. Mayor Bruls, no one chose that man. That is also one of the reasons why the Corona policy of the regions did not come off the ground. People don't feel any I.D. when these people are gonna tell us what to do. I think there should be more sense of urgency in the cabinet that this really needs to be speeded up. That is why I raised this issue, and not just me, but other speakers. I'd like to give that to the Minister anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u128	Thanks for giving me that. For this purpose, the office of mayor has also been investigated over the past period. These studies concluded that it is particularly important to strengthen local governance as a whole. Several municipalities, as well as mayors themselves, have indicated that they see it not so much in a different way of appointment, but rather in strengthening a number of aspects of local government, and I also support that, in order to give substance to a good, effective local government, which is also seen and recognised by residents as reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u129	I need a little help from the Minister to understand exactly what the proposal is about. I hear that the debate is always about whether the wording that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law is correct, whether it is true as a statement and so on. There are indeed a lot of questions to ask. But I read in the proposal that it says, "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law." My question to the Minister is whether this is a finding that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law or a wording that says that the Constitution guarantees something. If it is the latter, I understand Mr Van Hattem's criticism of the observation. Does Mr Van Hattem read correctly that the Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state, or do I read correctly that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u130	I would like to thank Mr Ganzevoort for taking me back on the path we were following, because we had strayed somewhat towards the importance of the democratic rule of law. When I answer Mr Ganzevoort's question, I will first take the basis of the Constitution. The Constitution is the basis of all public action and is primarily addressed to the public authorities. In this respect, the general provision does contain obligations, the guarantee of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law by the constitutionalist and wider public authorities. The general provision therefore obliges us to check time and again whether the principles of the democratic rule of law are being respected. The Constitution focuses mainly on the government. That is why I think it is right that the general provision does not refer to civic obligations, but to the basic principles of our state system. Mr Koole asked, as a follow-up, whether I could imagine a democratic rule of law without fundamental rights. No, I can't imagine. Fundamental rights are part of the concept of the rule of law and democratic rule of law. One reason to highlight them is the connection that has been sought with international formulations. The sober and short wording allows for all kinds of fundamental rights, national, international, classical-social, or any category.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u131	The Minister says that it was done because international wordings were sought. I think there's a translation problem behind this. The international wording refers to the rule of law. We translate this into Dutch with "legal state." But that is literally the principle of legality. The rule of law is: the principle of legality, the independent judge and fundamental rights. Together, that's called the rule of law. In English they say rule of law, because those other things are also fundamental rights. But if you put that together, I think you're translating it wrong into Dutch. I think that's what happened. It's okay, because I think fundamental rights are very important. But I would like to hear from the Minister that there is no tension between fundamental rights on the one hand and the democratic rule of law on the other, and that, while fundamental rights are highlighted, they are at the same time fundamental elements of the same democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u132	I do not see this as a tension, because it was also placed in the broad sense of guaranteeing fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law in the way it was dealt with at the time in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u133	I hear the Minister now a few times stress the normative nature of the provisions. That reminded me of the original opinion of the Council of State. I have only brought it with me for a moment, so I quote: "This proposed general provision has a declaratory symbolic character in particular" - "Great Council of State Language" - "with a weak normative meaning at most." Then how does the Minister look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u134	Two-way. That was, of course, based on the old wording. I think that was "fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law," if I remember correctly. The second is that this opinion was issued during a different period. The past period has shown that it is also important for us to look at normality. Look, for example, at what did not go well with childcare allowances. In the end, we have not been able to protect people from the action of the government. If we were to ask the Council of State whether they see the normative meaning as weak, I wonder if they might give it more meaning, because it has also become clear that the action of the government has not always been as good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u135	But that opinion of the Council of State looks at the wording. I admit immediately to the Minister that the wording was different in that it contained 'democracy' and that two other parts had been changed. But if we leave that alone for what it is, for that surely will not have been the essence of the event, then what is so different in the formulation now, or why is the world so inclined to look at that same formulation differently, so you should say that now it is really normative, and not just a declaratory and symbolic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u136	But then I interpret what the Council of State said in the opinion rather than Mr Talsma does. That is what I have just said about Article 91 of the Constitution: you cannot accept treaties that are contrary to fundamental rights or the democratic rule of law. This has given it more normative meaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u137	One more question. The Minister also referred a few times to the English motion. It has undoubtedly been signed by Mr Koole, but also, for the record, by my predecessor, Mr Kuiper, on behalf of the Christian Union. In particular, it was the operative part: cabinet, come up with a wording stating that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. And I've been wondering a little bit all along: how difficult was it for the cabinet to come up with a bill that doesn't contain this rather mystifying text, but simply 'The Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state', if necessary, is still in the motion, supplemented by some other rules? Why didn't you choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u138	Then you ask me to go back to a process that I did not attend myself. The process in which I was involved is mainly part of the debate in the House of Representatives in which the amendment was tabled. In fact, that's the general provision... Let me put it this way: the general provision is not a preamble. With the choice of a general provision you already make a choice for normality. When it comes to the wording: the cabinet had chosen something else, but the Chamber put in the debate 'democratic rule of law'. But I remember from that debate above all that the House of Representatives then indicated that the two concepts are inseparable: one cannot see one without the other. I think that was a different interpretation than the cabinet had at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u139	We talked about the declarative character. We talked about the normative character. But isn't there some kind of aspiration in it? Isn't the general provision "democratic rule of law" something we always have to strive for? I kind of miss that in this discussion, so I'm asking the Minister if I can see that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u140	For me as a minister, the democratic rule of law is something you always have to guarantee in the action of the government. At least there's an aspiration in that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question: what does "democratic" actually mean? That was an interesting debate and an interesting exchange of views between Mr Kox and Mr Koole. It has been deliberately chosen not to give a specific coloration of the concept of democracy in the general provision. The sober and short wording allows for all kinds of democracy, whether parliamentary, representative, direct or indirect, formal or material, or whatever form. The provision therefore does not introduce the notion of popular sovereignty in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u141	I'm very surprised about that. People's sovereignty is defined as that any public action must be legitimised, directly or indirectly, to the consent of the population. Isn't that the only way to legitimize the government's actions? What I meant by my story is: is democracy based on popular sovereignty? I am not asking for a certain form of democracy, because there are many forms of democracy: direct and indirect, parliamentary, representative, presidential, there are all kinds of forms. But they are all based on the notion of popular sovereignty. So the Minister can't just walk away from that. Then my question is: what is the authority of the government based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u142	The concept of sovereignty can be defined in different ways. In the end, it is a question of who has the highest authority. The idea of popular sovereignty, as I understand Mr Koole, is that the people have the highest authority and that the state power can only be based on the will of the people. As I understand it, this idea is originally from Rousseau, by whom democracy is primarily meant as direct democracy. A representative democracy was, in his view, a violation of popular sovereignty. From that point of view, I am referring to Mr Koole. Then my conclusion is that it was not people's sovereignty, because in Rousseau's mind representative democracy is excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u143	I really disagree with the Minister here, because people's sovereignty cannot be based solely on Rousseau. Rousseau has also expressed ideas about it. It was a general thought formation in the eighteenth century. Montesquieu also said some things about it. There are many others, for example John Locke. All kinds of other thinkers have talked about it. In the end, for the first time, you will see it reappear in the American Declaration of Independence and then in the French Revolution. There's a lot more thinkers behind it than just Rousseau. By bringing it back to Rousseau, the Minister does not do justice to the concept of "public sovereignty." People's sovereignty certainly does not exclude representative democracy. America really is based on that: "We, the People of the United States." Once again, my question is: if you describe it as I just described it, namely that any government action must be legitimized by direct or indirect consent of the population, which is the definition of "people's sovereignty," is the term "democracy" in the Constitution not simply an expression based on popular sovereignty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u144	I conclude that Mr Koole and I have a slightly different interpretation of the concept of 'people's sovereignty'. My impression is that unlimited popular sovereignty has never been simply accepted as the basis for all state action. Thorbecke already saw popular sovereignty as an important principle in his time, but it should not be unlimited. She had to be tamed, like he said. He saw the State as an organism that had grown historically and was therefore a value in itself. There are also other concepts of "sovereignty." Of course, there is also talk of "state sovereignty" in which the State has the highest authority, or by some parties, of the sovereignty of the king or of God.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u145	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u146	This is a very long discussion. "State sovereignty" is primarily about states themselves, and "public sovereignty" is about how a state, within a community, legitimises government. Does it come from anything other than the direct or indirect consent of the people? As defined as such, I do not see that this would be different in the Netherlands from, for example, the United States or Germany or France or in all democracies. The Minister may be a little afraid of the term 'people's sovereignty'. It is common in other countries. That may have something to do, as I said at first, with the residue from the past. There was once a struggle between fronts and opponents. People's sovereignty can stay away from it if it's defined as I just did. My question to the Minister is: would she share the definition, regardless of the term 'people's sovereignty', that the authority of the government in the Netherlands is legitimized by direct or indirect consent of the population?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u147	First of all, I can reassure Mr Koole that I am not so easily afraid. Secondly, of course, we also have the King who also plays a role in our state system, however modest it may be. On that basis, I cannot fully follow Mr Koole's conclusion that the people would be completely sovereign. The King still has a role in our state system, however modest that role of the King may be at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u148	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u149	Just one brief comment. Since 1814 we have had a constitutional monarchy. The Constitution has been accepted for a century by elected representatives, directly or indirectly representing the population, elected by universal suffrage. In this way, legitimacy is still ultimately based on the indirect or direct consent of the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u150	I conclude that we do not come to a joint landing site about the concept of 'public sovereignty'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u151	But aren't we at the heart of the problem we're always talking about today? A general provision has been introduced that some people are completely fond of, but everyone has their own vision and ideas. The Minister has just mentioned some six forms of democracy. Perhaps there are six parties here who all look differently at that democracy, that popular sovereignty. In the meantime, we have reached the constitutional monarchy. Quite rightly, Mr Koole said that is where we come from. Then why doesn't it say so? And also those other provisions on human dignity, the right to life and the like. If you were to base it only on these kinds of constitutional terms, this would raise a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u152	Because, in the end, this is about incorporating the principles of law and not the elements of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u153	But then I come to another question I asked. Does the Minister see this as some sort of first-rate clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u154	I didn't quite get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u155	Mr Schalk, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u156	I'm gonna try to speak more clearly. Does the Minister see this as some sort of first-rate clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u157	As I have just argued, this provision is an important starting point for the values to be examined by our Constitution. The Constitution guarantees democracy and the democratic rule of law. I have just given a number of examples, including Article 93, in which this provision has a more desirable effect, as Mr Dittrich said, but also an effect on the application of such an article as Article 93 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u158	Finally, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u159	Finally, Mr President. Maybe the Minister wants to stay away from a first-class clause, but does she see it as some sort of umbrella clause? Does the Minister agree with my group that all articles in the Constitution are secondary? Otherwise we get all kinds of forms: one is higher or more important than the other. We don't want any of that. Now we're creating something that would be right back above it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u160	This general provision is deliberately not a preamble. He really got a place next to the other constitutional provisions. It is a choice of normality to indicate it. Mr Schalk is right that there is no order of importance. That is of value when it comes to our fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u161	I'm glad to hear the Minister isn't afraid, but I never thought he would. I also think she doesn't have to be afraid in this discussion. I felt, in the first period, that it would be possible to bring about an à bout portant of popular sovereignty as an ingredient of this constitutional change. I read in preparation an article describing the parties of Mr Van Hattem and of me as the two most pronounced supporters of popular sovereignty in the Netherlands. I don't know if he knows. I don't know if I knew either. But that's what it says. Then it's going to be so gradual down that way, I'll say. We are not changing the Constitution to include a theory. We are amending the Constitution because it guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. I think that's a good description. He comes from a VVD, but it's a good description in the end. Willy Thomassen had written a broader story. I'd like to ask the Minister if she sees anything in the explanation someone like Barbara Oomen gave. The question was, of course, "And who is the Constitution? Can you call them?" No. Then Barbara Oomen says: "This provision should be read like this. The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. Any person who derives a position, a power, a power from the Constitution, shall be held to comply with his or her actions and omissions." This means that all of them, from the King.............................................................................................................................................................................................. If we can agree on that, then we have an explanation that your working path can work with. Barbara Oomen is not a member of my party, but also not of the VVD. We will then resolve the discussions on popular sovereignty... I very much agree with Koole on how it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u162	Is this your question, Mr. Kox? This was your question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u163	I think I put my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u164	If Mr Kox points out that it is indeed an interpretative framework, I agree with him. Moreover, it is a nice talk about sovereignty and popular sovereignty, because it goes back to the foundations of our state-building and the way in which it has developed over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u165	That's not unusual here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u166	That also shows why it is important not to let the First Chamber elect directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u167	Well, that's a little fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. Mr Talsma asked: why was the constitutionalist chosen as a standard address? Norm address is indeed primarily the constitutionalist. It is, after all, the Constitution that guarantees, in accordance with the functions of law and regulation. The constitutions of Norway and Finland have a similar structure to a standard address. Public authorities or institutions other than the legislator are of course also considered to guarantee fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, such as the courts and enforcement services. Each body does so in its own way, from a different jurisdiction and from different bases. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van den Berg asked: shouldn't the wording of the general provision also contain anything on what is special about the Dutch Constitution? This text seems to apply to any Western democracy. I see the point, too. It would be nice and also true if every Western democracy recognized itself in a provision like this, because I also attach great importance to the sober wording. As I mentioned earlier, this proposal has achieved an optimal balance between the functions of the Constitution and the austerity of the Constitution. Thus, the provision also allows for a different specific interpretation of the constitutional order. We have also looked closely at foreign constitutions, such as Norway and Finland. Mr. Chairman. Another question was: why was it not chosen to include some other fundamental rights from the European Convention on Human Rights in the draft constitution? That is a question from Mr Kox. I think I've already had these.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u169	Perhaps in your mind, but not in your response. One of the key proposals of the Thomases committee was that you should actually have the fundamental rights guaranteed by the human rights treaty that binds us all in Europe, also in your constitution. The inclusion of a number of provisions, such as the right to a fair trial, which is in line with the ECHR, should therefore include the right to life, the right to family life and a ban on torture, three basic provisions in the ECHR. That was the advice of the Thamassen Committee. After that, the whole committee's advice went into the trash and it was taken out here again, but after that this part never came back. That was my question. Not to do that right away, but to consider whether that would make any sense. Otherwise it seems as if there is a difference between the rights that we do take and the rights that we do not take. Although it does not undermine the legal protection of the individual, my question to the Minister is: is this something we are going to go even further with constitutional changes in order to get back to it? I think that was well-founded by the Thamassen Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u170	I also understand that this point has been raised in various debates in response to the opinion of the Thomasses Committee. The debates at that time did not show that the other fundamental international or European rights should also be laid down. Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution stipulate that the fundamental rights referred to by Mr Kox, such as the right to life and the right to family life, are also protected. From that perspective, you can see that the general provision does not so much describe the elements of fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, but above all the principles underlying the state system. So this provision is about the principles and not so much about the elements. When it comes to the elements of the right to life or the right to family life, my line, and also that of the cabinet, which has now been adequately implemented by Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u171	As I recall, my question was not directly linked to this general provision, but to the fact that we do have the right to a fair trial, because it is also in the ECHR. The Minister has explained why it is very good to put that in our Constitution as well. That is why I would say: why not the right to life, the right to family life and the ban on torture? I will give it my consideration for a further constitutional change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u172	Thank you for that consideration. At the moment, I do not intend, as I have already said, to go further on all the constitutional proposals that are still pending in the Chamber and which I am working on. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a number of questions from Mr Van Hattem. He asked: does that general provision also affect a number of other elements? For example, it concerns the behaviour of judges. I leave it to Mr Van Hattem to explain this, but direct judicial review of the general provision is in any case difficult to imagine. The general provision does not contain a very concrete standard, but is primarily intended as a task for the constitutional authority and also as an interpretation framework for bodies of office and public administration. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Van Hattem also asked: how does this provision relate to the European Public Prosecutor's Office? In any event, the general provision does not prevent the establishment and functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr Van Hattem also expressed his concerns about the democratic deficit he sees in the security regions, for example. It is true that the security regions are ultimately accountable to the representative bodies, so ultimately the chairman of the security region is accountable to the municipal councils. But this is not the case in a way other than the relationship between the Minister and Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u173	This is typically a point where the current government always has a blind spot, I would almost say. There is accountability to the municipal councils. I am in a city council myself, but the responsibility from the security region, especially on measures entrusted to the security region by the Empire, and all of which are now falling under the heading of crisis measures, is almost impossible to control. That is also the criticism of Mayor Kolff van Dordrecht. It is not directly monitored in practice from the Parliament. This is often more in the general context. From the city council that control does not take place, because it is a state mission. There's just a big democratic hole in this. What is the Minister going to do if we include such a general provision of 'The Netherlands is a democratic state of law and democracy must be promoted', in order to promote democracy in this area? How can there be more transparency and democratic control in all these consultative bodies, whether it be Mr Bruls' Security Council, the security regions or all these consultation and climate tables?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u174	For me, there are two things to do with that. At the moment, a president of the security region must always be accountable for what he has done. Secondly, this cabinet is in the process of drafting a pandemic preparedness bill, which should explicitly take the form of the chairman of the security region into account, also in relation to the mayor and the accountability to it. That bill will be coming to this Chamber in some time, through the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u175	But that is where the looming error lies, because this is already going directly through the security regions, which were mainly intended for acute cases, such as a large fire, a leak, or at least fire-fighting and crisis management. Now it's all under the heading of "crisis." A pandemic may be an acute crisis in the early stages, but if it lasts two years, you should no longer want to organise it through the security regions. Asylum reception is also standardized under crisis measures. If we are talking about democracy and democratic functioning, why are these crisis measures being taken so automatically? I also mentioned the example of curfew, in which state emergency law was removed. Can't that be dealt with in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u176	First of all. If we look at the security regions and what the President has done, he has, of course, been accountable to the Minister for Health. A second line is that the cabinet is in the process of revising the state emergency law to bring that to the fore. That's a follow-up. A third important guarantee is that precisely around the pandemic preparedness law these kinds of issues, about how you are accountable and who is responsible at what stage, will be further developed. These are all issues on which further discussions will be held not only in the Lower House, but also, of course, in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u177	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u178	It is good to review state emergency law, but the point is that in such policy areas as asylum and public health, you should not want to get involved in state emergency law at all. That's where the problem is. You need to see how this can be organised in a more democratic way. I also mentioned the example of the climate tables, the consultation tables, asylum reception, but we can also think of an intergovernmental programme, on which the directly elected parliament has very little influence. Can the Minister indicate how they can be better integrated into the democratic system with a strong focus on implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u179	Speaking of the safeguards that are created in it, one of the steps that is now being taken is to analyse the possibilities for better compliance with the asylum declaration on the basis of legislation. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security is expressly involved in this. But if I go wider, of course, when it comes to democratic legitimacy and accountability, the legislation that is laid down here in the Lower House, but also in the Upper Chamber, not only the Cabinet but also the Chambers themselves, must test whether the accountability to democratic institutions and bodies is properly regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u180	Let's follow up on this. Professor Elzinga recently made his recommendations on decentralised governance. He concluded, which I also conclude, that the Netherlands is traditionally very good at losing responsibilities. Now I hear stories here about the democratic legitimacy of the security regions. If you're going to conduct a survey on the corona policy, you can already tell that there's a democratic gap in the security regions. They're not legitized. What about, for example, the chairman of the security regions, Mr Bruls? His name's already fallen. He comes on television our evening after night telling us what we should and shouldn't do, whether we should stay inside et cetera. What about his democratic legitimacy? I think that is the problem that led to such a bad follow-up at some point and which caused all this rebellion. People think: who are we dealing with here; I didn't vote for him and he's going to tell us every night what to do? What about, for example, democratic legitimacy in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u181	This is, of course, one of the issues that led to the adoption of a temporary law, but let us not repeat the Corona debates. The other thing Mr Otten says is indeed the point Elzinga is making. In his wider research, he indicates that it may be very necessary to create a framework for decentralised governance and to include a number of balancing criteria as to what cases you are doing about centralisation, decentralisation, concentration, differentiation and other matters. His suggestion to look at a framework for decentralised governance is one of the subjects on which I am now discussing with the co-governments. Is that a good way to give direction to this kind of thing? They play a role in assigning tasks and ensuring that there are good accountability mechanisms underneath them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u182	That wasn't my question. What is the democratic legitimacy of the President of the security regions, Mr Bruls, to tell the Dutch people all day what to do and what not to do? What is his democratic legitimacy to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u183	That's the Security Regions Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u184	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u185	That's the Security Regions Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u186	But no voter voted for this chairman, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u187	That law was passed in the Second and First Chambers, by people elected by other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u188	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u189	So people are appointed, who have been re-appointed by others, who appoint people... In the end, someone was chosen somewhere. But that doesn't work anymore. We also see the trend of regionalisation. That is why we say: switch to regional parliaments. Then you've solved the regionalisation trend and at the same time you've got democratic legitimacy. Then you can solve a lot of problems at once. Mr Elzinga is looking for it to strengthen the role of the Minister of the Interior, but I think that is a bypassed station. Too much has happened in society for that. We can't get that straightened out in time. Hence our solution. We've been thinking about it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u190	Hence your call. Mr Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u191	I note that the discussion on whether or not to include a general provision in the Constitution is likely to get bogged down in a discussion on the democratic anchoring of the extended local government. In this context, I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that last year, on 25 May 2021, a motion by Member Leijten was adopted in the House of Representatives, specifically on the democratic legitimacy of regional partnerships. At the moment this is carried out through research by the professors Klaartje Peters and Geerten Boogaard. I believe that the results of this study will answer many of the questions raised by Mr Van Hattem and Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u192	Your interruption is intended as a question to the Minister. You're about to have a second term. In it you can debit these reflections. An interruption is a short, enlightening question to the Minister. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u193	Mr President, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u194	That's an answer to a non-asked question. Of course, that's the most beautiful thing there is. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u195	Mr. Chairman. How does a general provision relate to constitutional review? The judge can review lower regulations against the Constitution. It is difficult to imagine that the judge is also directly assessing the general provision, because the general provision is mainly intended as a mission, primarily to the constitutionalist, and as an interpretation framework for posts, bodies and public administrations. Earlier, the general provision in the background will be able to play a role in the judicial review of other constitutional provisions. As I indicated, my intention is to present a headline on constitutional review before the summer. Mr. Chairman. That is also what Mr Koole's question was about. Should you look at the drafting of constitutional articles, even if you are entering into a constitutional review? The question is whether the constitutional provisions under review are verifiable. Do they lend themselves to that? It's probably true sometimes, and sometimes it's not. History alone will not be decisive, but also the text as such and its significance. It is conceivable that the constitutionalist himself will decide what can be assessed. In this case, it is indeed necessary to look carefully at the wording of the relevant constitutional provisions in the assessment of which constitutional provisions are verifiable. We have just looked back at the initiative legislative proposal Halsema/Van Tongeren and the Remkes Committee. They indicated that for a set of provisions in any case they are testable, but if you continue to work it out, it might be good to find out that a formulation will also have to change in order to achieve a proper review.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u196	I understand that the Minister acknowledges that it is possible that some provisions may be less testable. Is that also something that's in that headline note before the summer? Is that what you're looking at?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u197	For me, the construction of the outline letter is as follows. First of all, I would like to take the members of the First and Second Chamber well into account in the various forms in which you can carry out constitutional review, i.e. spread or concentrated, either in advance or afterwards. It may also be a question of legal effect, such as declaring destruction, nullity or inapplicable. Then we've got a fourth that's in there. My intention is to indicate what will be the main line that the cabinet is thinking of, also to give direction to the discussion in both chambers. I do not expect to be able to state what the choice is up to the point of the individual article, also because, together with the Minister for Legal Protection, I am sending a main letter to the two Chambers, precisely in order to be able to conduct this debate openly. So the answer to the specific question is: it will be the main points, but I will not go into detail yet as to whether there is a need for adaptation and which article it would concern, even in order to have a broader debate first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u198	I understand that you have not yet gone into every article in detail. But that's different than saying nothing at all. It could also be thought that the main letter raises the question of whether all constitutional articles are properly ex post testable by a judge at the time a form of constitutional review is introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u199	If you're doing an ex post review and making this observation, you should also look at it. I say here that in certain cases you will have to do so. When writing the letter I will see if we can draw attention to this, because it is important that this is also weighed in the further consideration. At the First Chamber it is now clear in mind, but I do not think that is clear on the retina at the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u200	I welcome the commitment that this is addressed in the letter, as a question to be able to look at it. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u201	In any case, I would like to point out that this can be done in the context of constitutional review, depending on the choices you make in the further development. That also gives direction to the discussion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Van Hattem's question. He asked: what is this provision doing towards the European Union? The European Union and its treaties are part of the Dutch legal order. Union law operates directly outside our Constitution. To that extent, the general provision has no meaning for Union law. However, the provision, as I mentioned earlier, has significance in the creation of European Union law. For the adoption of treaties, including those of the European Union, requires a qualified majority if provisions of those treaties depart from the Constitution. Consideration should also be given to the general provision. It will also be necessary to assess the compatibility of these proposals with the Constitution when establishing EU legislation. This test is, of course, also reflected in the Review of New Commission proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u202	Mr. Van Hattem, any short questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u203	That last point is particularly interesting. What if we have this general provision and this has to be tested? There is a proposal coming from Brussels, a dictation we shall say. It does not seem to be entirely in line with our Constitution and we are sending the proposal back to Brussels. There is an unelected European Commission; no Dutch electorate has elected that European Commission. And he says: "Sorry the Netherlands, but you will have to do so. This will be in the regulation in a moment, and we will impose it in a moment. It may not be able to comply with your Constitution, but we have decided in this way." Will the Netherlands then stand firm and say: we are not really going to do this, because this is our Constitution and this is contrary to it? Or is there going to be a compromise? Or is it being said: well, we are in agreement with what Brussels is ordering us to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u204	One of the important elements in our Constitution is the independence of our judges, as we discussed earlier. Of course, when the European Union wants to go through this, it would not be in line with our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u205	That may be one example, but we also have the Digital Services Act, for example, which the European Commission is working on. It can affect our fundamental rights in many respects: the right to freedom of information collection, you name it, and above all freedom of expression. What if we all find here that this is a violation of freedom of expression? Is the cabinet going to say to Brussels: that Digital Services Act is never going to be applied here in the Netherlands? Or is it said: we have to, because Brussels wants it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u206	The Digital Services Act, quite apart from our own fundamental rights, is of course also concerned with the European Convention on Human Rights, which contains the provisions that Mr Van Hattem has just put forward. The European Union therefore also has to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u207	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u208	The Minister expects the European Union to do so. But let us say here that this is not the case, given our Constitution and that general provision that should then be included. Suppose it contains provisions which we as the Netherlands consider unacceptable from our sovereign position. Can we go so far as to say: sorry Brussels, this is just not going to come here? Or does it end up being drawn by the cross again? If that is the case, such a general provision of course remains a dead letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u209	My image of the Digital Services Act is right now that it is going very well. I really see Mr Van Hattem's argument on this point, which I simply do not foresee will happen, because it is precisely because we are working together very well to protect the rights of individual people. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the end of the answer to the questions on the general provision. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the fourth proposal on the disposal of certain provisions. I would like to thank all the Members who have thanked for their constitutional hygiene. Thank you for that. Then I come to the review of the amendment of the constitutional review procedure as a strengthening of the democratic process. First of all, Mr Schalk asked: do we see this as a strengthening of the democratic process? Yes, because the Constitutional proposal makes it impossible for the House of Representatives to move forward on the second reading. As Professor Schutgens rightly argued in Ars Aequi a few years ago, this undermines the electoral consultation envisaged by the constitutionalist. From this point of view, the draft Constitution does indeed contribute to strengthening the democratic process. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox asked whether it was my expectation that the draft Constitution would lead to a more appropriate second reading in future. I see that at least the House of Representatives no longer decides for purely political reasons to move the debate forward. This is a form of constitutional hygiene, which is important. Mr Van den Berg asked whether the House of Representatives is in a position to conclude a second reading. This was also an explicit point in the Lower House. I am therefore going to explain it quite carefully so that at least it is well in the Acts. My answer is yes. I am convinced that there is enough time before the fall of a cabinet to complete a second reading of a constitutional proposal in good time. In practice, the parliamentary term of the Lower House always lasts at least eight months: at least two months before forming a cabinet, at least three months before a cabinet crisis leads to the decision to hold new elections and then three months before the elections are over. So you come to a period of eight months. If this period is used properly, the discussion of a second reading can be concluded at that time. The best example of this is the situation in 1981. Then the House of Representatives concluded its examination of the second reading of the general constitutional reform within five months. For the record, the proposals were no less than 34 separate but partly coherent. We also looked at the 2002-2003 parliamentary term, when the Lower House failed to complete the examination of the then pending constitutional proposal in the second reading. This was not so much due to the short term of the session, but to the fact that the proposals were submitted at second reading only long after the day of the first meeting. Two proposals were submitted only six weeks before the 2003 winding-up elections. That won't happen again. Both government proposals and own-initiative proposals at second reading will be submitted immediately when the new Lower House joins. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked whether a hardness clause was a good idea for the constitutional review procedure. Because, as she said, there may be situations in this case, at second reading, that the House of Representatives cannot conclude it in time. I've just outlined how I see how fast that can go. I would not like to include a hardness clause, because my concern is that such a hardness clause can again be part of a political discussion in order to push it forward. I have just talked about the time available for a second reading to be completed carefully and about the examples in which it went well with extensive second readings. I therefore believe that this can be achieved in an eight-month period. This means, however, that it is the responsibility of the Minister in question to make every effort by the cabinet to provide the Chamber with quick answers if it is asked to do so, so that the Chamber can continue the proceedings with speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u210	I follow the Minister's reasoning as to how she gets to those eight months. However, my question was also based on care. We all know that, if there's a little hiccup, maybe because of a recess, such an answer could take a lot longer. Then at some point you have the possibility that a constitutional change is going to be a little roughed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u211	Since all aspects of a proposal have already been dealt with very extensively at first reading, I am confident that the last fundamental points in such a proposal at second reading are much more specific and much clearer. This also makes it possible to send a quick and timely response to questions that have been asked, regardless of whether there is a recess or no recess, because then at least there will be further work on the Ministry's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u212	I hear the Minister say something about such a hardness clause when there is a kind of force majeure situation. There are, of course, points to this again, so that you can get that maneuverer again with a political interest to postpone something. So the Minister cannot imagine a situation in which there is a situation of force majeure which would mean that the second reading would not take place and would mean that the entire constitutional review would have to be resumed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u213	Since it takes at least two months for you to have a cabinet, and there can certainly be the expectation that a cabinet will sit for three months and it will then take another three months until there are elections, it should be possible to prepare, deal with and complete a constitutional proposal within eight months and in second reading in the House of Representatives. Of course, that doesn't apply to the First Chamber. Since this was achieved within four months with more than 30 proposals in 1981, I am confident that this will not be a problem in the future. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole asked how many proposals would have to be considered in the review procedure during this period if the constitutional proposal on the revision procedure were to be adopted. The constitutional proposal on the constitutional review procedure includes transitional rights in a so-called additional article. Under the transitional law, the new revision procedure does not yet apply to constitutional proposals submitted at second reading during the current parliamentary term of the House of Representatives. It is therefore only in the case of constitutional proposals which will now be finalised at first reading. This means that if I submit a constitutional proposal for this period, which is also my intention, the new procedure will apply if this proposal is adopted. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox asked a question about Mrs Leijten's constitutional proposal on the corrective referendum. I would like to say that I really like the fact that Members of Parliament really are making constitutional proposals, both in relation to Mrs Leijten's and the other initiative proposals. That's special to me, isn't it? Apart from that fact, the vote was held today. So I can't say anything more about that right now. That was the answer to the questions on the constitutional review procedure. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the letter secret. The question is whether the term 'telecommunications' will not be too concise in some time. That's what Mr. Kox asked. Telecommunications is also intended to formulate it independently of technology and therefore to place the various techniques underneath. That is why it is intended to do so. But I can't foresee what new forms of communication there might be in 20 years' time. 30 years ago we just called each other on the landline and had never heard the word "mobile phone," let alone "smartphone." I would like to point out that it is technologically independent for this period, but I cannot look for 30 years in the future to see how we communicate with each other. The term 'telecommunications' refers precisely to the transmission of information at a distance, irrespective of the means used. That's what technology independence is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u214	That is a logical answer, but I asked the Minister to relate it to what the Thamassen Committee had proposed. It had an even more independent understanding, namely that everyone has the right to the protection of confidential communications. Whatever happens to the technique, you're safe. My question was: why didn't we finally choose it, knowing that we are at second reading and I can't take a subscription?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u215	I need to dig deep into my memory to know why that choice was ever made. I don't want to speculate on that. I can imagine why that was done. You want to distinguish between Article 10 and Article 13 very clearly. The difference between these articles is, of course, that it is ultimately about transporting the information from one person to another. Article 10 also concerns the protection of personal information, but it concerns the individual. I'm going to find out if this is indeed the correct interpretation. But that is the first thing that comes to mind when Mr Kox says that to me. In that context, Mr Talsma also asked whether it was true that, for the purposes of telecommunications secrecy, the transmission of the message from one Member State to another should be carried out and entrusted to a third party and addressed to it. That's right. There are three criteria which determine the scope of Article 13. There shall be a means of communication with which the message is transmitted, a third party involved in the transport and/or storage of the communication and the communication is addressed to one or more identifiable consignees or one or more separately determined recipients. The communication does not need to be addressed, but must be targeted. For example, think of a chat message in a private Facebook group. That is addressed to everyone in that Facebook group, but is not addressed to one person in particular. Mr Koole also asked: the secret of telecommunications is still not very modern; what does this mean for the privacy of citizens in relation to big tech? The inclusion of telecommunications secrecy extends the protection of Article 13 of the Constitution to all means of communication. This technology-independent term ensures that new and future resources are covered by the protection of this article, including new means of communication such as e-mail, WhatsApp and Signal, although some will find e-mail quite old-fashioned. Article 13 protects citizens, in particular, from public access. I share the following, by the way. There is already legislation protecting fundamental rights in horizontal rules. I refer to the Telecommunications Act, the Postal Act 2009 and the General Data Protection Regulation. There is also a lot of legislation in preparation that will better protect citizens' fundamental rights, such as the Digital Services Act, as well as the Digital Markets Act. We are also working on the e-Privacy Regulation, which lays down rules for this. Mr Dittrich asked, also on behalf of Mr Nicolaï, to explain once again the demarcation between Article 13 and Article 10. Article 13 protects the content of the communication when it is entrusted to a third party responsible for transport. Article 13 applies if three criteria are met: the use of a means of communication, the entrusting of the content to a third party in charge of transport, and the orientation of communication. Where the content of a message rests with the sender or recipient, and is therefore not on the way, the protection of Article 10 applies and the information then belongs to someone's privacy. Both Articles ensure that the public authorities do not have access to the information without a legal basis. In that context, Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked if the Minister would like to see whether Article 13 is horizontal, because she rightly says that Article 13 of the Constitution only refers to vertical relations. To include a horizontal relationship in Article 13 of the Constitution does not fit in well with the general constitutional system. The Advisory Section of the Council of State has also advised us not to include a regulatory mandate for the legislator to regulate horizontal relations in this case. Horizontal protection is sufficiently standardized in ordinary legislation, such as the Telecommunications Act and the General Data Protection Regulation, as I just said. That's enough security. Mr Talsma asked for confirmation that this form of wording does not in any way mean austerity, deterioration or reduction for investigations in criminal matters. I would like to answer this question with a clear yes. In this context, Mr Van Hattem asked a question about the relationship between bulk interception and the application of special powers. This proposal does not change the legal framework for intelligence and security services operating under the Intelligence and Security Services Act. As regards interception of telecommunications, both the current and the proposed Article 13 require authorisation from those designated by law. This means that the minister responsible, I therefore, must give permission for the interception of communication, both for the content and for the metadata. Only that power shall be used when the Review Committee on Betting Powers says that it is lawful and lawful. It is also very important in the system that the Review Committee on Betting Powers also reviews the legality of the decision that I made as a minister. If it is unlawful, it will not be exercised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u216	That is indeed the correct explanation given by the Minister to the application of the law, if the whole goes according to the legal frameworks. However, we have now also seen reports that, for example, information has been kept for too long and that there has actually been outside those legal frameworks. When we talk about the protection of fundamental rights and the application of the general provision, the question is what the extension of letter secrecy means for the situation that goes beyond those legal frameworks. Is there any conflict with this fundamental right? I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u217	This is really about something else, which is also essential and important, namely the legal framework for the use of bulk datasets. Both the Review Committee of the Intelligence and Security Services Act, Mrs Renée Jones-Bos, and the Supervisory Committee of the Intelligence and Security Services have indicated that the legal framework currently does not provide for what is needed and that consideration should be given to the possibility of resolving these bottlenecks in a different way. In the meantime, I have sent a letter on this matter, also to the First Chamber. The temporary law that we are preparing also regulates these bulk datasets. In doing so, we would also like to respond to the findings of the evaluation committee and the Commission for the Monitoring of Information and Security Services. But these are two separate issues, not less important, but two separate ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u218	Certainly, but we can, of course, have the situation of acting outside these frameworks. An adapted decision or framework is now being made, but this can happen again in the future. If we go outside, do we have to refer to this as a violation of the new provision on the secret of letters? Does this constitutional provision also protect against such government action, with too long retention or otherwise unlawful use of such large-scale data interception? Could the Minister perhaps point that out from that perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u219	Article 13 of the Constitution is about communication, about me providing targeted information to another person, with a third being among them. A bulk dataset is a collection of information that a service has under it. There is no communication between one and the other, in the sense of via a third. That is why they are also two different legal regimes, one not on the other. For both you have to act, for the bulk dataset also within the Intelligence and Security Services Act. There is a point where the supervisor and the evaluation committee are present. You're gonna have to make a different legal arrangement in the Wiv in the future. That's what we're doing. But that doesn't have a relationship with communication, because there's no third party in between. It is actually a collection of information that is used as reference work by the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u220	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u221	There is a certain contradiction in that, because that third party is definitely among them. It intercepts the information, albeit with a legal basis and purpose. But if it is then dealt with in an unlawful manner, then you can ask yourself whether within that system of communication, in which two persons, two entities, are communicated and there is public interception, which is then used illegally... The minister says it is used as reference work, so there is use of that data. Then there is a certain infringement of Article 13, isn't there? If so, how should this extension be interpreted? It is now technologically neutral, so you would expect that this form of communication, which is therefore infringed, should be covered by this constitutional article.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u222	To Mr Van Hattem I say that a tap is really distinguishable from a bulk dataset. Both have legal regimes around them. In this context, it is true that if I, as a minister, authorise a tap, a test must be carried out by the Review Committee on Betting Powers to consider it lawful or not. If it's legitimate, you can bet it. But the bulk dataset is actually about the question of the relevance determination and the extent to which you can keep it, and the legal deadlines for it. The committee that oversees this is saying that we need to see how we can organise it differently. In the letter to the Chamber, I also said that I consider it important to do so, including in the temporary law on which the Council of State has just given its opinion. These are really two separate issues in the nature of matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u223	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u224	And no less important, I say to Mr Van Hattem. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk: is it possible to consider splitting up the secret of letters and telecommunications? Article 13 protects the confidentiality of the content of the communication, regardless of the means used for that purpose. The protection is therefore the same for all means, for the letter and telecommunications means. This is technology-independent and therefore future-proof. It is therefore also good for legal certainty. From that point of view, I would not like to opt for division, because it is a whole. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked about the e-Privacy regulation. She said, "It's gonna take a long time." I agree with her. The negotiations are now in the trilogue phase. This means that the Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission only have to reach an agreement. A transitional period of two years may then apply. During that period, the current privacy and telecommunications rules are in force. They offer a high and comparable level of protection in the Netherlands. Mr President, those were the questions I had on this point. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u225	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a beautiful day to talk about all kinds of things about the Constitution. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van den Berg. A beautiful maiden speech with all the depth that goes with it. I'm glad we can take that side of the conversation with us. The Minister rightly stresses not only the beauty, but also the importance of the Constitution. I would almost like to say to her that if you speak so highly of the Constitution, please do not forget the Statute. Because we often say that the Constitution is the most fundamental text, but in the end that is the Statute for the Kingdom. But that aside. One point that has been raised is the improvement of access to justice. That is an important point that played a part in the process debate. Concreteisation is needed and will have to be followed. We had another question about the Caribbean countries. That has to do with the fact that the entire electoral college remains a complicated construct. In the discussion we had about it, I think we all felt that it is another way to settle something that you would like to. It has something uncomfortable in a number of ways, for example because the voting value is determined by a number of elements, such as the population of the provinces. But that population includes non-voting Dutch people and non-Dutch people, because they are residents of that province, while the Dutch residents living abroad can only count the registered ones. That system is so different, that also optimising the voting value in proportion is not only a technique, but also the question of who you're all counting. We're gonna talk about this under the law of execution, but I think some inconvenience will stay here forever. But we're not just here as "ordinary" legislators, we're also here as constitutions. That is the role in which we speak today. I would not make it too lyrical, but I would like to say that we have a beautiful Constitution, which also provides answers to all kinds of questions. There was a question, for example, about treaties that would squander our fundamental rights. Rule 91 says important things about that. Mr Van Hattem talked about what we should do with bulk data: should that not also be covered by Article 13? If that is the case, then I think that Article 13 (2) says exactly how it works: there is a possibility of containment under certain legal requirements. In other words, they are in the whole structure of the Constitution, and many of the things we are debating now are always on the left or right. Yes, here and there it is a bit historically dated, here and there there are parts that we would otherwise like to think about, for example, the monarchy; as far as I am concerned, that is quite different. But especially when it comes to the rule of law or the subjugation of the government and the government to the law, it is essential. That is why it was so beautiful at the King's swearing-in in 2013 that as a parliament we were allowed to witness the King who submitted to the Constitution. I remember it well: I was behind a pillar of the European Parliament, sometimes this is how it is, but there it was also obvious that the king was subjugated to the Constitution. As far as we are concerned, this is the essential point: nobody is above the law and the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. Yes, there is much to improve in our country, and in doing so, the fundamental rights of citizens and the democratic and constitutional principles are our guideline and our mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u227	That puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u228	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u229	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u230	I'm sorry to hear that Mr. Ganzevoort was behind a pillar with the king. But I just heard him say he'd like to change the kingship. That triggered my interest. How?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u231	Oh, it's no secret that GroenLinks has the starting point that a republic would be a very beautiful form. But as long as we have a king as head of state, I am very pleased that that head of state is subject to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u232	That proposal is not before us either. That's out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u233	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u234	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u235	I still have a small interruption about something that had remained in the first term. Mr Ganzevoort spoke to me when I was talking about what the application is to 'us as a government'. Then Mr Ganzevoort came forward and he said: wait a minute, that does not apply to us, because we as the First Chamber are not part of the government. We exchanged a few things about it earlier. Of course, we are not an administrative body in the sense of the Awb, but the First Chamber as High College of State is indeed part of the government. So my question to Mr Ganzevoort is: how should I indicate the remark he made in the first term? 'Cause I don't think I said anything wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u236	I am pleased that Mr Van Hattem thinks he has said nothing wrong, but as I know it, the government consists of the three powers, the trias politician. The co-legislators could also play a role in this, but I think it would be a blurring of the concept of "government" if we were to call Parliament, the parliament, part of the government. This does not alter the fact that MEPs are also committed to the Constitution. They promised to do that, and they'll have to stick to it. That's what I said we should talk to each other about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u237	Now it is a blur, but just now Mr Ganzevoort was definitely in my direction. He's right to say we're co-legislators. On government.nl we are also mentioned as one of the High Colleges of State as part of the government. This also makes the essence of this general provision important. It also refers to us as the First Chamber. Then how does Mr Ganzevoort view the application of Article 67 of the Constitution, particularly with regard to a digital quorum, which the Council of State has said is contrary to Article 67 of the Constitution and should not be applied outside emergency situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u238	Mr Van Hattem needs a very complicated reasoning to talk about Rule 67. I don't need that reasoning at all. We have sworn allegiance to the Constitution. So we have to stick to that, not because we are part of the government, but because we, as parliamentarians, have sworn that loyalty. That seems to me to be the essential thing. We have to stick to each other. The question whether this could have been raised via a digital quorum has been raised. An opinion has been requested from the Council of State. That advice has been weighed again here, and I think the outcome is that we are not going to do it. At least that's the last I heard. So I do not understand Mr Van Hattem's problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u239	Moreover, the subject is out of order. Mr. Van Hattem, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u240	There are many people in this house who are passionately in favour of such a digital quorum and who want to apply it on Mondays, for example, but I understand that Mr Ganzevoort agrees with me that it is contrary to Article 67 of the Constitution and that the Council of State has said: do not do it outside of acute emergencies. Then we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u241	I understand from the President that this is out of order, so I am not going to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u242	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u243	Furthermore, we may also be able to leave behind all the constitutional blurrings of today and enjoy a beautiful constitution with a very nice general provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u244	Then I can give the floor immediately to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as order is concerned, we have just established that the First Chamber is also within this legal system. So we should be able to talk about this, but okay. I'm coming to Thorbecke. Mr Van der Linden mentioned what Thorbecke would say in the first term. I looked at the documents Thorbecke wrote in 1848 when he revised the Constitution. He said about the First Chamber: "It will be but a cause of displeasure and dissension, where it does not follow." So Mr Thorbecke had some strong words for our First Chamber. It is sometimes good to think about that. It went a little further than just the criticism that she had no ground and no purpose. Mr. Chairman. I just said that as a standard address, the whole government is being used, including this First Chamber. With regard to Article 67, therefore, we must also deal with this consistently. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the democratic rule of law as a done fact. We've talked about that before. I notice that this general provision gives rise to the feeling that in the 1990s we also called 'Netherlands Guide Country'. Then I'll come back to a scream, well, I'll call it "Torbecke" with all due respect. In this piece, he also spoke of a "mortal dunk." I myself get that feeling when we beat ourselves up: the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law and we are the example for the whole world. As I pointed out in my first term, there is enough rottenness in the country and bad government action which shows too much that we cannot be a complete example and that we should not just be a guide country in the world with this Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u246	In 2012, this Chamber discussed a proposal to include a provision on a democratic rule of law. That was a proposal put aside by the government, which Mr Van Hattem's party was part of at the time in a tolerant construction. This room revitalized that. It was so nice that this also happened with the support of the PVV group. Mr Sörensen, in particular, said at the time: I believe that this provision should not only be a matter of establishing a fact, but that it should also mean that the Netherlands should be a democratic rule of law. So he gave it a normative character. Those were wise words from the PVV. What has happened that the PVV is now taking so much distance from it, as if it were a hypocritical or useless provision? Explain it to me, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u247	That is not all Mr Sörensen has said. We must, of course, strive to be a democratic rule of law. We have already discussed this in the first place. That is not a point of discussion. The question is: does a general provision provide for this to be firmly established in the pecking stone of the Constitution? I don't have that idea. Mr Sörensen also said that there must be a constant review of the democratic nature of our society. That should also be an effect. That is not at all clear from what is at stake. It was then an investigation that had to be carried out. That's what the motion called for. Then what has come has come into what is now before us. This has been dealt with in both chambers and has been assessed by the directly elected Second Chamber in two bodies and found too light by our group. In short, the motion did not deliver what was expected at the time. I have not spoken to Mr Sörensen, but perhaps he is also disappointed with what has been achieved so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u248	I only note that in 2012 the PVV was co-initiator of revitalising a trash proposal. This Chamber said: sorry, this is very important, especially with the words of Mr Sörensen that we should be a democratic rule of law. The PVV has also started to do so, as has my group. I therefore feel extra responsible for this bill. I didn't hear any arguments as to why what was then a good idea wasn't right anymore. Of course, any group can consider changing, but we can ask: what has changed? When we were allowed to be recognised as a democratic rule of law, we should not be allowed to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u249	You repeat your question. Do you have another answer, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u250	Look, the point is that we are a democratic rule of law and we should be. But this is not the effect that was possible at the time, based on what was then. We are now ten years away and we are an extravagant affair, in which the government has seriously wronged many citizens. We are dealing with the situation in which our farmers are being seriously wronged. There is no further democratisation at all. That is perhaps the most important thing and that is also what Mr Sörensen pointed out at the time. We didn't get referendums, we didn't get elected mayors and Commissioners et cetera. Everything has remained still in the field of further democratization. Democracy is on the verge of calving down. I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u251	Finally, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u252	The other motion that then revitalized a bill was the motion on the right to a fair trial. Has the PVV gone through such a change there, or is that bill now, as in 2012, receiving the support of the PVV Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u253	Next week, when there are votes, we will see if we will support them. Mr. Kox still owes him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u254	I know Mr Van Hattem as someone who often reads his pieces well. The question I have is a very simple one: does he think that this bill states "The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u255	The point is that it will be stated that fundamental rights are being pursued in the Netherlands, and I would like to remind you that the Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state. That is the general provision. I'm just gonna say it out of my head. I see Mr Ganzevoort shaking no. He must have just read it. I don't have it literally in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u256	The problem is that it is not correct and that Mr Van Hattem's whole reasoning is based on an incorrect reading of the text. It does not say "The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law." You can either agree with that or you can't. You can read it as a standard or as a description or whatever. But it doesn't say that at all. It says: "The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. If Mr Van Hattem keeps saying, 'The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law but it is not', then my question is: why is he acting against a bill that is not before us and why has he not read the text of the bill to reflect on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u257	I did read the text. It is not just about what is literally stated in the legal provision. It is also a question of the explanation given in the explanatory memorandum and in this Chamber, inter alia, by the Minister. I heard the Minister say clearly earlier: we are a democratic rule of law, that is our starting point, that is our objective. The explanation I have just mentioned is therefore certainly contained in it. I am not just concerned with what is literally written down, but with the fact that it is open to more than one explanation. You can explain it as being a guarantee function. You can explain it as something that needs to be actively pursued. You can also explain it as something that is determined by it. The way I see it, it's just too broad to explain. This is gonna cause a discussion. That's just too vague a piece. If you can apply so many multi-interpretable ways, you just have a bad piece in your Constitution. You just don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u258	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u259	But that bad piece, if it is, is not the bad piece that Mr Van Hattem means. He does not mention that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. He mentioned the following: we need the Netherlands to become a democratic constitutional state, to function in this way and to guarantee these fundamental rights. That is exactly what this proposal says. If Mr Van Hattem is still thinking about how they are going to vote next week, I would ask him to read the text once more as it says and ask himself: would this not be what we really want? This instead of acting against a piece that isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u260	It is not so much about what it says, but about how one acts, what one does. It is not by including this as a general provision in the Constitution in this way, or in any way, that you become a democratic rule of law. It's about how you act as a government. That's by dealing decently with extracurricular parents. That is by not extraditing your sovereignty to Brussels and by not pushing all these European regulations down the throats of our people. You make sure that the citizen gets a vote in that democracy and that you don't walk over that citizen through all kinds of unelected bodies. In the case of corona measures, for example, you ensure that you also guarantee fundamental rights properly. That has not happened in many places, for example around that curfew.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u261	The point is clear, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u262	This is a measure of the democratic rule of law and not of such a general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u263	I was going to say 'continue your speech', but I think Mr Koole still has a short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u264	Yes, a brief interruption as a follow-up to this. The beginning of Article 1 of our Constitution now reads: 'All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally'. Does Mr Van Hattem think that this is always an appropriate definition of reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u265	Well, I mentioned earlier that this is not the case. We now also have a constitutional change which, for example, favours Dutch voters who live abroad compared to voters who live in the Netherlands, including those lower deposits and so on. So that article is already not consistently applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u266	That's why I'm saying it. This is not a description of reality either. This is a description of a goal that we all pursue. If it says here "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally," that is the assignment to all of us, the government, however you define it, the Second and First Chambers, to ensure that this is achieved as much as possible. In the same way, you should look at a general provision. That's an assignment for all of us. It is not a description of reality, because we deviate from it on some points, sometimes quite flagrantly. I agree. You are not saying: delete Article 1, but rather, because it does not meet reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u267	Well, there could be a discussion about the usefulness and the current interpretation of Article 1. This may well be changed, but we have had this discussion before. The point is, first of all, make sure that as a government you have your affairs in order and first of all function and act as a democratic rule of law. We are not going to write so hypocritically that we are guaranteeing through this Constitution that we are a democratic rule of law, because you do not do that in practice. That's not gonna happen. Make sure, for example, that a PVV member can be appointed judge, mayor or commissioner of the King. It is now excluded on the basis of political preference. That is what a judge has literally said in the television programme. Just make sure that the children of these parents are treated properly or that our farmers are not harmed by this massive injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u268	Shouldn't we recite the whole list of examples? I give the floor to Mr Koole and then we finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u269	We are of course in agreement that it is necessary to ensure that the parents of the supplement affair are given justice. I note, on the contrary, that both Article 1 and the general provision now before us are encouraging and calling for that objective to be achieved. It is not a description of the goal that is still far away in some places, but it is about achieving the goal. Will Mr Van Hattem not achieve that goal? Does he not see in that general provision an incentive to achieve that objective?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u270	Come with a brief answer and continue your speech immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u271	I would not count the Constitution as a form of incentive. It just has to be an effective and necessary whole. That general provision does not in any way contribute to this. In fact, as I said, if you do not dare to take the step towards further democratisation, then you are not worthy to bear this title in your Constitution. Choose to enter the referenda. Then choose to introduce elected mayors. But don't let our voters down so much in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u272	I am now going to give Mr Van Hattem the opportunity to complete his speech. Then we get another round of interruptions. Otherwise, we'll never get through it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had stuck to the point: how democratic is it? We see in the House of Representatives today that the CDA withdraws the support of the Party of the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the correct binding referendum. It also demolishes a bit further democratisation of the Netherlands. In fact, this also undermines the objective of the democratic rule of law. Therefore, the democratic nature of the Netherlands is not further advanced, while more direct democracy, directly elected leaders and referenda are essential. Democracy is crumbling more and more. We saw it in the last municipal elections: turnout was dramatically low in many places. In many municipalities there was a minority of voters who were going to vote at all. It is precisely then that "a supplement to the representative system" is desirable. This quote came from 1981 and was expressed at the second reading of the constitutional changes, when a motion was tabled by Ed Nijpels of the VVD, together with Mr Wilbers of D66, on the introduction of a consultative referendum. Then all of a sudden it was possible. Where have the VVD and D66 gone since then? Why are they abandoning this democratisation? Show once again that you are worthy of the democratic rule of law and dare to take that step again. In 1981, it was possible, why not anno 2022? I also mentioned the structural lack of democratic legitimacy, from the Security Council to the European Commission. As an example, I would like to mention the proposal on the fight against disinformation by the EU, which also directly affects the fundamental right of freedom of expression. We do not see any intention to improve this and certainly not with this general provision in our hands. He doesn't contribute to that. Moreover, how are the fundamental rights of our farmers secured by this general provision? I refer in particular to Article 20 of the Constitution, to the security of existence, and to Article 19 (3) on the free choice of employment. Is there anything to be said about that? Finally. I had asked the Minister in the first place how this general provision relates to Article 68 of the Constitution on the provision of information to Parliament. We once again had the situation today that we had black-painted pages in a decision note. If we really take this general provision seriously, can we just get all the pieces we want from now on, without completely black-painted pages? Can the Minister clarify that? Or is that general provision not worth a snipe in that respect too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u274	Thank you. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u275	I have a quick question. I will be brief, because I heard some members of D66 sigh when I walked to the microphone, so for some people it seems to take a little too long. I agree with Mr Van Hattem's observations that this democratization is not so much a deadlock, but rather a retreating movement. How does Mr Van Hattem explain that? What, then, does he think is so afraid that everything actually becomes less democratic than more? It's not gonna work. That elected mayor is not going to be there, the provinces, you name it... how does Mr Van Hattem explain that? What is one afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u276	Would you be brief, Mr. Van Hattem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u277	Then I'll just keep it brief. "Make it short," said Van Oldenbarnevelt. People are afraid of the citizens. That's basically what it's all about. The voice of the citizen. The influence of the citizen. Everything should simply go through the beaten paths that are being set out in Brussels. We see it in the Natura 2000 policy and so on. They dare not deviate for an inch from it. The nitrogen measures will and must continue. And if our citizen or our farmer wants something else, then there is immediate panic here in The Hague and every effort is made to eliminate that influence, that direct democracy, as much as possible. That is why I said: did the VVD and D66, including Mr Nijpels himself today, have as much courage as in 1981 and only once came up with a proposal to make a referendum possible. Now it's getting ruined again. This means that democracy will continue to fall into the drain and the electorate will be even further away from our government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u278	The short answer is: the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u279	People are afraid of the citizens. I think that, unfortunately, is correct, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u280	Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions in this debate. I'm gonna highlight one thing that's gotten a little snowy. I was pleased to hear that the Minister is also going to pay attention to 175 years of Constitution in education. We have heard beautiful and sometimes less beautiful reflections here today about the importance of the Constitution. I think it is also very important that we make young people aware of the importance of the Constitution, in particular its practical impact. I look forward to the proposals put forward by the government to highlight the importance of the Constitution in education. Then I would like to congratulate Caspar van den Berg on his maiden speech, also from the liberal perspective. That was very interesting to hear. I look forward to next debates with Mr Van den Berg to see if he will continue to follow that line. Mr. Chairman. I've spent a long time thinking about the right to a fair trial. I have tried to give this concrete hands and feet because, despite the fine reflections, the citizens end up standing in front of the government in a courtroom, sometimes they really have the government as an opponent and they don't see the government as a fair opponent either. We have already heard the Minister himself about the child care scandal, but there are, of course, other examples to give. I have mentioned a number of them. On some of these points, the Minister has given a clear answer. I immediately admitted that a large part of the examples I put forward are actually in the field of JenV's colleagues, so I imagine that in discussions with the two ministers I will deal specifically with some of them. But I have missed one thing, and I think this Minister can answer that. This is about when the government has made a mistake in relation to a citizen, which also recognises and says that it is going to redeploy: we are going to make up for that in a settlement agreement, we are going to compensate that citizen and then it must be over. In itself, it is very good that that happens. As a lawyer, I've done that kind of business with the state attorney myself. Such a settlement agreement always includes: we are not going to bring out how much money we pay or what the exact reasons are. My first-term thesis was that you have to learn from your mistakes. We are also trying to bring forward an open governance culture at other levels. Can we not change this standard provision in the adoption agreements that the government concludes with citizens, so that it is more open? Of course, it may sometimes be that the citizen does not want certain amounts or reasonings to come out. Then we have to look at that in a different way. However, I would like an answer from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u282	That'll get you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u283	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u284	Then I ask you to finish your story, because you are well over your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u285	As far as the electoral college is concerned, I am very sorry that the Minister has calculated that it will no longer be possible to run the next elections through the new system in 2023. Suppose the House of Representatives would still deal with the implementing law before the summer recess, I don't know exactly how it stands with that, and that we do so just after the summer recess, assuming that we would succeed, it's not too complicated and we adopt that implementing law in October. Surely there wouldn't be an opportunity to apply it before the elections of 2023? So my question to the Minister is to take a look at that. Of course, voting values are quite complicated. But who knows, it's gonna work anyway. In any case, I am speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. So that's just D66's and not the Animal Party's. We want to do our best to deal with this as quickly as possible, but in a careful way. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more point. That is telecommunications and the technology-neutral way of doing things. The Minister has correctly described the demarcation between Articles 10 and 13. I have no further comments to make. So this is the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u286	Mr Dittrich talks about fixing agreements, in which confidentiality is often agreed. Is Mr. Dittrich familiar with the Silenced No More Act in California? That is a very interesting aspect. That's what I'm getting at, because that's what you're talking about. Are you familiar with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u287	Yeah, I'm familiar with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u288	I ask Mr Dittrich whether he believes that this is a very... For the people who aren't familiar with it, I say that's a law in California that forbids...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u289	Mr. Otten, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u290	Well, this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u291	At least this law isn't ahead of us now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u292	No, but Mr Dittrich raised the issue of fixing agreements. I don't. This is a very topical issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u293	Very briefly, then. No, this is not a topical debate. This is about changes in the Constitution of the Netherlands. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u294	That law prohibits the possibility, in the case of sexualharassment, of determining a determination agreement on confidentiality. So that is a very effective instrument. That is why I ask Mr Dittrich to deal with this in this kind of matter, in which people are silenced, and we have seen it all recently in the Netherlands, through such a prohibition on fixing agreements, for confidentiality. Does Mr Dittrich agree with me that this is a very effective measure to combat such practices? So I came up with this idea because he brought it up himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u295	In the context of the current constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u296	My answer to Mr Otten, of course in the context of the right to a fair trial, is that you can sometimes use examples from abroad to draw inspiration. Of course, that doesn't mean that you would have to take over a California law here one-on-one. Of course, we have our own legal order, our own system, which is really different from the legal system in California, but sometimes you can get inspiration from abroad. That is why it is good to realise that we are part of Europe and that we are working with other countries in Europe. I can see Mr Otten nodding. It is very important for the Netherlands to be aware that we are part of the European family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u297	Thank you, Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the careful answer to the questions put. I would like to come back to the horizontal functioning of Article 13 of the Constitution, which would not fit in with the system of the Constitution if I understood the Minister so well; I heard her say that, I think. But Article 1 of the Constitution, which deals with equal treatment and which contains the prohibition of discrimination, does have horizontal effect. This provision therefore applies between citizens, while it also lays down non-discrimination clauses in a wide range of underlying legislation. I would therefore like an even more convincing answer from the Minister as to why this horizontal effect of Article 13 really could not be achieved. Mr. Chairman. I also had a chat with Mr Van den Berg, whom I congratulate on his maiden speech. This was about the Minister's term calculation in the event that the Lower House may not be able to complete a constitutional revision at second reading in time due to an early cabinet fall. I agree in advance with the questions that Mr Van den Berg is going to ask about this. Mr. Chairman. All things considered and following the debate, I will advise my group to vote in favour of all constitutional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u299	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Through you I say to Mr Van den Berg that I have just walked past Mr Philipse's portrait to see if there are any similarities in appearance. I must say, it hasn't been easy to distinguish them. However, in your beautiful maiden speech, you have said that you can partly agree with Philipse's contribution to what has been put forward in Parliament. In particular, you pointed out that he was impressed by the quality of the organic laws. That also applies to the Constitution, because that too is a good thing. We are going to make them even more beautiful with proposals that are being discussed today. I stated in my first term that this concerns, for example, the right to a fair trial. Today, in this Chamber, the proposal to include a general provision in the Constitution has been considered for a very long time. Mr Kox has now looked at the documents to see what the voting behaviour of the various groups has been like in the past. He said you can turn. He also pointed out that at least it was not the CDA group that supported the English motion at the time. I have also referred to the voting behaviour and arguments of my predecessor, Mr Van Bijsterveld, who, on behalf of the CDA, called the bill "too much an empty shell" on this point. Mr. Chairman. I have myself pointed out that there is quite a lack of convincing support in the report of the State Committee on the strengthening of the normality of this article. The Minister has just mentioned this. She said that, of course, you can ask the constitutionalist as a standard address whether this provision could also be an extra lock on the door, as I would just like to say in my own words. But then we also see a great deal of discussion about what you mean by the concepts contained in that general provision, in particular the concept of 'democratic rule of law'. The question is, of course, whether it actually works that way. Is the Constitution in such a way that you will be able to assess that general provision in due course, and do we want it to be? Maybe that's a discussion that we can't quite end. However, following the interruption debate I had with Mr Koole and Mr Ganzevoort, the Minister pointed out the symbolic importance of that provision. The Minister points out that the provision, regardless of its exact wording, calls on the government to behave as a democratic rule of law. I can feel something about that. I have pointed out in my contribution that my group prefers this in concrete actions, perhaps also legislative actions, whether or not following the report of the new State Rule of Law Committee. If you talk about symbolism, which is in line with Van den Berg's maiden speech, then you can also talk about making the Constitution alive. The Minister himself came up with the examples when it comes to civic education. In short, Mr President. You can see the CDA group asking whether it should also turn. Then the question is how the legal lovers, I say, relate to the pluses that you could give in terms of the symbolic effect. That is what we shall consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u301	Mr Doornhof has well-founded, eloquence criticism of that general provision. At the same time, he says that he also considers a symbolic provision very important. Could he perhaps explain to me how something which the Minister thinks should be used in normative terms is a normative provision which, as a general provision in the Constitution, relates to a symbolic function, a symbolic provision? Is it symbolic now or is it normative now? Those are two very different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u302	Perhaps it is a good thing that Mr Van Hattem is asking me that question. I have just seen in the debate that took place between you and Mr Ganzevoort in particular, that there may be some discussion about what you are talking about. When you talk about the normative nature of the general provision, you're really thinking legally. Then you have to answer the question: what is the constitutionalist going to do about this general provision when he talks about proposals to amend the Constitution? Are we going to test it and then discuss: what is a democratic rule of law? That's one. So that is separate from the exact wording. That is why, frankly, I did not quite understand what Mr. Van Hattem wanted to tell Mr.Ganzevoort. It has nothing to do with the exact wording, because you could say it's an assignment to the constitutionalist. However, apart from that exact wording, you can of course say that if that concept is in the Constitution at all and that Constitution is intended to guarantee the democratic rule of law, that of course reflects on the government: we want to abide by the Constitution, of course. Apparently, the Constitution is intended to uphold the democratic rule of law, so you do so. So far, there's a reflex effect. Secondly, it is also symbolic, I say again to Mr Van Hattem. This is also recognised by the Thomasses State Commission. You also make that clear to the citizen, but of course you do it through education or in other ways. You will also make it clear to the citizens, with your text of the Constitution itself, what the whole Constitution is meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u303	It is important for the history of law that we are now clear. The Minister has made it clear that it has a normative effect. We are now hearing all kinds of intentions for a constitutional review and so on. If this general provision is to be examined in the near future, even by us as a constitutionalist if we have to examine it, then it has a normative purpose, given the Minister's ruling. I think that the Minister's intention will be looked at in particular in this context. How does Mr Doornhof of the CDA judge this legislative approach? Is this symbolic interpretation not subordinate to this normative approach, which has been so explicitly laid down here? Can we make it clear, for the history of law, how this should be interpreted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u304	You understand me, don't you? I've got the Secretary of State very high up. In addition to what the State Committee has said, it has also highlighted how to give a certain normative character to that provision and how to strengthen the normative nature of the Constitution. But since, for example, we are going to talk about constitutional review, the question is, of course, whether the judge considers a single explanation or statement of today's minister to be so important that he says: this means that I have to check my explanation of the whole system of the Constitution and how certain fundamental rights relate to each other. So the first question is: does it work exactly this way and, if so, to what extent? Of course, you will also have questions about the interpretation of the concept of the democratic rule of law. You say to me: we need to be as sharp with a view to the future. But I cannot say exactly how that will work in the near future, not how we deal with that provision and not how the courts deal with it in the event of a constitutional review. That means that this provision raises quite a few questions in this respect, and I will stick to that. However, the Minister should really put that aside. It also came with very good arguments, for example that it also has a very important symbolic function. So how are you gonna weigh those two things against each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u305	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u306	Finally, Mr President. Does Mr Doornhof share with me that it is perhaps good for the provision that, if this law is adopted, what I do not hope, at least the intention of the legislator is made clear? Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister to come back to that again in the second term, otherwise we will have to ask through an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u307	Finally, Mr. Doornhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u308	I think the Minister has said good things about that part of the general provision. I do not know if she could add anything that could be helpful in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u309	I would like to return to the word 'turn' used by Mr Doornhof. I think he is actually failing the CDA Group. We have a debate here, the Minister has given arguments and has also answered questions you have asked. Then it may well be that you are making a different assessment than at first reading, for example. That is not going to happen, but in the context of a debate you might be persuaded by what another, in this case the Minister, is putting forward. I think the word "turn" has such a negative look. The hallmark of a debate is that you are listening and that you are weighing up again. And if you bring it out clearly, that's very good. I just wanted to give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u310	And your question is whether Mr Doornhof agrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u311	These are, of course, very encouraging words from Mr Dittrich. I must also admit that it was a bit crazy in the direction of Mr Kox. After all, he confronted the PVV group hard with voting in favour at the time, while the PVV group is now apparently going to do something different. I just wanted to say that we would make a different kind of 'turn' if we were to say yes to the general provision. I have said that we are going to discuss this in the group, but I believe I have also highlighted the dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u312	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kox on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u313	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Caspar van den Berg. I have listened with interest to a thorough argument. Since he has certainly been watching, I would like to draw Joop van den Berg's attention to the fact that today we have done our best not to lead us off with a whim-off. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for her reply. She didn't answer all my questions. She couldn't have answered all my questions, but she could have answered a lot. That's what she's done open and thorough. That's how we should have more, I'd say. We also have more, of course, but it is meant as a compliment, Madam Secretary. All day long I listened with interest to the debate and to your way of reacting. You referred to Donker Curtius' statement that the task of the First Chamber is not so much to do the useful, but to prevent evil. Now that sounds worse than it is, but that is why this Chamber has a right of veto. In the end, this Chamber must say, weighing everything, that it is better not to do so. If we don't say that, it's on. The same applies to these legislative proposals. I think we talked about that very well. My group is in favour of five of the six legislative proposals. The sixth, about the electoral college for non-residents, I found too artificial from the beginning. That's not meant to be negative, but it's too artfully put together. So I don't think that's a long life. So we shouldn't take over. I had already voted in favour of the other five proposals at first reading, but I see no reason to go back to that. In the direction of my colleague, Mr Doornhof, I said that I used the word 'turn', but I did not mean that in any way, even when I said it to Mr Van Hattem. Of course, you cannot say that at second reading you should automatically say the same thing as what you said the first time. That wouldn't make any sense. I think it is very good what Mr Doornhof says: well, the Minister has done her best to win the entire Chamber for the legislative proposals she is defending, which she did not come up with herself but defends in an extremely professional way. So I look forward to final decision-making in the CDA group. I will always respect the outcome, however it fails. The same goes for the PVV. I have tried to point out that there were times when the PVV Group here said: everything weighs well, especially if we are going to do it, it is good that it is indeed not the inclusion of a fact in the Constitution, because you should not do so, but that it is also an objective, something we should be doing. So I hope that, in particular, the two legislative proposals will be able to achieve the legislative proposal on the right to a fair trial and the general provision if we vote here. Because I think that we, as the First Chamber, have made ourselves a little co-responsible by putting the proposals that have been served back on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u314	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would like to add my congratulations to Mr Van den Berg. A beautiful maiden speech. Wish much wisdom and blessing, even in the future. Many thanks, of course, to the Minister for the many answers and the nice conversation we had with each other. Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to three legislative proposals. That's 35785, first of all, about the electoral college. It has been discussed with a number of colleagues, including the way in which we deal with the constitutional system on a geographical basis. The Minister has made it clear, even in the documents before us, that she has tried to remove an imbalance. But to the taste of my group there is a new imbalance in place, and perhaps even inequality. I have one more question about the implementation path. The Minister has indicated that she will need six months to do so. So, what do you think we're gonna do with the math? Is the moment of calculation 15 March, at the Provincial State elections, or is the moment of calculation 30 May, at the First Chamber elections? I assume it should be the first, otherwise there would be a new inequality. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal 35786, the general provision, has been presented to us as a sober provision. But the debate has made it clear to me that it is a very rich provision. All kinds of democracy could be put underneath. I very much welcome the Minister's clarity on the side-by-side arrangement of all the articles of the Constitution. However, I have not yet received a direct answer from her, so I would like to ask again whether it is a first-rate provision or whether she sees it as some sort of umbrella provision. I also think that I have not heard very clearly why we do not see human dignity, the right to life, the separation of powers or the independence of the judiciary. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention one more aspect. Even if my group does not support this amendment of the constitution, it does not affect the consistent attitude of the SGP to democracy, the rule of law and the Constitution with fundamental rights. There is also a certain consistency in the attitude of the SGP in the sense that I have just looked at what was going on in 2012. In any event, my predecessor, Mr Holdijk, did not vote in favour of the motion in question. Mr. Chairman. Then the final topic. That is 35789, the review of the constitutional review procedure. It's a wonderful word. I just counted; it's got 29 letters. I don't think it fits on a Scrabble board, but, well, you can always take it and maybe cut something off. It is clearly a strengthening of the democratic process. The Minister emphasized this once again. But there's a next bill coming up, which is actually related to this. That is why I am a little afraid of the pleadings of coherence which Mr Koole pointed out. That is 35533, the discussion of two readings of constitutional changes in a united assembly. It's gonna be here in the future. There is coherence in this. But I think that the democratic nature of parliamentary treatment is affected precisely by this forthcoming law, while this law strengthens it. This is a bit of a profit warning for next time. Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about two second readings. That means a two-thirds majority. Let me make everyone happy to say that the SGP will support two thirds of the legislative proposals before us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u316	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then Mr Van den Berg on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u317	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking all my fellow Members for all the kind words that I regard as encouraging. This is a day that is very special for me and which I can look back on with great pleasure, because of that maiden speech. I was also allowed to make a maiden interruption. The President's reaction was that this still needs some exercise in form, so I am going to try to do my best. I would also like to thank the Minister for the careful and patient answer of all the questions, as it has been this evening. There are three points on which I would like to return briefly. I asked the Minister whether it was not also an idea to include something in the general provision: 'we, the citizens of the Netherlands'. And that's for two reasons. On the one hand, to specify specifically whose Constitution the Constitution is and also what the specific of the Dutch Constitution would be. Secondly, it could be seen from such a notion that all public authority ultimately finds its legitimacy in the citizens who together form the political community; in other words, the same kind of view of popular sovereignty as Mr Koole has put forward. The Minister actually outlined a nice continuum, from the one hand sober and businesslike that general provision and on the other hand the more historical, cultural form to do so. I conclude from this that my group would have preferred to go a little bit more towards historical culture on that spectrum. The minister's a little bit more on the sober and business side. I still believe that the addition of this general provision has added value to the current situation and that it strengthens the Constitution. That is my first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u318	Finish your story, because you have little time left, and then Mr Van Hattem will be able to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u319	The second is the review procedure, which Mrs Baay mentioned briefly. I asked whether the Minister would like to consider whether solutions could be found. It outlines a minimum time schedule of eight months. I believe that this is based on a number of assumptions which are plausible but which do not necessarily have to be so in practice. At the same time, I agree with the Minister that adding a hardness clause can also provoke all kinds of strategic behaviour. Since there are not many other solutions, I think we should accept that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u320	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u321	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u322	From this point on, I would once again like to congratulate Mr Van den Berg on his very beautiful maiden speech. But I also have a question. I hear Mr van den Berg in favour of actually extending that general provision, giving citizens a place in it, including a piece of popular sovereignty; a fine thought in itself. If you really want to give the citizens something, I wonder whether it is not much better to go straight to the fish and take steps where that citizen has something more to say in that democratic rule of law, and to give the citizen the opportunity to speak out in a referendum, as your fellow party Nijpels said in 1981.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u323	I think it is very difficult to put it that way in a preamble. I don't think it's meant for that either. I understand Mr Van Hattem's point, but I think we should also see the limitations of what you can say in a preamble or a general provision. This proposal contains a number of points which I think Mr Doornhof has rightly pointed out. That is the last point I wanted to make, namely that this cabinet is also implementing the provision in the government agreement on constitutional review. The discussion about this is, of course, complicated now, because we are dealing with a moving target. We do not yet know what this constitutional review can look like. But there may still be points in that. I also asked the Minister this question in my first term, but she has not yet addressed it, namely: what does this general provision mean for the variants of constitutional review in preparation? Are we indeed making a review standard here? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u324	Can we leave it at that, Mr. Van Hattem? There's been a lot of interruptions today. The same goes for Mr. Otten. One more question, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u325	I have not yet had the honour of interrupting Mr Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u326	I'll ask you one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u327	The most famous preamble is, of course, "We the People" from the American Constitution. In the 1950s, confessional forces tried to get God as the creator of the Constitution in the preamble. That didn't work out at the time. Does Mr Van den Berg agree with me that the fact that we do not have such a preamble as 'We the People', which is true in many countries, is caused by the fact that our Constitution creates a sort of hierarchy between the government and the citizen rather than that it is carried more from the citizen itself? Is this perhaps also related to the fear of the citizen we were talking about during Mr Van Hattem's contribution? How does Mr Van den Berg see that, as an expert in this field, of preambles?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u328	However, I should like to ask Mr Van den Berg to give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u329	I will respond briefly. As far as I am concerned, the answer to Mr Otten's question is no. The Constitution as it stands with us has this sober, business-like character in which we actually see the pen of Thorbecke. At the same time, you can say a lot about Thorbecke, but not that he believed, as you are now suggesting, that the government and the citizen relate in a hierarchical or distant way. So I don't see that connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u330	Thank you. I call Mr Koole of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the very careful answer to the many questions. It was a very nice debate. It may have taken a while, but I think it is worth it, because we are talking about constitutional proposals. The Constitution is of great importance to all of us, as I understand it. The Constitution now includes a topic of the democratic rule of law and fundamental rights. I must add that I forgot for a moment when I thanked the Minister for replying that I am doing so once today on behalf of another party, the Nanninga Group. Mr Van der Linden did not ask for any speaking time, but asked me to at least give a thank you to the Minister. That's what I did on this one. I was at the democratic rule of law and the general provision. I think it is very good that that provision should be added. We in the Labour Party will also vote in favour of all five other proposals. I have a few comments to make. I think it is wonderful that the Minister has talked about the importance of civic education on the Constitution to re-enhancing each generation of the importance of the Constitution and of the values contained in the Constitution. I have one more question. Why do we not explicitly include the independence and impartiality of the courts in the Constitution, perhaps in a subsequent constitutional amendment? I believe that it was Tijn Kortmann, Professor of State Law in Nijmegen, who thought 25 years ago that it was an omission that the Dutch Constitution did not contain so many words. We often take the measure of other countries as regards the impartiality and independence of judges, but we must be able to derive it from the other provisions. That is true, and the tradition is quite good in that respect, but perhaps it is also useful to say that again. Finally, our fine little debate on the general provision on popular sovereignty and democracy. I said that the Minister might be a little too afraid of that, and then she said that she is not afraid of anything at all, at least not before she said that she is not very afraid, I hear her say now. I certainly accept that, but I would ask the Minister to have some understanding for the interpretation of the concept of 'public sovereignty' or, as Mr Van den Berg just said, 'for the citizens' influence'. I myself described it as 'democracy as a state authority is based on the consent, directly or indirectly, of the people and of the citizens'. I heard in the debate just now, when it was about the security regions and Mayor Kruls and what the democratic legitimacy of that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u332	Bruts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u333	Kruls?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u334	Bruts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u335	Kruls.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u336	Bruts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u337	Bruts. Did I say Pruls?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u338	You said Kruls.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u339	Bruls, sorry! In that little debate I heard the Minister say that there was a democratic legitimacy underneath it, because 'people elected by other people have decided to do so'. That is actually a slightly different expression of popular sovereignty. I would therefore like to ask whether the doom of that concept is going to fall. The Minister does not want to take it into account in his Rousseaus, who indeed says that people's sovereignty should be absolute and unlimited. But there are many other thinkers who don't say that. I said at the beginning of my speech that the democratic rule of law can only be there if democracy is also prayed for in that constitutional embedding and in those constitutional frameworks. If we take it as such that democracy is based on the consent of the people, directly or indirectly, then I think we have explained the idea of democracy in the general provision a little bit more. I ask the Minister to come back to that and reflect further on it. Thanks again to the Minister. Thank you, too, to my fellow Members. I really liked the debate. We shall therefore vote in favour of all the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u340	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying and thank you to colleagues for the debate. The question of how De Savornin Lohman and Philipse would feel about all the constitutional commendations that we have heard here today in the Chamber, I leave it untouched. I myself am happy to look back at the debate. Mr. Chairman. We can count on our support for five of the six proposals. As far as the general provision is concerned, we are really still in dubio. I have already mentioned it with the Minister: the Council of State calls the text 'declaratory symbolic, with a weak normative meaning at most' and wonders what the added normative meaning of this provision is. Frankly, that question continues to concern my group. As far as the standard address is concerned, I would remind you that the same Council of State already considered not to designate a specific standard address, the constitutionalist, but to determine, in accordance with the proposal of the State Commission, that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law, with the advantage of removing the suggestion that it is only the Constitution that guarantees the democratic rule of law. That was precisely the text of the operative part of the English motion, which is, I say, paraphrased: express that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. That was exactly the text of the motion. Why, in the final legislative text before us, 'the Constitution guarantees' and so on, my group does not want to be clear even after the first-term response. To be honest, my group strongly sympathizes with the conclusion reached by Adams and Leenknegt of the Tilburg Law School in their article in Ars Aequi. I quote: "Now a little concrete provision is being proposed that should be given a place in the Constitution that is legally understood as significant. That combination does not seem to us to be optimally chosen." As far as I'm concerned, that's a significant understatement. That is what Oomen's vision is against, as Mr Kox has pointed out with fire. I paraphrase them as follows: the proposal is not perfect, but it is very important. The final balance between these two points will be made by my group in the next week. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u342	May I ask Mr Talsma to include the following in this consideration? This is quite a provision. The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. It would be very nice if such a provision, which we all agree on in essence, were adopted as widely as possible by this Chamber. We can say that you need a two-thirds majority, but actually such a provision deserves unanimous support if it is possible. Can the Christian Union Group take into account that in this case it is a very good signal to everyone that this Chamber would be virtually unanimous on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u343	I know it was not the reason why Mr Kox came forward, but he does give me the reason to thank him publicly here and square for his passionate plea for this provision and the way in which he did it. I mean that sincerely. Of course, he can count on that, and his personal part in it, to be decisive in the assessment that my group will make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u344	I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u345	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations again to Mr Van den Berg on his maiden speech. I have already had the opportunity to interact with Mr Van den Berg. Like the previous speaker, I also looked at the portrait of his ancestor in the hallway. I see some resemblance after all. The somewhat serious, somewhat harsh look I immediately saw in the look of Master Philipse, who has been President of the Chamber for no less than eighteen years, from 1852 to 1870. You have many years to go in this respect. Mr. Chairman. I have an interruption from Mr Schalk before I have started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u346	Mr Schalk is going to respond to something you have yet to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u347	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten began, of course, by congratulating Mr Van den Berg. He also just posted an interruption. I didn't want to complicate it then by interrupting him, but Mr Otten said something that stuck with me. He said he thought confessional parties believe that God is the creator of the Constitution. I just wanted to correct that by saying that confessions believe that God is the creator of heaven and earth. He has given a great law, the ten commandments, which are beneficial to all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u348	I did not say it exactly as Mr Schalk says it now. I said, in the 1950s, there was an attempt from a confessional angle to get such a preamble in the Constitution, that this Constitution was given to us by God. I mentioned the exact words I have just lost. That didn't happen at the time. That was for clarification. It is good to see that Mr Schalk is working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u349	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u350	Of course, we have the ten commandments high on our plate. "Thou shalt not lie" I would like to pass on to the Minister for Housing under the Environment Act. Mr. Chairman. We are looking back at an interesting debate on the numerous constitutional changes. Thank you to the Minister for the answer and the interaction. As said, we were interrupted by a wonderful intermezzo with the Minister for Housing on the Environment Act. We are looking back at an interesting debate. Mr. Chairman. The Lokin-Sassen/Koole motion, which implements the right to a fair trial for an independent and impartial judge in the Constitution, is a very good solution. The electoral college in the First Chamber for the 1 million foreign voters is also an urgently needed modernisation. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Schalk. Times have really changed. Of course, there are many more Dutch people living abroad now than in the 1950s, which we were just talking about. The technical means are also very different. People are much better informed. As far as we are concerned, this is an urgent modernisation. We agree with Mr Dittrich's request that I should have asked the Minister to make every effort to introduce this for the first parliamentary election of 2023. Because it's not that complicated. If you can derail the biggest legislative project since 1848 in a few months, then this should certainly be managed well in a year. We therefore agree with that request. Maybe the Minister can promise that she'll really do her best to make that happen. I would like to point out that various parliaments, such as Italy, France and Portugal, have special seats reserved for residents abroad. This is not so revolutionary, as I say to the SGP. Then there is the general provision on the objective of the Netherlands being a democratic rule of law. I agree with Mr Koole that this is primarily an objective. This has not been achieved as well everywhere, as Mr Van Hattem pointed out. Of course it's nice to confess this with the mouth, but as we can conclude, it doesn't always come out very well in practice. There is still a certain fear for the citizen, fear of letting the strings be celebrated. As far as we are concerned, it is unfounded. We don't have that fear. The democratic legitimacy of, for example, the security regions and the many appointed officials is a fundamental issue, which is an important cause of the disappearance of confidence in politics. I did not find the Minister very clear as to what exactly is the democratic legitimacy of Mr Bruls. Not Kruls but Bruls, I say to Mr Koole. As far as we are concerned, that was not quite clear. That is the problem: if the Minister is not able to explain it properly, how is the citizen supposed to understand it? Mr President, I will conclude. As I said in the first term, we will vote in favour of all the proposals, so that at least a two-thirds majority, if not more, can be achieved for these important constitutional changes. We thank the Minister and everyone for the very interesting debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u351	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. I'm suspending on request until 10:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u352	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u353	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Members for the exchanges of views we have had on these important issues. Questions have been asked about a number of aspects. Mr Ganzevoort asked about the Caribbean countries. Let me briefly explain. As Mr Ganzevoort said, Dutch legislation does not apply in the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. It particularly affects the Dutch who have lived in the Netherlands for a long time in the past. This group of Dutch people does have the right to vote in the Lower House and, on the basis of the Constitutional proposal, also gets it for the new electoral college for the Upper Chamber. As has already been discussed, the reason for not giving other inhabitants of the Caribbean a right to vote in the Chamber is to prevent these people from having a double right to vote, both for the representative bodies of the countries and for the Lower House. Conversely, of course, we do not have the right to vote for the States of those countries. If you wanted to have this discussion, you would also have to involve him much more broadly from that perspective. Otherwise, you will find yourself in the situation that it is for the First Chamber, but not for the Second Chamber. In my opinion, Mr Ganzevoort's portee is: think about these matters too, because they are important for democracy there too. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked: what about the horizontal effect of Article 1? It follows, of course, mainly from the General Law on Equal Treatment and from a number of criminal law provisions. So there it is, as with the Telecommunications Act, also in the horizontal provision. So it is not so much in the Constitution, but in the underlying legislation. In that sense, you see a parallel there. On the basis of the articles of the Constitution, the horizontal effect is, in fact, fully reflected in the underlying legislation. Mr Dittrich asked what the Minister's views were on the fixing agreements and the confidentiality declarations. It's about private law. Citizens' interests must be protected from disclosure. People who make a deal don't usually want all this to go public. Their privacy must therefore also be protected on the other hand. The interests of the State may also oppose disclosure, as a third party may know what the State has done in similar cases. This may harm the negotiating position and the procedural position of the State. There really is an explicit difference with the example from California that was put forward. That was the issue of preventing by means of silent money that someone was known to have committed sexual crimes. This is a matter which is fundamentally different from that of private law in the context of a non-disclosure agreement. Mr Van den Berg asked how a general provision relates to the constitutional review. I say to Mr Van den Berg that it is difficult for me to imagine that the judge is also directly assessing the general provision, because the general provision does not contain a very concrete standard, but is intended as a task for the prime legislator and as an interpretation framework for posts, bodies and administrations. Mr. Chairman. In that context, there was also a question about 175 years of Constitution. I'll come in the autumn with a letter on that. In particular, when it comes to the educational aspects, I think that it is particularly important to look at the activities that ProDemos is doing in this context. Mr Van den Berg also asked about the eight months and whether the assumptions were plausible. For the shortest option I actually based myself on the year 2002/2003. Then you end up at eight months, because then the cabinet fell pretty fast. There were pretty quick elections. In fact, there has never been a period throughout history in which the formation of the cabinet, the fall of the cabinet and the elections have taken an even shorter period. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole also asked for impartiality and independence. For me, it is indeed the derivation from other provisions and not at the moment any other interpretation of them. I also appreciated the exchange of views on popular sovereignty. I do conclude that, however modest that role may be, I still think the role of the King in our state system is important. So maybe that's why I can't quite embrace the word 'people's sovereignty', when we simply share the value that lies underneath it, namely that our inhabitants have an influence on the formation of parliament and on the decision-making that is taking place in our country. I'll recognize that. Let me make a comment on the implementation of the English motion. I would like to stress once again that it specifically called for a general provision to be included in the Constitution that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. When it comes to the words that have been used, the amendment tabled by the VVD in the Lower House does more justice to the English motion than the original proposal before the Council of State, because in the operative part of the English motion it is very clearly stated "to make a proposal for the formulation of a general provision stating that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law'. Indeed, our general provision states that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u354	Minister, I would like to allow Mr Van Hattem, who has been waiting for a while, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u355	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u356	I have just heard the Minister say that the general provision 'I try to quote it just as well 'is the interpretation framework for officials, officials and public services, if I paraphrase the Minister properly. It was difficult for the Minister to imagine that there might be a judicial review of this if a constitutional review was possible. It is precisely that framework of interpretation that could, of course, have the effect that if something is interpreted on the basis of that general provision, for example, a certain implementation of laws and rules, I'll just mention what the judge can eventually look around the corner. Can the Minister explain how that could develop if we now adopt that general provision and then have that constitutional review? Because that interpretation framework, the name says it is already going to ensure the interpretation of laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u357	By that interpretation framework, I do mean that the bodies, the offices and the people who work for this purpose when drawing up the low-regulation framework also explicitly look at the general provision as a framework within which they think. If I think further about Mr Van Hattem's question, I would rather see that the general provision in the background can play a role in the judicial review of other constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u358	As a result, Mr Otten, including one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u359	Mr President, we are talking about a lot of constitutional changes, so we must be able to have a normal debate on this. But this aside. I would like to thank the Minister for replying just now, because that clarifies exactly the point I was trying to make with Mr Van den Berg, but that was not entirely the case at the time, namely the role of the Head of State in our Constitution. That's what I meant by the hierarchical relationships, which are different from, for example, the "We the People" in America. Surely there is a rather solid role for the Head of State, the King, in our Constitution. I just heard the minister say it himself. How does this relate to the general provision on the democratic rule of law? You could argue that you should go more towards a more ceremonial kingship, as in countries like Sweden and other Scandinavian countries, in order to give that role a more ceremonial character within the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u360	But that question is not at all ahead of us, Mr. Otten. I would like to take this up with you, but you have now asked a few hundred questions. We've been at it for ten hours. You complain that we are not having a serious debate. I would like to give the Minister a chance to give one answer, but you will not have the opportunity to answer another question in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u361	Sorry, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u362	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u363	First of all, on the subject of constitutional review: we will, of course, continue this debate when the main letter is available. It also depends on the choices you make in it. When it comes to constitutional monarchy, it does not affect the democratic rule of law; it does not bite each other in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u364	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u365	And whether the King still has a big or a small role, we can have a nice debate on that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u366	But not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u367	No, not today, Mr. Chairman. I won't be tempted to do that. Mr. Chairman. I have asked the people who are going to be involved in the setting up of the electoral college whether it will not be possible to do so later, for example 1 October, and whether there must be clarity in the middle of September. It is very clearly stated that it is necessary to clarify in mid-September whether or not the underlying legislation for the electoral college has been adopted. They really need that time. I do not want to say in this Chamber that I am in favour of 1 October, because if I have specifically asked for it a few times and have been told by the public that it is really necessary for the feasibility of this time, then I think I should say the same to this Chamber. We have seen before in other areas that we should not underestimate the feasibility. Know that the willingness to take this quickly, alertly and swiftly is very much present, but that people are also simply realistic. And the date is from March, so that's true. Mr. Chairman. Let me look at the questions about 'We the People', historical-cultural and popular sovereignty. In the end, it was Mr Koopmans who chose this wording, precisely on the basis of Mr Engels' motion, who had put the democratic rule of law very strongly in that motion. It was also an explicit point for him to bring the amendment to the first reading in the House of Representatives. He is ultimately the author of this amendment. Mr. Chairman. I therefore consider the reply to be complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u368	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-9.u369	I come to the conclusion of the six proposals for amendment of the Constitution at second reading: 35784, Amendment of the Constitution to include a provision on the right to a fair trial, and 35785, Change in the Constitution to include a provision on a electoral college elected by non-residents for the election of the First Chamber of the States General, and 35786, Change in the Constitution to include a general provision, and 35787, Change in the Constitution to repeal additional articles that have been elaborated, and 35789, Change in the Constitution to the provision on changes in the Constitution (Review Constitutional Reform Procedure), and 35790, Change in the Constitution to the provision on the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. In the light of Article 137 of the Constitution, a two-thirds majority is required for the adoption of these six proposals for constitutional amendment at second reading. I propose that we vote next week on the six legislative proposals. Earlier this evening, all Members received a message from the President about a hammer piece that was added to today's agenda at the request of the Finance Committee in connection with its intended entry into force on 1 July. It concerns the amendment of some tax laws (Law on additional fiscal purchasing power measures 2022). Is there still a need for a short suspension before we can remove the hammer piece? That is not the case.
