ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the citizens' initiative Time for Transparency (35862, No. 1). This is the fourth citizens' initiative that the Chamber is considering in plenary during this term of office and the nineteenth plenary debate since the introduction of this instrument. A citizens' initiative remains special. The present citizens' initiative calls for action to address the unclear costs of capital insurance. I would like to welcome Mrs Sandra Molenaar, Director-General of the Consumers' Union, and Mr Stef Smit, Director of the Consumer Complaint Foundation, to the President's Lodge. Together with the Association Woekerpolis.nl and the Foundation Woekerpoli process, they have put this citizens' initiative on the agenda of the Chambers. We just had a little chat. That's always very handsome, because sometimes you have to take quite a long breath and put a lot of effort into it. We express our gratitude for your presence here today. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance, the Members of Parliament, the journalists in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. Mrs Molenaar will present the citizens' initiative from the outset. I'm going to ask the guardian of the Chamber to escort her there. As usual, there are no interruptions possible. Mrs Molenaar has five minutes to give an explanation. I call Mrs Molenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u2	Chairman, members of the House of Representatives and Minister. I welcome today's debate on the Citizens' Initiative Time for Transparency. I am doing this on behalf of the three other initiators of the Woekerpolis.nl and the Woekerpoli process, and on behalf of the signatories of the citizens' initiative. My name is Sandra Molenaar and I'm CEO of the Consumers' Association. In the Netherlands, many millions of capital insurances have been taken out, of which the 7 million faulty usury policies are the best known. Millions of Dutch people wanted to put their money aside because later they needed it badly for the repayment of their mortgage, as a supplement to their pension or for other large expenses, such as the study of their children. But there are many who are deceived. Today I'm standing here on their behalf. For decades, capital insurance has been subject to high additional costs that are hidden from consumers. This was for a long time a golden business for insurance intermediaries, who were credited the closing commissions to their bank account. Don't ask how, but take advantage; that was the credo. How'd that go? You come to the customer's house on an appointment, you drink a cup of coffee, you have a chat and after an hour you leave with a signature under a policy and you are €2,000 to €3,000 richer. In the heydays, a mediator quickly closed four or five policies a day. You understand how hard that adds up. What about the client? He'll pay the bill, of course. But there's more going wrong. Capital insurance assets shall be built up from the proceeds of investments. The insurer often advises to invest in a so-called safe mix fund, where the deposit is spread over several investment funds. What is not told is that the insured person has to pay separate fund management costs for all underlying funds. In total, this can be between 1.5% and 2% of the accumulated capital. Those are annual costs. These may seem to be low percentages, but most of these usury policies have long-term maturitys, sometimes up to 30 years or more. Thus, 40% or 50% of the value can be extracted over the entire duration. This concerns many thousands or even tens of thousands of euros. I'll give you an example of a gentleman. Let's call him "Mr. Van den Heuvel." Mr. Van den Heuvel needs €200,000 to repay his mortgage. He pays €250 per month for 30 years, but after 20 years there is only €45,000 in his policy. It is expected that his final return will be around €80,000. That's a lot too little. In those 20 years, thousands of euros have been deducted from investment management costs, about which he has not been informed. Thus, his actual investment was always less than €250 per month. All euros that are not deposited cannot, of course, render. That is why the difference between the intended and the actual yield can be so great. Mr. Chairman. None of this can be explained, and that's why insurers don't. These costs are the major absentee in the annual capital insurance statements. Hundreds of thousands of insured people don't know to this day that they have a toxic usury policy. Together with the other initiators, the Consumers' Association has been suing for years to ensure that damaged consumers recover their overpaid costs. That is why we have started this citizens' initiative. In a very short time we had 52,000 signatures for that. Fortunately, it is quite possible to do something about this. Under the current legislation, insurers are already obliged to send their policy holders an annual so-called De Ruiter overview. Although this summary contains what has been deducted in the previous insurance year, this overview is not complete. Insurance companies are still not obliged to fully inform their customers. Careful provision of services to insured persons which is part of the Decision Behavioural Supervision Financial Companies Wft.... is therefore not always done in practice as we think should be. We suspect that it has been the intention of the decision, but we see that the decision offers too much room for intransparency. Does it provide you with an annual overview of all the insurance costs of the previous year, as well as the costs over the entire duration? If the policy holders have been shocked, after finding out what has actually been deducted from their policy, they can at least consider whether they want to modify or terminate a policy. In this way, they can prevent excessive costs being withheld for years to come, and have the choice of making their savings grow in a different way. With our initiative, we also ask that insurers be required to provide cost statements with retroactive effect upon request, even in the case of policies that have already been terminated. In practice, we know that insurers can do that. Look at the compensation schemes that have been implemented before. This part of our request is very important, because it will finally give policy holders an insight into the extent of the damage they have suffered. They have a right to that. As soon as costs become transparent, we will have market forces. This market operation will ensure that products with too high costs will disappear by themselves. You will understand that extra supervision and control by the AFM is essential in all of this. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mrs Molenaar. You'll be escorted out again. We'll start with the part of the room now. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the initiators. It is very special that we are dealing with such an initiative. It is also very important that, from this point of view, we should be presented with subjects from society that we can go on with in the Chamber. I'm here today as a financial spokesman, but I'm not at all. That's Henk Nijboer, but he's in a debate about living, so I'm replacing him. I'm gonna do it as best I can. In preparation I have seen some videos of Radar about people who have put money away. It can be large amounts, but it is often also about €1,000 or €2,000 for which they have worked hard and which they thought: if I put that away for twenty years, then I can spend some of it together with my family on my old age. If you are presented with an 8% return in 2000, you expect it to be. Of course, it can always be a bit disappointing. You know it may never be 8%, but if it turns out after 20 years that you've achieved about 4.4% return, that's disappointing, but it's even more disappointing if the return you actually receive is 1.75%. This means that a large part of the real yield, which is 4.4%, goes to the insurer, according to management costs. We have done a lot in recent years when it comes to combating usury policies. It was, of course, the Wild West in the insurance business, where the intermediaries in particular made a lot of money. A lot has been done. The models of the De Ruiter Committee that have been applied since 2008 have already been mentioned, but the initiators rightly ask for maximum transparency. This concerns in particular the management costs that insurers charge, and which are deducted from the returns that people have worked so hard for and which they thought they would need for their old age, or later for their children. I think it would be a good idea if we, together with the initiators, asked the Minister to take a good look at this. What is the regulatory framework to do to achieve this maximum transparency, particularly in terms of the management costs that are expected and which are therefore invisible to the consumer? How can the actual management costs to which the insurer is accountable to the consumer in advance, during and afterwards? So I ask the Minister what is the position with regard to that. Is there more to be done in terms of regulation? It is also important to see how the current policies are going. Of course, a lot of policies have already been closed. People are still waiting for a lot of hidden disappointment. Can the Minister also see what we can do with retroactive effect for those people who may have made far too high a return cost and who did not know that at all when they took out the insurance? And let us avoid that for the future in particular. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Maatoug van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the initiators, and also congratulations. I just heard the number. It seems very honorable to be standing here. It helps us in the democratic debate. I would also like to encourage people: do this above all. Because in this way we are forced to relate to things that we have long been doing our best for, but which we can do better in practice. I actually like the fact that we are sitting here in the Chamber talking about Time for Transparency, in a debate that everyone can just follow. The nice thing about that is: when you see what happens, you can relate to it, you can find some of it and then you know exactly what's going on. We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have looked very carefully at the initiative. We have also looked closely at the underlying regulations. We see a lot of good intentions, but we are shocked when we see statistics, for example, that two thirds of consumers who have taken out their non-life insurance through an intermediary do not know whether they pay the commission through the insurance premium and how much that is. So all the things we want about transparency are not going well. Then the call "let's be more transparent" is a very good one. One of the things we see a lot in the Finance Committee is that the information is often there: you can find it there on that website, it's there in that one log file, or the information can be found elsewhere. But when you see it in your own overview and there is, for example, a euro amount, it raises questions, and those questions ultimately lead to better services. That is what we see in the lessons of pensions, for example. It forces the insurer to do that, and it forces the customer to think: hey, what's going on here, and do I get it? GroenLinks is all in favour of that. I think there is room for greater transparency. It's a good thing we're gonna be tough on that. I fully agree with Mr PvdA's speech to see if we can make legislation better. Let us be ambitious people together and not say: it is transparent enough; it is okay. We can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mrs Maatoug. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you. Let me start by saying that my contribution today is partly on behalf of the Christian Union. In the House of Representatives it can be said that there are several important debates at the same time. Then parties can often not be present at both. I have often spoken with Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union on this subject in the run-up to this debate. He is very involved in this issue, and we are also thinking the same thing here. So my input is partly on his behalf. Let me begin by thanking the initiators for this citizens' initiative. It is a fine instrument, which can force society to deal with a subject, to debate it and to take a stand on it. It is inspiring to see that you have taken that trouble and that you have succeeded in putting it on the agenda. If you're reading the Time for Transparency initiative, you're actually thinking: why hasn't there been a position on this yet? After all, transparency is a prerequisite for a functioning economy. This was already referred to by the initiators. How else can you value a product well? In the past we have seen how things can go incredibly wrong. Whole normal people saw hard-earned money go up partly or sometimes completely in smoke, not so much because of disappointing returns, but because of absurdly high costs that were charged and actually came as a surprise. If those people had known that before, they would of course never have taken out that insurance. It was often an unfair struggle to get compensation for this. 'Cause you're gonna sit at the kitchen table, look at an empty housekeeping book and have to box up against those big insurance companies with expensive lawyers. How lonely do you feel? Then it is very nice that there are parties, such as the Consumers' Association, Consumers' Claim, the Association Woekerpolis.nl and the Foundation Woekerpolitisch process, who stand up for you. But in all honesty, Mr President, it must never come to that, of course. It is therefore a good thing that the initiators now also call for attention to all capital insurance. They note, as I read in the initiative, that there may be hidden costs in the case of several financial products, and that this is harmful. They point out that the annual statements are incomplete and not all costs, such as fund management costs, are not sufficiently transparent as to what the total costs of the products are and that consumers often do not know what the closing costs are. Let me be clear: this is information that consumers need in terms of the VVD in order to be able to make informed choices. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add that amounts should not only be reported in percentages. Percentages often seem smaller than if you see it in bold euros. In fact, that should also be included in those standards. I will therefore table a motion in the second term, also on behalf of the Christian Union, the CDA and D66, in which we call on the government to come forward with concrete proposals and to strengthen the decision on the supervision of financial undertakings. I can just imagine that our motion is similar. We should see which one we put to the vote after submission. In the end, it is important that the customer is better served in the future. Mr President, concluding. It is good to see that the financial sector has also learned lessons from the past; let us be honest about that. They also emphasise the importance of transparency and understanding. We also see beautiful slogans coming along, such as "More insight into money matters" and "Glass-clear assurance." I therefore see this citizens' initiative as a concrete hand-off from the initiators to the insurers to add more action to the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP. And I'd say if two motions look alike, it saves another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr President. We can also ask questions to the cabinet today, I suppose. Right? I have not heard any questions from the previous speakers to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u11	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u12	I started to doubt myself a little bit. I do have questions for the cabinet, but I will come to that later. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking ConsumersClaim, the Consumers' Association, the Association of Woekerpolis.nl and the Foundation for the Woekerpoli process for this citizens' initiative, which aims to improve people's position vis-à-vis misleading financial institutions. That is, of course, an objective that the SP can wholeheartedly support. In fact, it is a goal that I am trying to achieve myself and that I am pursuing various initiatives. 52,000 signatures have been collected, and that is an important and not to be ignored signal for all of us, but especially for the government and the new Minister of Finance. In our country, a lot of capital insurance is taken out every year, for example to buy a house, for old age or for children. And then it's important that that happens in a good way. That the costs that insurers charge are not always clear, did not surprise me, I must admit, but it is not good that this is still going on. Too often we see large financial institutions playing nicely and tricking people and thus duping them. This can be done in many different ways, and one way is of course a bit more serious and a bit worse than the other, but it actually comes down to the same thing: taking people's hard-earned money to make as much profit as possible. Today we are talking about a specific form of this, namely the phenomenon that the hidden costs charged are not always clear to unsuspecting customers. My question to the Minister is whether she acknowledges that information asymmetry, as it is called with an expensive word, is still too common in the financial sector and that we are talking about just one example of it today. Does she share the view that this is undesirable? And what is it going to do to combat this in the financial sector? The initiators indicate that the Financial Supervision Act is currently inadequate, and that insurers therefore get away with incomplete information and thus dup innocent people, their customers. They therefore want the law to be amended in such a way that companies are obliged to inform customers clearly about all the costs that are charged, throughout the life of the insurance. It seems to the SP to be an extremely reasonable and, in fact, modest demand, and so tens of thousands of people have signed up for it. It is actually a shortcoming that this has not yet been settled. Does the Minister agree and when can we expect a legislative change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am the new spokesman in the field of financial markets and financial legislation. When I read this citizens' initiative, I actually thought: hadn't we solved this to a large extent after all the usury affairs? The great thing about this initiative is that we now see that things can still be better or better. Because after the usury policy affairs, of course, we have seen how people with sometimes very modest savings, assuming they did something sensible for later, just went on board the boat. My colleagues have already spoken about this. They didn't just go into the boat, because it may be difficult to invest on the financial markets, but because all of them came from hidden costs. That's not over either. Mr Gijs van Dijk spoke just now about the hidden disappointments that are still in policies. I liked that. Agreed. The fact that we are discussing this here today deserves a great compliment. As a democrat, that makes me proud of the fact that we have instruments like this in the Netherlands, namely that we in Parliament are being forced to talk about this in the Chamber on an initiative that supports 52.000 people and that has been done by the Consumers' Union, Consumers' Claim, the Association Woekerpolis.nl and the Foundation Woekerpoli process. That is, of course, the best form of coercion, because that is something that lives, something that we have to do about. It cheers me up as a Democrat. Mr. Chairman. After all the weirdo affairs, the world hasn't stopped. Mrs Molenaar said that herself. For example, there is the De Ruiter overview. Article 73 of the law contains many improvements. Big steps have been taken. I am also thinking of the commission ban on capital insurance as at 2013. I ask the Minister whether this is being properly observed and whether it is being properly enforced, so that it does not arise again somewhere. Mr. Chairman. If you look at where it can be done even better, it is indeed about clarity and certainly also about fund management costs. I would like to ask the Minister how we can give that cost, one of the missing links, even more a place. In the second term, I have a motion for a resolution on this. That has to happen in a way that you can see what it says. 'Cause if you read a little bit of zero point zero anywhere, you're like, "Well, whatever. But if that is a bit of an amount and it runs for 30 years, then it is very close to euros. You might not know that when you buy a product like this. Of course, it's a big problem if you do that with products where you don't know in advance what the final amount is. In your head you have a certain picture of the return, but then it is so incredibly disappointing. Transparency helps. As transparency helps democracy, it also helps the functioning of the market, as has just been said, because then you as a consumer have real freedom of choice. I have a very specific question for the Minister. I wonder if we have any idea how other countries have organised this. Are there things, for example when it comes to transparency, that we can learn from in the Netherlands? Because looking across borders and listening to citizens' initiatives has never made a politician worse. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would first of all like to thank the initiators for their explanations and for all the time and work they have put into the citizens' initiative. Because collecting 52,000 signatures, 12,000 on top of the required number, is really worth a big compliment. This shows that it is important for a lot of people that they are given all the relevant information in complex capital insurance in order to be able to make good trade-offs. The fact that, according to all the signatories, this is not yet enough is a signal that we must take seriously. Of course, the attention given to this is not incomprehensible either. I am referring to what has gone wrong in the past with the so-called usury policies. According to the AFM, in 2018 there were about 2 million running usury policies. Capital insurance is still in place. Especially in the case of insurance where the final return is not established in advance, it is important that there is an understanding of the level of annual costs, so that people are not surprised when the final return is suddenly much lower than previously anticipated. Fortunately, many good steps have been taken towards greater transparency since the usury policy affair. Insurers have been required to send their customers the "model 3 De Ruiter" statement each year since 2008, which includes the value development of the accumulated capital, premiums paid, discounted costs and the current accumulated capital and yield. But apparently there is still a piece of crucial information about other costs missing from the overview. There are two considerations for us in dealing with the issue in which we want to find a balance. We strongly support transparency for consumers about their complex financial products. They need to know what happens to their deposited money every year. We are also in favour of implementing proposals. We believe it is important that additional rules really lead to more and meaningful consumer understanding and that these rules are also reasonably enforceable. Otherwise, we will say yes to something for the stage and no consumer will benefit. In order to gain more insight into how best to meet this demand for greater transparency for consumers, we would like to see proposals from the cabinet. A number of references have already been made to a motion that will come later. GroenLinks used similar words: big steps have been taken, but it can still be done better. Let's take that step now. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u17	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you, Mr President. The third Van Dijk or Van Dijck within this series. First of all, I warmly congratulate the initiators on 52,000 signatures. That does say something, namely that it still plays very badly. I got a bit of a déjà vu. I've been a Member of Parliament since 2006 and I've been doing this file since then. I thought we left behind the usury policy affair, which was about to be found in 2006. But apparently this is still alive. That should concern the Minister. Since 2006, when the usury policy came to light, we have been dealing with compensation schemes, with mass claims and with lawsuits. Apparently, this is still running. Of the 7 million usury policies, Mrs Van Dijk said, I believe that 2 million are still active. Consumers thought they would build up assets, but this was largely related to costs and premiums. Everyone said this was a disgrace at the time. The consumers were deceived and cheated. Mr. Chairman. That this affair has still not been resolved, we also saw at Radar last Monday. It was poignant to see Dexia put the pressure on the victims to buy them off with a tip. And so there are more. I also got an email about Aegon, about the product Sprintplan. People get caught twice. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. How is it that the usury policy affair in 2022 has still not been dealt with? Is it true that 2 million policies are still active? How many victims are still waiting for their compensation? How is the Minister going to ensure that this affair is dealt with as quickly as possible and as properly as possible? 'Cause it's about time. You would also think that after the De Ruiter reviews transparency would have returned, but nothing seems less true. Costs such as closing commission and fund management costs seem to remain hidden. Apparently, therefore, nothing has been learned from the usury policy affair. It is therefore right that the initiators should denounce this and call for optimum transparency. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question about feasibility, because I also read that insurers indicate that they no longer have the costs available in their administration. Is that right? Can the Minister find out if this is a cheap excuse, or if it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u20	Yes, I have a question for colleague Van Dijck about his question about Sprintplan. He was completely justified. I wanted to do it in another place, but maybe this is the right time. He asked for a response. I would also like a more detailed reaction from the cabinet, perhaps in writing, on this product. I heard about investing with borrowed money. What's up? How does the Cabinet feel about this? What's it gonna do about it? So I would actually like to put an exclamation mark behind Mr Van Dijck's question, because I would like to know more about this. I'm just gonna use it to see if we can ask the Cabinet together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u21	Yes, of course. Last Monday we saw in the Radar programme that a case of Dexia came to light, trying to ship someone with €500, while they were entitled to a fee of €30,000. If the minister didn't see that, maybe it's okay if she takes a look back. The fact that this is still happening after so much misery in that usury policy affair means that apparently there is still a tail of that usury policy affair, which we should be aware of and where action by the cabinet is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u22	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. The Minister has indicated that she needs about seven minutes to prepare herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u23	The next item is the debate on the citizens' initiative Time for Transparency. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance to answer a number of questions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u24	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, I would like to mention a few important points and then, in fact, I would like to get straight to the questions. In the first instance, of course, congratulations but also thanks to the initiators and all 52.000 citizens of the Netherlands who have signed this. I think that the initiators have given a tremendously important impetus to the follow-up of those who offer the policies, but also, of course, the responsibility we have in our cabinet. The consumer is entitled at all times to the maximum understanding of his own situation and the consequences of entering into a policy in this case, and, of course, is entitled to meet expectations. Of course, it cannot be the intention to make it clear that what is written is different from what you would expect if you sign in and buy a product. As this Chamber has also appointed, a number of important steps have been taken in the past, such as the generic cost compensation, the 2013 commission ban and the 2014 duty of care. But it has become clear from the initiative that it is not enough. So there are two things we're going to do anyway. I would also like to look at, on the basis of the discussions and follow-up talks with the initiators, which elements of Article 73 of the Decision Behavioural Supervision Financial Companies need to be adapted to fully comply with the obligation of transparency towards consumers. This transparency naturally concerns direct and indirect costs. At the same time, I will also have a follow-up discussion with the providers of all these products to see how they can take on this responsibility as soon as possible. I actually want to look for the quickest way to make this possible, but experience has shown that legislation can be very helpful as a constructive stick behind the door, I would say. It is about speed and appropriate adjustment to address the concerns that have been expressed and to help those who are often very dependent on these policies. There are two possible profit warnings I have to give in terms of expectations. If we take into account the principle of legal certainty, especially when it comes to getting information from a long time ago, that is nothing new to the initiators, I can also see from the faces.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is not a question of malice, but that information is simply no longer available or can no longer be traced. Moreover, as far as the principle of legal certainty is concerned, we cannot rely on new rules with retroactive effect. The Council of State will also be able to give negative advice on this, because it is obviously about the awareness of the measure at the time of its introduction. However, I think the first problem is of a different order, namely whether the information is still available and can be traced. In that context, I would like to see a demonstrable attempt by those who have offered a policy. There may also be more flexible moments, where you can, for example, get information from five years ago. What we're talking about 30 years ago may not work anymore. There may also be an information system that may no longer be traceable. In the meantime, maybe people stopped the policy or they died. I don't want to speculate about any of that, but I'd like to see what's possible. In addition, I will see how Article 73 can be adapted to meet legitimate questions. A number of specific questions have been asked. I should like to begin with Mr Alkaya's question on information asymmetry. It lives, I think, in many societies anyway, but also here. This is about financial literacy and understanding rather difficult documents. I would also like to discuss this again with those who offer such policies. As in the case of election programmes, it must be understandable to everyone, especially in the case of such products. If you don't have the information or knowledge to understand your own policy, you may be drawing something that wasn't meant to be. Mr Alkaya's second question is a very broad one. I would actually ask him to give me a little time to explain with the officials where the vulnerabilities can lie, so that I do not make a promise or a statement in advance which I either have to swallow or cannot deliver. But the principle of equivalence and making information accessible to bridge that asymmetry as much as possible, I share. Much has already happened, of course, although Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg each appreciate this differently for their muffled reasons. There are many European rules on information provision, but the Netherlands often takes a step further. So there is a basis at European level when it comes to framing how financial products work, but we often do more. We are also asking for it at European level; we would like to see more action in it. Mr Van Dijk asked about the state of play in dealing with usury policies. Many steps have already been taken and the statutory activation by insurers has resulted in 91% of customers being confirmed, including by the AFM, in 2019. The other 9% could not be traced or never reached, or there may have been death. My predecessor explained all this. Of course, there remains the undertaking of insurers to deliver continuous aftercare and continuous commitment and coulance towards the customers. In addition, there are several legal procedures. In addition, complaints have been lodged concerning individual and collective actions at the Kifid, including in relation to alternative dispute resolution. That does not alter the fact that this is still a matter of concern. I believe that I have also answered Mr Van Dijck's question from the PVV. I admit that in my discussions with the insurers to see what they can do on a voluntary basis, I will also raise this point. In a follow-up, I hope to be able to report on an even higher percentage. In addition to the way to court, dispute resolution or complaint handling at the Kifid is a separate process. Then there was a question: is there more to be done in the regulation of fund management costs? As you know, fund management costs are not mentioned in the annual statements but reference is made to the disclosure of the fund manager. From the insurer it is said: we do so because it gives the customer the most up-to-date information. But I do think it should be better and customer-oriented. We talk about customization all over the place these days. Here, too, must be a method by which each individual policy holder can understand how that goes back to his or her policy. I do not yet have the solution, but this is a major point of attention that needs to be improved. A question from Mr Van Dijk of the PvdA: am I prepared to change the rules on cost transparency for current insurance? As I said, the principle of legal certainty is a fundamental principle, but I want to see what is possible. I also hope for the goodwill of some of the parties here. It is also in the interests of the reputation of the providers themselves, I could imagine. Then there is a question from Mr Heinen: what is the government's position on the initiative? Very important, too bad it had to take so long, I should say. So we still have work to do. My commitment will be to do on the part of the Cabinet or with you as co-legislator what is possible to achieve that. A question from Mr Van Weyenberg: how can we give the invisible costs a better place? Can we learn anything from active commission transparency in non-life insurance? I was just saying that transparency requires a lot more customization. I think that is what we should expect, including from the providers, both in the case of capital insurance and in the case of active commission transparency. So I guess the assignment is also to those who offer to see what's possible. We take this into account in all our discussions and, where necessary, in the adaptation of Article 73. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked whether Article 73 of the BGfo was being properly respected. As you know, the AFM is the authority that supervises compliance as an independent conduct supervisor in financial markets. I just don't know what I actually want to know for myself whether the AFM also has the possibility to impose a fine in case of lack of compliance, systematically ignore, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. I don't know, I hope most insurers really want to solve this and get professional with it, but I would like to be briefed on the scope of the AFM in cases of consistent non-compliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr President, I am doing it now, which also saves me a second term. There is, of course, going to be a motion which also asks the cabinet to do a number of things. I think we're very much on the same page. In fact, I would like to ask that two points be taken back to the Chamber in the report on this matter. The first is to explicitly address compliance and monitoring. Because I think we have learned with each other that only laws on paper have not always resulted in compliance in practice. The second was my question about other countries, because it is very good that there is a lot of European. It is also good that the Netherlands sometimes tries to do even better. But I remain curious whether, for example, Scandinavian countries or a country like Austria may have invented smart things that we do not have. That doesn't have to be a huge exercise. Fortunately, we also have embassies in those countries. So I would be curious if there is any inspiration to be found there to do some extra extra in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u26	Always. I think we can always learn from others, including how not to, and sometimes how to do better. I think the official team heard about this. These are very specific questions. We will see in which forum we will ask these questions to those who can also provide the answer that is needed. Then we have Mr Van Dijck's question from the PVV: is it true that there are 2 million outstanding policies? We actually only have the recent statistics, apparently from 2018. At that time, there were 1.8 million. I can't explain why there aren't any more recent numbers available. I'll have that checked out. How is it that the information from that time is no longer available? I just named that. Indeed, about Radar's broadcast, I told Mr Van Dijck without a microphone that unfortunately I am not watching enough television, so I did not see the broadcast. I'll look him back. As far as we can see, it's not an investment policy but an equity lease insurance. It is, of course, terrible for the victims, because they are still waiting for compensation. I cannot interfere in the content of individual civil cases, but I will take the signals with me. I think the AFM and De Nederlandsche Bank have also taken note of this important broadcast. Mr Nijboer's set of parliamentary questions will be answered within the current time limit, but I hope that we will have a positive cooperation between the Chamber and the Cabinet for all those who are entitled to it, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u27	I thank the Minister for her reply. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. Mr. Gijs van Dijk? Mrs Maatoug? Mr. Heinen? Yeah, bite! With a motion. I call Mr Heinen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mr President. There is much consensus in this Chamber, on the part of the Cabinet and on the part of the Chamber. Mr Van Dijk also announced a motion, but our motions were similar. In terms of efficiency, as Mr Van Dijk also said, we have put it together. I appreciate that very much. It also gives more impact to the motion. I also know how the PvdA fights for this, with Mr Nijboer as financial spokesman. So let me acknowledge him in that. I like that we have the consensus to table a motion. This is an important citizens' initiative and I therefore think it is important for the Chamber to give its opinion on it as a whole. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas transparency of financial products is of great importance in order to avoid unexpected costs for consumers;]] [[noting that the current standards charge different charges for e.g. fund management and closing costs and this is not sufficiently transparent for consumers;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the regulator, to make proposals to improve the transparency of financial products, including investment insurance, in the future so that they lead to better consumer understanding and in a way that is also feasible for the sector;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account at least the following aspects: the standardisation of fund management costs and closing costs on the annual statement, the standard inclusion of costs in both percentages and amounts and the inclusion of cumulative costs over the duration of the annual statement, and to consider whether the Decision on financial undertaking conduct supervision could be strengthened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Heinen, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Grinwis, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Maatoug and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35862-2]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u29	You will not be surprised that I am happy to give this motion a Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate and the debate on this citizens' initiative. I would once again like to thank the authors for all the work and for putting this on the agenda of the Chamber. I would like to thank the Minister and Members of Parliament for their presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-8.u31	We'll be voting on the motion next Tuesday. I will also let you know the outcome of the vote on this motion. I thank the people who have looked at this debate, as well as the few people sitting in the public gallery and the journalists. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.30 p.m. That's half an hour ahead of schedule. We will then proceed with the proposal of the law of Members Paternotte, Kuik, Ellemeet and Tellegen to amend the law on termination of pregnancy in connection with the abolition of the mandatory minimum period of reflection for the termination of pregnancy.
