ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the amendment of the Education and Vocational Training Act (BES) in connection with the extension of the possibility of offering the education and examinations of MBO courses at Bonaire in Papiaments. Welcome to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u2	There are four Members from Parliament who wish to speak in the first term. First, Mr El Yassini will speak on behalf of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When dealing with this proposal, we are actually talking about equal opportunities. If you and the Chamber at least recognize something in me, then it is my fight for equality of opportunity and the opportunity to pursue your own happiness. My passion for MBO stems in particular from the power that education has to make people rise above themselves, reach great heights and be successful in life, in whatever form. Therefore, the issue of equality of opportunity is the foundation of the treatment of this legislative amendment. The proposal before us extends the possibility of offering vocational education on Bonaire and the related examinations in Papiaments. The proposal stems from the problem that the Dutch language is too big a stumbling block for a group of students, which prevents them from obtaining a degree in self-employed cook at MBO level 3. This is true of the local labour market, where there is a great need for self-employed cooks. The Council on Education Labour Market Caribbean Netherlands reports that employers have difficulty filling the vacancies for self-employed cooks on Bonaire. According to the Cabinet, this amendment to the bill should be the solution. As far as we are concerned, Caribbean Netherlands can always count on the VVD if people want to develop. We want everyone to be the director of their own lives. We believe in the power of people. We work hard for equal opportunities and work for development and education. We understand the challenges in the BES islands: there are both workers and students who want to grow and there is a labour market that is urgently shy about workers. However, we have very, very serious doubts about this bill and its solution to the language problems of workers and students in Bonaire. Instead of dealing with the problem of language delays in the Dutch language, it is decided to avoid the problem completely. This creates new problems. On the basis of the triple qualification requirement of the MBO, I will indicate where the problems arise and where the proposal even affects the value of the MBO diploma. The MBO has a triple qualification requirement. The first is: training for the labour market and a profession. The second is: training for further training. The third is: training for good citizenship. They're crucial. We all have the responsibility of protecting and monitoring this qualification requirement, not only for the Chamber but also for the Cabinet. I want to walk them one at a time. Firstly, training for the labour market and a profession. The case in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal refers to chefs training, levels 3 and 4. Level 3 is an independent chef. What are you supposed to do for that? In addition to cooking, you need to organize, plan, manage staff, have contact with different vendors even outside the island to apply and sometimes even implement hygiene rules. Level 4, specialized chef, knows all these points. On top of that, as a cook you go to a higher level, work in a multi-star restaurant and even as a cook you can start your own business. In addition, you not only have contacts with suppliers but also with the government and the Tax Administration, which communicates in Dutch on Bonaire. So we actually see that those people with levels 3 and 4 are professional at a high level, with some of them being asked for. The Dutch language is crucial. Then there is the second part of the first point. I read in the explanatory statement that it is said that we only want to offer it in sectors where the Dutch language is not required. We are already talking about construction. The case is about chefs training, but we are already talking about construction, care and installation technology. I cannot imagine that the Dutch language is not required in these sectors when it comes to safety aspects, hygiene, care and inspections. The implementation services pay attention to the quality of these different sectors. So that's where the same problems arise. With the entry into force of this law, a cohort of students can, if it is right, start from 1 August 2022. I think that has been postponed because the bill has been delayed for a while, but at least they could start. The cook's programme talks about 38 students who could pass into level 3 in the bbl. In consultation with industry representatives on Bonaire, it will also be considered for which other training courses a Papiamentian bbl variant can be developed in the long term. So I'm worried about this, too. My question to the Minister is: what brake do we still have that not all bol- and all bbl-trainings will be offered at Bonaire in Papiaments? I don't think that can be the effect of the problem we're trying to solve for that group that's now falling apart for a while. The explanatory memorandum again states: in sectors where the Dutch language is not required. However, I am simply missing a review framework that allows us to determine when Dutch in a sector is not required. And that is simply unknown to us as a Lower House. So I can't make a decision either. Like I said, when you get back to work, you're gonna have to deal with the IRS, too. You are dealing with inspections, you are dealing with the care, hygiene and all other matters that you will have to communicate in Dutch. Then we see that professionals are also simply closed down from knowledge, innovation and development from the Netherlands and Flanders. Let's get back to the case of chefs training from the explanatory statement. Especially when it comes to lifelong development and learning, we want the moment when someone reaches their MBO degree to be not the final stadium, but the beginning of a very beautiful and wonderful career. This includes developing and learning for a lifetime. When you offer the programme and the exams only in the Papiaments, this means that you actually cut people off from knowledge innovation and developments that take place not only in the Netherlands but also in Flanders. If you go into more detail in the catering sector, especially in the field of chefs, you will see that when it comes to development and new things, there is a lot of knowledge and there are many possibilities that we do have in the Netherlands, but that Bonaire lacks. Does the Minister therefore understand that at the moment it is offered in the Papiaments, you de facto exclude students from that knowledge and innovation that we have from the Netherlands and Flanders, so that they could grow and reach great heights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u4	I am listening to the speech of the VVD and I can broadly agree with that. I just can't agree with the conclusions. Because at the moment only 10 to 15% of the mbo-scholiers go to the Netherlands and Flanders. We're talking 10%. On the contrary, this bill removes the language barrier, thus training local people for local demand. That is incredibly macro-effective, and that is precisely what Mr El Yassini is so in favour of. Can the VVD reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yes. I believe that Mrs Hagen does not distinguish between macro-targeting and training for the labour market perspective. This macro-efficiency is in fact a triple qualification requirement. I'm only at point one now. I have point two, and I will come to point three later. They have to be in balance. That means you're not doing well the moment you're just training for good citizenship. You just train yourself for the job market, you don't do it right. You just train yourself to be able to move on to higher education, then you're not doing it right. That is why we have a triple qualification requirement, and that is that macro-efficiency. I am indeed a fan of that, but that must also be kept in balance. This bill is completely out of balance when it comes to the triple qualification requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u6	I wonder if Mr El Yassini is familiar with the administrative agreement, just between the Netherlands and Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u7	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u8	I'd like to clarify. Sorry, Mr President, it is not the intention to question it, although of course it fits in with an education debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yeah, I kind of feel like I'm in class right now. Perhaps Mrs Hagen just wants to ask her question so I can answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u10	It was agreed that Papiaments should be included in the European Charter, precisely because Papiaments is the language used on Bonaire. I think it is the government's right that we should like to be in line with Bonaire's wishes. I don't understand why the VVD would like to deviate from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u11	I think I'm explaining that right now. I am only at point one of my three points, indicating that it is a very bad idea. In addition, of course, we have level two. That's already being given in Papiaments. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. But I will continue with my speech on point two, because we are far from there. Yes, I'm very critical of this bill. I'm just being honest and hard at that, too. We talked about the cases as a professional. Just so we're clear, nurse is MBO level four, so that's not nothing. Those are professional, with appreciation for the MBO. Then we have point two of the qualification requirement, namely training for further training. Here too, the legislative proposal runs counter to one of those three qualifications requirements. It closes down to higher education in the European Netherlands. That's basically what it's all about. If someone does level 4 on Bonaire in Papiaments, they have a MBO degree level 4, but they can't go to the Higher Hotel School. I'll come up with an example later. These courses then do not provide for admission to higher education in the European Netherlands. De facto, an MBO degree obtained on Bonaire is worth less than a MBO diploma obtained in the Netherlands. Actually. As a chamber, we have the task and responsibility to monitor the value of the MBO diploma. An MBO diploma must be worth as much in North Holland as it is in Bonaire. It must be worth as much in Limburg as in Friesland. That is not the time when a student in Amsterdam, who has obtained an MBO degree in Amsterdam, is accepted at the Higher Hotel School, while the level 4 student in Bonaire receives a rejection, because his or her diploma does not entitle him or her to admission to that same Higher Hotel School. When it comes to this second point, I see a proper evaluation system, because the explanatory statement says that there will be no evaluation system because according to the Ministry the impact is very small. We are talking about 38 students for the cook's programme bbl, but I have already said: there is no brake on the cook's programmes, and at all for all courses on Bonaire. So we do not know at all what the impact is: large or small. We do not intend to vote for the law, but should the law pass, I think it would be wise for the Minister to work on the evaluation system, to ensure that, if there are major problems that we expect, we can deal with them in time. Point three is training for good citizenship. We really abandon people on the island if we don't prepare them for society. On Bonaire, the government still communicates in Dutch. If the language lag is indeed large, this also poses a problem and creates the distance between the islanders and their government. Citizenship can be uplifting here. The VVD believes that this bill does not solve the problem that is now before us. There is a language disadvantage in the Dutch language on the BES islands, especially on Bonaire. Instead of creating new problems by avoiding old problems, this cabinet will have to strengthen the pole and not lower the bar. They need to strengthen the wrist stick by focusing on strengthening Dutch on the island. The cabinet must ensure that there are courses that workers can use to add to Dutch, so that they can finally do that level 3 or level 4. They need to be able to grow from assistant cook to independent cook and specialized cook. So my question to the Minister is: if we look at what the problem is, and that is the language deficit, what is the Minister going to do to really tackle that real problem? It must never be the case that we are all working here to keep people on Bonaire, on the BES islands, in the Caribbean Netherlands. That should not happen, but you do so when you say: there is a problem that we do not want to address. We are now going to offer the programme in Papiaments, with the result that the students are cut off from higher education. They are not well prepared for the labour market, with all the points involved. They are not prepared for society and the way the government communicates in Dutch. These are all different aspects, of which I say: make sure that there is a plan on Bonaire for the language, which is so crucial. Make sure they learn the language and really make it work, because it really starts with the language. I see, moreover, that there are a number of interruptions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u12	Actually, I'm a little freaked out about this. Mr El Yassini says that we are keeping Bonaire small because of this bill, while we are giving ample employment to the local population where, mind you, Papiaments is the language of speech. You could also say... Do you agree with me, otherwise it will be a statement, President-in-Office, that having Dutch is perhaps the barrier to the island?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u13	I'd like to speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u14	Of course. At least the question comes up, Mr President. The question has been received and I will immediately bounce back the answer. We are doing the wrong thing when we make laws and regulations in such a way that we do not only have people on an island, but also figuratively on an island. People on Bonaire are part of our kingdom. They must therefore also be given the opportunity to get the best out of themselves. If we are only going to try to train for the local labour market, this means that a MBO degree obtained on Bonaire is worth less than a diploma obtained in the Netherlands. As a result, ambitious young people on Bonaire who want to go to higher hotel school cannot continue to grow. As a result, people are not prepared to communicate with their government. As a result, and I am afraid that Mrs Hagen is simply voting in favour of this proposal, rather than being critical of it and seeing how we can really let Bonaire people get the best out of themselves and grow to high altitudes. So I would like to propose: Mrs Hagen, take a good look at the legislative proposal, be critical and answer some crucial questions. This makes an MBO diploma worth less. We need to tackle language deprivation and help and elevate people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u15	I am actually in favour of not looking at the diploma. I know the VVD as a huge party for entrepreneurs. This is also about the man or woman who has worked up from dishwasher to sous chef in Papiaments, just within the local population, and now wants to take the next step. If you're gonna lie down in front of this bill, this self-made sous chef can't be a chef. You can imagine that I really... I don't really understand why the VVD could be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u16	Good, so I can put that up right away. I think that is a very good point Mrs Hagen is making here. Because then you don't have to look at the government, you have to look at the employers on Bonaire. The explanatory statement makes it very clear that employers state that at some point they cannot place someone as an independent cook because they do not have the paper. If you are trained internally, if you are using MBO certificates and if you are using Life Long Developing and Living Long Learning, who am I to stop someone's Bonairedream? But Mrs Hagen says something else and I do not think she understands the difference between education at level 2, level 3 and level 4 in that cooks training. It's not about a sous chef becoming chef. Level 2 is an assistant chef. Level 3 is an independent chef. Chef's a senior hotel school. But if you are in favour of this bill, then you are making sure that sous chef cannot become chef, because he is being cut off from the upper hotel school in the European Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mrs. Hagen, would you like to continue with this? It's possible. Otherwise it will be a new interruption and I shall first give Mrs Bouchallichh the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u18	I must confess that I am listening with increasing frustration to the speech of the VVD. It started out very optimistic and beautiful: equal opportunities and the pursuit of dreams. But then all of a sudden it's about "language retardation," while Papiaments is a recognized, official language of our Kingdom. I would also like to point out the way in which we are talking about our fellow citizens. We have to take that into account. Then I really took on the point that we shouldn't keep people small. Isn't that exactly what's going on here at the moment when the VVD is so fiercely pleading for all kinds of things that the people of Bonaire themselves aren't really waiting for? I'll just get the pleadings. The consultation states that this is "an express wish" from relevant parties on Bonaire. How does the VVD rhyme with keeping this aspect small? Because if they want to do this, we must at least respect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u19	I hear two questions. I'm gonna try to answer both of them. Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks says: Papiaments is an official language and if people do not speak Dutch, then there is no language disadvantage. May I just clarify for Mrs Bouchallichh that the Dutch language is the language in which the government communicates with its citizens on Bonaire? If you are not linguistic in that language Dutch is also an official language on Bonaire then you miss out on a lot of things. So that's not because I want to push people on Bonaire road. In fact, I want to see them grow, I want to see them achieve beautiful things, that they reach great heights, that they make some of their lives. But that starts with the language. Betuttling and low expectations are killing and I ask Mrs Bouchallichh not to do so and to stand next to me to ensure that the language level in Dutch is raised, that we get together to ensure that the people on Bonaire can communicate with their government vigorously, that they start a career in which the Dutch language is crucial and in which they can finally live up to their own dreams, because they have no obstacles to language retardation. That's point one. The second point. I need to think about what her second question was. It was mostly a lot of statements. Perhaps she could repeat that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u20	I'd be happy to ask this question again. It was about the point of keeping small. We shouldn't people...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u21	Oh, yeah, no, it was about the interest groups. That's what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr El Yassini, Mrs Bouchallichh has the floor. Mr. El Yassini, you need to hold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u23	I will repeat my question. I'll try to keep it short. I did go into the specific point that we should not keep people small. I referred to the issue of advice and consultation, which specifically states that the provision of training in the Papiaments is an express wish of relevant parties on Bonaire. How does the VVD reconcile non-respecting this specific desire from the islands themselves with the whole argument against this desire? So what's "keep small" in his perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u24	Before this there was a two-minute debate, in which Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks stood here, in the same place, to talk about participation, about giving people a voice. I hear Mrs Bouchallichh now talking about "relevant parties." That's not how I know GroenLinks. GroenLinks should also just stand up for the resident and not for organisations with common interests, let us be very honest. There are indeed interests when it comes to employment. Last year, if I am correct, 85 employment permits were offered through the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment to people who came from outside the island. Instead of these 85 employment permits, I would have preferred the competent authority in Bonaire to work together with employers and MBO schools to help the people currently on Bonaire to get to work. So there's a difference between stakeholders or crucial parties. I don't know exactly what Mrs Bouchallichh's words were anymore and the ordinary man or woman in the street on Bonaire, who actually just wants to work and who wants help from both the government and employers in order to get the best out of themselves. My answer to that is: stand next to me, let's stand up for those individual inhabitants of the island and not look at interested parties. Let's not lower the bar and say, "Oh, boy, we solved the problem." Let's make sure they get the best out of themselves, and that starts with the language.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u25	Finalizing, Mrs. Bouchallichh.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u26	I would be happy to stand next to the VVD if we look at the voice of the residents equally, but I do not hear that in your speech. So I'm afraid that won't be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u27	I think it's a shame, because then Mrs Bouchallichh didn't listen properly. My whole argument is about equality of opportunity. Because if you choose the easy way and say: we do it in the Papiaments, you shut people off from a lot of things. I think it's crucial that I stand up for the people on Bonaire by saying that I can't! If someone has the dream of becoming a chef.................................................................................................................................................................. Mrs Bouchallichh simply waltzes over that and then blames the VVD, that we would try to keep people small. Come stand next to me! Now stand up for those people by making sure that when they get their MBO degree, they can grow if they want to, so that they can make something beautiful out of their lives and get that position from chef. Hopefully at some point they'll be in a position where cooks from all over the world will come to Bonaire, because there's someone brilliant there, who they'd love to taste a dish from. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u28	There are these emotional terms like "keep small" and "respect" and all that. I would like to refer to Mr El Yassini whether he is familiar with the fact that when ideological motives introduced the Papiaments as standard language on Bonaire and the other BES islands, the only school that continued to offer Dutch, was stormed. They had waiting lists and so on, because the parents wanted their children to have Dutch at school. So I'm gonna ask Mr. El Yassini if he's aware of the fact that was happening at the time and what that tells him. For as far as I am concerned, this says that not everyone on Bonaire is charmed that it must necessarily take place in the Papiaments. Precisely the elderly, who have the greatest concern for their children and the future of their children, insisted and tried to take everything out of the closet to give them the opportunity to spread their wings in the European Netherlands. Does Mr. El Yassini agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr Bertema has, of course, been in education for 34 years and then came to the Chamber with a great deal of knowledge when it comes to education. I didn't know about it, so it's always nice to hear stories like this. To answer that, we see that in the past we had level 2 offered in Papiaments. This has happened in the past and has been settled in the past, but it has created the situation in which we are now in direct effect. Because what's happening is that a lot of those chefs we're talking about all the time now, it's also true for other courses that have done level 2 Papiaments, but when they want to flow through, they're actually running into something, and hard too. I predict that what has happened in the past with Level 2 and the Papiaments, namely that it will not be possible to move to levels 3 and 4, will also happen in higher education. I guarantee you that in ten years' time there will be a debate here in the Lower House where the cabinet will propose to offer certain higher education courses in the Netherlands in the Papiaments, because people at level 4 want to flow to the HBO and have no possibility of doing so because it is simply closed for them. I think it's actually just a slide you're gonna sit on. There's only one way, and that's down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u30	Locking up. I am glad that the VVD is trying to maintain the civil impact of these MBO diplomas in this way. I'll join you in a moment. Finally, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the fact that here too the soft bigotry of low expectations is likely to play a role when it comes to Papiaments-speaking students. We certainly shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u31	I really want to respond to that, because it also affects me as a person, that patronizing of low expectations, because I have experienced that very often in my life myself, because others thought it was better for me. That didn't make me stronger, it made me weaker. A nice example that I'm going to quote here anyway. I've doubted it, but I'm going to do it anyway. He got his nurse's degree in Morocco. It was a man who had so much passion for care. His sense was that he helped people who were sick, who needed care. He came to Holland. He didn't come as a guest worker to work in a factory. Because he really wanted to do something with his job in health care, as a nurse. He went to work for the university hospital in Utrecht. In the Netherlands, the rules for actions became increasingly strict. Makes sense. We later also got the BIG registration, the Law BIG. Because he had a degree from abroad, from Morocco, more and more acts were taken away from him, until he was a nurse in the hospital, above all, just to have a chat with the various patients. Then they called him and said, "Abdel, we have good news and we have bad news. Let's start with the bad news. You're superstitious. You don't have a degree to work here at the hospital as a nurse, so we can't actually employ you. But the good news is that we can give you some kind of civil servant-ww. This is a benefit that you can keep until your pension and you never have to apply for." My father was like: yes, a free bag of money; I'm not crazy, of course I do. When I was a kid, I saw a big, strong, great guy, with a lot of meaning, lead back to a shadow of his former self, that he had lost all sense of life, that he had no function in society and that he didn't know what to do anymore. At that time the Dutch government, the hospital and Dutch society should have grabbed him by his vest and said: "Abdel, you can do it. You know what we're gonna do? We're going to help you with the Dutch language and we're going to offer you an MBO 4-diploma nurse, because you have the knowledge; that's not the problem. You know how it works. You just need help with the language and you need help getting that diploma." They should have. Then they abandoned him. I've seen him on his deathbed say to me what his greatest disappointment in life was. I'll be damned if we're gonna treat the people of Bonaire the same way, that we're gonna make them happy with a dead sparrow, which is that we're gonna realize training in the Papiaments until the moment they want to continue growing and rising and maybe not just on the island doing great things, but outside the island trying to spread their wings, and then they're gonna hear from us: "Sorry, your MBO diploma is worth less. Sorry, you've got a lockdown for higher education. Sorry, you won't make it." That is why I ask the Minister... No, I demand from the Minister to work together with the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education and to work on a lifelong development and learning, which is in his portfolio, to really tackle this problem in Bonaire and also in the BES islands and to ensure that the Dutch language is strengthened and that we help people who work and lag behind in the Dutch language. In the end they can simply do level 3, level 4 in the Dutch language and spread their wings, and do not end up in the same situation as my father ended up in, namely that he looked at me on his deathbed, with a tear in his eyes, and especially said what he regretted and what he would have done differently. Mr. Chairman. That concludes my speech. I really hope that the Minister will work on the language deficit and ensure that the position of people on Bonaire is strengthened and strengthened so that they can pursue their own happiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u32	There is still an interruption by Mrs Hagen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u33	Apart from Mr El Yassini's flaming speech, for which I would like to thank you very much: I would like to return to the legislative proposal. It is now about keeping small and low expectations; there are a lot of things being added. But this bill is about an exception. The training may therefore make an exception. What I do not understand so well is why you ignore the fact that these people are currently working at a lower wage than they would need to meet their basic needs. This training which they can take in the Papiaments gives them a better future, precisely in line with Mr El Yassini's speech. Then why are you ignoring that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u34	I've been trying to tell Mrs. Hagen a few times. If I had said here behind the cathedral "we're not going to do anything at all; I think it's fine" she would have been absolutely right. But that's not what I do. I call on this minister and his colleagues in the cabinet to ensure that the position of people on Bonaire is strengthened, and to work together with employers, competent authority and the MBO school in Bonaire to ensure that they can continue to grow. I mention the assistant chef who now works at level 2 and who has had the training in the Papiaments, which once caused the problem, and who can now finally pop through it and make something of himself. If I hadn't said that, Mrs Hagen would have been absolutely right to ask why I'm keeping these people small. But that's not what I want. I want us not only to ensure that the bar stays high, but also that people get a wrist stick to jump over it. That is in the hands of the cabinet and this minister. I am confident that this Minister will work on this and that we will not create situations where we will be back in this Chamber in ten years' time, looking back and thinking: yes, that was a sympathetic proposal, but perhaps we should not have done so at all. That is why I prefer to be critical in my work, controlling the cabinet and representing the people, and even against the bill to ensure that lives get better and more beautiful in the end and that people can really just make something out of their own lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you for your input in the first term. The next speaker will be Mrs Hagen, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For students' chances it is important that Bonaire students are powerful in the Dutch language. But this bill is tailor-made, an exception for a small target group in vocational education, so that the Papiaments-speaking sous chef can become a cook with an MBO 2 programme and language is not a barrier. Bonaire's great desire is to better match the needs of the local labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u37	Sorry, just a correction to Mrs. Hagen. I hear her talking about sous-chef level two every time. A sous chef is level four. A sous chef is actually the underchief, the number two in rank in a star kitchen. Level two is assistant chef. It's like a sous chef can't flow to chef right now. It's really different. The levels are different from those proposed by Mrs Van Hagen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mrs. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u39	Yeah, no "Van." I don't think this was a question. It is therefore a great wish of Bonaire to better match the needs of the local labour market. The legislative proposal before us is loud and clear: give students who have already obtained a degree at MBO 2 level or who have demonstrated that level of work and thinking all the opportunities to move on to MBO 3 or 4, namely by offering exams at these levels also in Papiaments to a small group that cannot now continue learning. D66 therefore warmly welcomes the legislative proposal. Mbo students in Bonaire can take a next step in their career. Mr. Chairman. Since we are keen on this bill, I would like to use my time to ask about two other issues relating to education in the Caribbean Netherlands. Last week, a column appeared in the Volkskrant with the message that every year 1,600 students from the Caribbean part of the Kingdom start a study in the Netherlands, but that more than half of them do not succeed in the training. They may not have a diploma, but they do have a college debt. I know that the Minister has paid attention to this and I am looking forward to the latest state of affairs. What steps have been taken over the past year to improve the situation of these students and what is the Minister going to do to achieve study success for these young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr Bertema has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u41	I'm gonna hit that "warm heart" for a second. We also have a warm heart for Bonaire and also for the local economy there. Why does that "warm heart" have to be translated from a demand of business, a very justified demand? They have a huge need for skilled staff, they actually know that it is difficult because there is a language disadvantage among those young people there and they immediately look at the Netherlands and the WEB, in this case the WEB BES. What they really want is an infringement of the civil effect of those diplomas that should be protected by the Dutch inspection and by all of us, and certainly by you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u42	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u43	Through the chairman. Yeah, I'll tell you through the chairman. I wonder why the local economy does not unite there if they all have the same problem, and set up independent business training, if necessary in cooperation with teachers of the roc and the mbo-training there, just as is often the case in the Netherlands. Then they serve the local market, serve the ambitions of the young people who live there and need...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u44	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u45	...we don't have to worry about whether these Dutch-language requirements are so important. Then they'll hold it in their own hands. Isn't that a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u46	In my view, the legislative proposal is very clear: it is an exception for training. At the moment there are students who speak Papiaments and therefore have a huge barrier to further learning. As a result, with the wage they earn now, they cannot properly meet their basic needs. We would very much like to offer a wide range of jobs to students of this kind, who will then be able to continue learning for the local economy. Moreover, many European Dutch people are currently going to Bonaire, and that cannot be the case. We would like it to be arranged locally as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u47	Again, I hear that word "exceptions." But exceptions do not relate to the civil effect. What you saw in Bonaire is one exception after another. Of course, all this comes from a warm social heart, but sometimes you have to put aside that warm social heart, I say to Mrs Hagen through the chairman. Because this is about something else. This is something bigger, and that is the civil effect. All those exceptions from those good, warm bleeding hearts don't matter. The civil effect is the civil effect. I can ask you, through the chairman, whether you consider this civil effect to be important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u48	I think that this proposal is an excellent response to the wishes of the local people in Bonaire. I think it is therefore fine to make an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u49	In conclusion, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yes, concluding, Mr. Chairman. All those Frisians who speak Frisian and the Limburgers who speak Limburgs obviously do not have that problem. There is no need to make an exception for them. For them, the warm, bleeding heart is not opened by D66. No, it's about the people on Bonaire again. What I sense with you is therefore a penchant for those soft bigotry of low expectations. Like they can't learn Dutch there. They're not pathetic, Mrs. Hagen, I say through the chairman. They can do a lot. If you can get a level 4 diploma, you can also learn a little Dutch. It doesn't have to be flawless, but you can. You don't think they can. And I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u51	Of course, that's not what I said at all. In fact, as a teacher, I know better than anyone that expectations contribute to the final achievement of students. But here it is about creating a specific barrier for students to continue to grow. And if I also like to see something as a teacher, it's that they can grow into what they want to learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u52	I would like to mention the exception that Mrs Hagen is talking about, because I have heard her say that a few times. At least it seems to be a reason for her to say: well, you know what, come on, because it's such an exception, it should be possible. I have the following specific question for Mrs Hagen. It is said that it is only exceptional, namely in sectors where Dutch is not required. Can Mrs Hagen tell us exactly what the review framework is for sectors where Dutch is not required on Bonaire? Did she see that? Did she get that from the Ministry? Has it at least seen who is next to it and how it is then tested? If you vote in favour of this bill and it goes through the Lower House and the Upper House, what brake do you have to make sure that not all the courses are in the Papiaments, but not the exception, but the rule?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u53	You started very well with "Mrs. Hagen," but then you started again with "you." It is really the intention to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u54	Some five questions have been asked. I don't have a pen, so I couldn't keep up with all of them, but then maybe I should've sat in "K." The most important thing, I think, is to ensure that the barriers are removed so that the children can continue to learn. This exception gives this possibility for specific training courses. It can't be that we're double standards. On the one hand, you say that it has to come from the companies and that business must have a business in it and take it up. But on the other hand, you say: but not too much, because we would like to return it. In my opinion, it is very good that we, as a government, should simply say that training is allowed to deviate from it. In addition, the training courses are still free. I hear this coming back again and again to simply give the course Dutch. Well, that's just what the students can choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u55	I see that I have asked too many questions at once, because I do not get an answer to any of the five questions. So I'll just stick to one question; maybe that's a little more convenient. Mrs Hagen mentioned that it was an exception. The explanatory statement says that it is applied in sectors in which Dutch is not required. What is the review framework that we have received from the cabinet? Because I believe that both Mrs Hagen and I have not seen a review framework to say when Dutch is required or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u56	I think that is the only question I have answered. On the contrary, I say that the business community can see a number of things on its own. I think we'll hear from the Minister how he sees this and how it happened. I am sure the Minister will take that up. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I'll come to a conclusion. Otherwise, I'm gonna repeat myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u57	A brief point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u58	Really rounding up, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u59	This is weird. Look, there are different teaching parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mr. El Yassini, you can't find the answer satisfactory, but two answers have already been given. Really rounding up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u61	Yeah, well, I hear Mrs Hagen talking about "business this" and "business that." I believe that we are here with the Minister of Education and not with the Minister of Employment or the Minister of Economic Affairs. We are talking here about the Education and Vocational Training Act, what we are going to modify or change, and that is where it has to do with the testing framework. So the moment we give that opportunity, we leave it completely free to anyone. My question is therefore: what is the review framework? Or did Mrs. Haga, Hagen...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u62	That's the third one. I think you've had all those politicians by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u63	Yeah, three names go through... Or does Mrs Hagen not need a review framework? 'Cause that's possible, isn't it? Then she just gives it up, but then, I guess, she shouldn't talk about an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u64	Finally, Mrs Hagen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u65	I believe that this responsibility can be well placed in training, just as we also assume that there will be training relevant to this labour market. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. I actually have one more point I would like to make, and that is my colleague, Mr Wuite's motion on the recognition of a kingdom grant for Caribbean students. I am actually very curious about the latest state of affairs. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you for your input. Then the next speaker from the Chamber will be Mrs Bouchallichh, who will speak on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not a long speech, because the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also thinks this is a good idea. It is an explicit demand of Bonaire himself; there is great support there. This bill ensures market functioning and accessibility for students, and all relevant parties have been helped to do so. I do have some additional questions, also in response to the written questions. This is particularly about the consultation. As the VVD has just indicated, it is indeed extremely important that input comes from different perspectives. I read that the school community in Bonaire was consulted during the consultation of the legislative amendment, and that the Minister assumes that there has also been extensive discussions with students. My question is: to what extent has there been direct communication with students themselves, so that we can really assess what the wishes and demands are in that regard? And can the Minister promise that the student perspective will be taken into account in the monitoring of the legislative change? More generally, I would also like to hear from the Minister what this process looks like with other legislative proposals, because we would like this to be dealt with in a structural manner. I just happened to be in the part about student participation. I would appreciate it if we could get that right on the islands as well. Finally, and that can be very brief. I am also the spokesman for Kingdom relations, and here on this file everything comes together. What I find extremely important is that, in our deliberations here, we assume equal relations with the islands. And I really hear things here about low expectations or patronizing and such. But I think we are talking about a wish that has been expressed very explicitly to us, and I would like to include this explicitly in the discussion of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u68	Another interruption by Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yes, when I hear this speech, I do indeed think: there must be an interruption. Does Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks agree or disagree that the value of an MBO diploma on Bonaire, with this bill, is less valuable than here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u70	I heard Mr El Yassini at the beginning of his speech really enthusiastically say that he is about making his own choices, chasing your dreams. As far as I am concerned, the value of a diploma also depends on how much it does justice to the individual's wishes. So if a student will be helped with this diploma, that is a good development as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u71	Then I'm going to ask him differently: is an MBO degree on Bonaire worth less than an MBO diploma in the province of North Holland?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u72	I think that is a very direct yes-no question, which I think has a lot of colors of grey. So I'm not gonna answer that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u73	Last question: if we apply the law change, a student MBO level 4 who obtained the diploma in Bonaire does not have access to higher education in the Netherlands, and an MBO level 4 student in North Holland does; is this correct or is this not correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u74	What I would like to say is that if this change of law is successful, a student who wishes to give further training in the Papiaments has more access to education than is currently the case. As far as I am concerned, that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. This really is not an answer to the question. And I'm really sorry about that, because we're talking about taking down the value of an MBO degree. It is crucial that we are going to guard and protect that in the Chamber, and I simply do not hear Mrs Bouchallichh go into that. The fact is that the value of an MBO degree on Bonaire is going to be less valuable in this way, and she does not want to go into that. I think that is a shame, because we are talking about equality between the islands and the Netherlands. This is exactly why I'm against the bill. You are removing this equality, that equality, between the islands and the Netherlands at one stroke by reducing the value of the MBO diploma compared to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. El Yassini, you speak again in the u-form and you took the floor without me giving you that. I would like to give Mrs Bouchallichh the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u77	On the contrary, I am incredibly in favour of equality. In that regard, the choice of the student is decisive as far as I am concerned. And if students at Bonaire indicate that they want to obtain a diploma in a particular language, that should be possible as far as I am concerned. In my view, Mr El Yassini is preventing these students from taking up education in the way that works best for them. In doing so, he will deny them access to it. I think that is precisely an undermining of equivalence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u78	Thank you for your input. Finally, Mr Bertema will speak on behalf of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot has been said about it. At present, the Papiamento is exclusively reserved for MBO levels 1 and 2, as an explicit exception for students who have not received a Dutch pre-school. This law, however, aims to make it possible to offer, once again as an explicit exception, that is again the second exception to vocational education at MBO levels 3 and 4 and the related examinations in Papiaments. Mind you, these would still be qualifications guaranteed by the WEB, the WEB BES in this case. These are therefore qualifications with a civil effect, guaranteed by the Dutch government and a BES government, under the auspices of the Dutch Education Inspectorate. We're here to guard that. But these Papiament-speaking qualifications under levels 3 and 4 are in turn excluded from the right of admission to European-Dutch further education, such as the associate degree in HBO. That's messy. In fact, this line affects the civil impact of the diplomas levels 3 and 4 in the core. A number of practical objections are also raised. Look at the textbooks and the study material, which should be translated from Dutch to Papiaments. You must understand that level 3 is a full-fledged vocational training. Mr. El Yassini has already explained that incredibly clearly. Level 4 is even a specialist training course. Part of this is the technical language. It will be very difficult if it is to be invented for the Papiaments as it were. Who's gonna do that? Is there enough capacity for that? Who is going to take full and linguistic care of those specialist lessons? Who is going to take the guidance in the chefs sector or in the construction sector or anywhere else? I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Mr. Chairman. Our main objection is that too often it is stressed that these are exceptions, which started with the setting up of Papiament language training courses at levels 1 and 2. Those exceptions that were made favourable at the time, that was from the good heart, and very understandable, are now overtaken by those explicit exceptions for levels 3 and 4, not least the full-time vocational training and specialist training. All this is happening under the umbrella of the civil impact that the WEB BES should have. Don't we have to do anything? We understand very well the need to meet this group of students, but as far as we are concerned, this should not extend beyond levels 1 and 2, the entrance training. That's how it happened. For full-time vocational training and specialist training at levels 3 and 4, we must guard against the civil impact and resist the tendency to those maleized soft bigotry of low expectations; they really can do something. We must not send those talented students into the labour market with a lack of qualifications to lock them up in the local labour market, while we are running the flames here to provide MBOs with sound and continuous learning lines. We are doing nothing else about lifelong learning. We then also lock them in a local economy that is extremely vulnerable and has great fluctuations. We saw that during the lockdowns during the covid pandemic. If the American cruise ships stop docking, it will have disastrous consequences for the situation in the local labour market. What I have already mentioned for a while in the interrupting debate with Mrs Hagen is that, after obtaining the entrance training at levels 1 and 2, you offer a specialist cook's programme or a Papiament language training installation technique, in collaboration with the local business community. This can be done as bbl training, which also meets the needs of the local labour market, but not under the umbrella of the web, but under the umbrella of local business. Why not? We have all these corporate trainings here, too, which are fantastic. Then we will meet the local needs of the labour market and the career prospects of these students. Although this remains limited to the island, it does not have an eroding effect on the civilian impact of diplomas at levels 3 and 4. If we want to maintain the civil effect, I am really convinced that we in the Chamber sometimes have to ignore those emotions of sadness and I know a lot about it, then we will sometimes have to take unpopular measures. Mr. Chairman. The civil effect is either or it isn't. It's the same as... you can't be a little pregnant, either. Either you're pregnant or you're not. The civil effect exists or does not exist. Exceptions I have just said that there is no connection whatsoever with the civil effect. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-8.u81	I propose that we suspend until 2.15 p.m. so that the Minister can prepare himself for the reply and the members can have lunch.
