ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of the Member Kops amending the Housing Act 2014 in relation to the exception of the granting of priority to licence holders in housing on the basis that they are holders of the authorisation, Section 35914. First of all, I would like to welcome the initiator in trade union K. It is always very nice to see that there are MPs who take the trouble to make initiative laws, because that is always a lot of work. We also call that the artisan Chamberwork. In any case, I would like to congratulate you on bringing us to this debate today. It is already the third initiative for Mr Kops, so there is already some experience. In Box K there is also the support that Mr Kops has brought. That is Mr Elmar Vlottes, a member of the PVV Group, whom I would also like to welcome. The advisor to the House of Representatives is the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning, who will advise the Chamber on any questions. This brings me to the end of my introduction and we'll start right away. The intention is that today we will only do the first term on the side of the Chamber. We do the rest of the bill at a time when the initiator says it's a good time to prosecute. Then we'll see what's possible in the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u2	We will first listen to Mr De Graaf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's actually a global wisdom: you can have a lot of love for others, but if you forget yourself, you go down. That leads to burn-out at first and if you're not careful about worse. That's how it works, of course, with the rule of the country. That is why I am pleased that my colleague, Mr Kops, has tabled this proposal. They sometimes say: the best ideas fit on the side of a beer skin. Well, that's 100% here. This can have a good impact and provide a nice solution for the state of our country, at least as far as housing is concerned. Mr. Chairman. We're going to January last year. Then De Telegraaf headlined: "Great pressure from asylum seekers on housing. Other house seekers have to wait even longer." And, "Separate parents to homeless shelters." We are now more than a year further. What happened in the meantime? Well, this. We have a migration balance of 100,000. That's a city as big as Alkmaar or Venlo that's joined since then, and already more. In the meantime, we have a State Secretary for Asylum and Immigration who literally says "the more asylum seekers, the better" and a Minister for People's Houses who wants more residences to go to status holders with priority. In this respect, consideration of the present initiative proposal will not come too soon. It's called "Exempting Law Priority Licensees." A law which, if passed, which I sincerely hope, puts an end to the priority that houses are given away to status holders. A law that puts an end to the discrimination against Dutch people in the housing market. Mr. Chairman. There is a hurry, because the cabinet fails in these areas. The cabinet fails when it comes to housing. No less than 300,000 homes are currently lacking in the Netherlands. The cabinet also fails when it comes to asylum and immigration. The influx is huge, every day. Anyone who comes here obviously wants a place to live. We understand that very well. This brings me straight to another point, which is often used by opponents: you hate asylum seekers and you don't give them anything. No, we give everyone in the world everything: a good house, a good roof, a good economy, prosperity, well-being and mental health. We give it to everyone, but you can't house everyone in the Netherlands. I refer directly to the first sentence I just said. Housing and open borders: the two simply do not go together. Who are the victims of that? Just the Dutch house seekers, who have been on waiting lists for so long. If you're looking for a social rental in the Netherlands, forget it. In a quarter of all municipalities you are on the waiting list for more than seven years. That is only an average, because some municipalities even have a waiting period of 17 years. Seventeen years of waiting; just a little while longer and you have to register your child six months before birth for a rental house, otherwise it will never have a chance again. After that, you'll have to sign up for school. There are almost 40,000 homeless people in the Netherlands. That's a doubling in the last 10, 12 years. Economic homelessness is also a fact. People who have a job and an income cannot get or find a home because of the housing crisis. Single women with children forced from camping to camping. Do you want me to do it again? Single women with children forced from camping to camping. I think it's crying to heaven. Other house seekers, who sleep on the couch with acquaintances, because otherwise they are literally on the street. It's a big deal. And what to say about the congregations that say to these people: unfortunately, we cannot do anything for you. You're not gonna get a high priority. Why don't you go to a hotel or go to the homeless shelter? Those are literal lyrics. It really happens in the Netherlands. This is how people are treated here, who seem to be unlucky that they are Dutch and not asylum seekers, not status holders. Because, chairman, while Dutch people have to wait endlessly on a waiting list, these status holders are given massive priority over a home. Over the last week and days, it's been a lot in the press, in the media. But let's face it: this has been a long standing practice. For years. As of 2010, twelve years ago, there are already certain to be held on to 130,000 residences given priority to status holders. And why is that? Status holders are given priority because they hold status. Because it has been decided that status holders should be pulled out. Because it has been decided that Dutch people can and can be discriminated against in their own country, and that they will be discriminated against in their own country. That they can also be withdrawn from the housing market. They're conscious choices. It's policy. But, Mr President, for the Minister on this subject, the situation of the Dutch house seeker is not yet hopeless and hopeless enough. He wants more status holders to be given priority. But how, so I ask the Minister, through you, Mr. Chairman. What kind of apartments? However, the Minister says it will have to be done. What about the Dutch? I wonder. Then the Minister will say, "But it will have to be done." It must and it will, and then you are, we know from the past, the minister of compulsion and urge, of obligation and imposition. You can't do that, Mr. Chairman. The minister wasn't even elected. He's been appointed. We were elected here in the Lower House by Dutch citizens, by Dutch residents with the right to vote. We weren't chosen by anyone else, and we don't work for people from abroad either. "And yet it will have to," says the Minister. It is the argument, I think, of a pounding toddler or of a parent who is overwhelmed by his wiser teenage children. "It's gonna have to be." Mr. Chairman. Giving priority to status holders is nothing more than a means of further facilitating immigration. A question therefore to the Minister. When does the cabinet conclude that this situation is not sustainable? After all, even the biggest asylum seeker cuddlers must at some point draw the conclusion that it is no longer possible to do so? You have feelings for your people in the country, don't you? Last year, 24,500 status holders had to be housed. This year it's 1,000 less, but together it's still 48,000 in two years. And the azc's currently have another 14,000 status holders waiting for a home. So the numbers are huge and every home that goes to a status holder does not go to people who have been on the waiting list here in the Netherlands for a long time. And those aren't all Dutch, you know. They are also people of Turkish or Moroccan descent, Surinamese descent. They come from everywhere, but they have often become Dutcher and are also on those waiting lists. That is why I do not understand the left-wing parties, which are often opposed to this type of proposal, because they too deny their supporters. The municipalities can't handle it, the housing market can't handle it and this country just can't handle it. Mr. Chairman. The government's open border policy increases the housing crisis, as has been said. Until 2030, the cabinet wants nearly a million houses to be built up. Apart from the fact that there are very few new construction plans, who are these homes intended for? Last year, the then Minister for the Interior announced that no less than three quarters of all houses to be built are intended for people from the countries of migration. The rest is for Dutch. So we are mainly building for migrants, and population growth is also coming, as we know, mainly through migration. In the meantime, municipalities are very busy building whole districts and villages as a matter of urgency. They are simply stamped out of the ground, complete migration villages: especially for asylum seekers. So-called flex houses and other creative solutions: especially for asylum seekers. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is that this rapid housing can be done, that is to say when it comes to asylum seekers. Then suddenly anything is possible. The municipalities and the cabinet did so much effort for the Dutch house seekers, but they do not. A question to the initiator, to Mr Kops, through you, President. Is his law of course important to ask also apply to this kind of emergency accommodation? Finally, Mr President. It is high time that the promotion of status holders stopped and that the discrimination against Dutch people stopped. The Act excepting priority license holders arranges that. I very much hope that it will be adopted. Actually, it's a very logical law. Let us restore the logic, which is often lacking in politics, by adopting this law. That is why thanks and also compliments to the initiator Kops. The PVV Group is looking forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u4	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Geurts, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u5	Just to kick it off: Mr De Graaf of the PVV makes it as if all the houses added to the housing stock would be needed for status holders or asylum seekers. If you look at the last letter of Parliament we received, you will see that the task is 9%. It's going to 12.5%. That means that out of every 100 homes there are currently 9 for asylum seekers. We can't do half the houses, so that's gotta be 13 homes. That's the difference, 100 compared to 13, so don't make it bigger than it is. But that's not my question. My question is on another front. If you implement the proposed ban on priority for licence holders in this way, how does Mr De Graaf see the task also set out in the Housing Act 2014, in Article 28, namely that the municipalities have a duty to house licence holders on the basis of a six-monthly assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u6	Yeah, look, that's where it's gonna sand, except for the question of whether we're gonna make it too big, yes or no. We're not making it too big at all. The law has two very short articles, but can have a huge impact. We see how many harrowing cases there are in the Netherlands. To get back to the first part of Mr Geurts' comment: as I said, we also saw that the Minister of the Interior from the previous cabinet said "that's actually the same cabinet as now, but it was another minister who had to go three quarters of these homes to status holders until 2030. That is more than the figures in the letter of inquiry which Mr Geurts refers to. We don't make it bigger than it is. The problem is incredibly big. It's poignant. It's horrible. Then part two. The PVV has always argued... And there the CDA with the question actually runs into its own sword, because this problem wouldn't have existed if we had previously................................................................................................................................................. 'Cause we can't take everyone in here. A country like Kazakhstan has about 80 times as much land area as the Netherlands. It has 1 million inhabitants less. It's rich in gas and oil. They have two hospital beds per 1,000 inhabitants more than the Netherlands. Yay, health care! That is a prosperous country where things are going fairly well and where there is plenty of room to build many asylum seekers' villages. Then I wonder why Mr Geurts doesn't go to Almaty or Astana or what's the name of this city these days, Nur-Sultan, to talk to the president of: "Oh, can you help us a little, because the Netherlands is full?" Then I come to the question about the Housing Act 2014. Yes, that might have been a nice question ten years ago, but that question is now ten years too late, because it is because the borders are open. As long as it doesn't close, you're in the middle of that job. It is precisely this law that prevents that target from being met. We are helping with this law to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u7	I'm being sent around the world with the answer, but I can't get an answer to my question. I am concerned that Article 28 is still in the Housing Act. The task for municipalities still stands, whether or not this bill is passed. My question to the PVV is: how do you deal with that? Does the PVV think that they should make the problem so big that it solves itself, or are they also in favour of solving the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u8	I can be of the utmost service to Mr Geurts, and I did so in the last part of my reply, because if you close the borders and adopt this law, you will prevent the task from being as high as it is today. That is why I very much hope for support from the CDA angle. This solves a huge problem rather than creating a problem. The problem presented by Mr Geurts is a legally constructed problem, and we will lose that problem if this law is passed. So I'm hoping for support from the CDA, because then we've really achieved something beautiful, just the two of us, and I hope with more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u9	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u10	Thank you, Madam President. The social housing, where are they going? Not to Dutch. For years, status holders have been given priority over the rental market. For years, this has had a huge impact on our country's viability, because we have already had quite a few asylum crises. You must remember that hundreds of thousands of Syrians came to the Netherlands. That will all be engraved in your memory. Of these, there are still at least 80,000 in the Netherlands and they all now receive permanent residence permits. They all had to live somewhere. Every year there are tens of thousands of asylum seekers coming from all over the world, all of whom ultimately have to live somewhere, on top of the 100,000 more people a year who come to the Netherlands structurally as a migrant worker and so on. That puts enormous pressure on our housing market. That puts enormous pressure on the housing market for our own people. Mr. De Graaf of the PVV has just mentioned a number of categories of people who can't find a house now. I would like to add the figures, because I find them absolutely shocking. I absolutely think that should be mentioned here for once. About 40,000 people are currently homeless in the Netherlands. 60,000 to about 80,000 sleeping on a campsite or in a recreation accommodation. Between 150,000 and 200,000 young people cannot find a home and must stay with their parents. Those are the numbers of people we're talking about. Instead of helping those people, we choose to bring 100,000 people to the Netherlands every year and give them a home. That's terrible, isn't it? In the meantime, waiting periods per municipality have risen to about ten years on average for a social housing unit, with outliers to fifteen, sometimes up to seventeen years. If you sign up for a social rental house when you're 18, there's a very good chance that you still won't be able to get a social rental house when you're 30. In fact, if you come a little towards a modal income then you end up in a gap where you also make too little money for a rental house on the private market. So these people are falling completely between shore and ship. Instead of doing something about it, we are constantly trying to get people from abroad from all over the world to come here and give them priority over homes that are meant for our own people. Now we have a minister who says: we need to extend these priority rules even further, because then we can empty the azc's in the social housing and bring even more asylum seekers to the Netherlands. It's crazy, isn't it? This can't be explained and sold to our own people, can it? When I look at the left side of the room, the whole left side of the room is empty! I was just sitting there and I thought, "Where is everybody?" The only left-wing party here is D66, but everyone else is just absent. It's a hell of a scandal. It draws the contempt these parties have for our people, for our own people. We have been elected here as representatives of the people of the Netherlands, not for the Syrian people, not for the Afghan people, not for the Ukrainian people. No, the Dutch people and only the Dutch people. Those people have to live somewhere. These people even have a fundamental right to housing, but that seems to have been completely forgotten here. That's why this is such a wonderful proposal from the PVV, because every day piles of paper are produced here, which are meant to put the Dutch people at a disadvantage, but with one sentence a huge leap is made here in favour of the Dutch people. It's an ornament of simplicity. For this I would like to congratulate the author. I also have a question for the initiator: is this sufficiently exhaustive? Because when I read it like that, I paraphrase for a moment, because I do not have the legal text in front of me that a statement of urgency may not be issued on the basis of a residence permit. But can't municipalities go around saying that they have all kinds of other grounds, so that they can still give them categorical priority? That is a question for the author. I look forward to the answers. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The Forum for Democracy is in favour of helping our own people. For decades, the Dutch population has been structurally lagging behind. For decades, Dutch people have been watching as homes go to people from all over the world and they sit with their hands in their hair and wonder: when will I get my turn? It is incredibly hopeless to register on a waiting list for a social rental house, while 200 other people have also registered for the same property. There may be figures showing that only 9%, 12% or 13% of homes to... But you have to imagine that you're that person. Every time you sign up for a place like this, someone shows up with an urgent order and you check it again. Those people spend years waiting hopelessly for a place to live, but they don't get it. That doesn't just mean they can't live anywhere. You often hear: in many cases they already have a roof over their heads, blah, blah, blah. But that means they can't start their lives. This is about a lot of young people. Those people want to make something out of their lives, they want to live on their own, they want to start and they want to start a family. You don't do that as long as you live with your parents. That causes all kinds of problems in everyday life. Relationships get complicated. There's no way you can start a family. This is an additional consequence of this kind of legislation, not of Mr Kops' legislation, but of the legislation that now exists to give priority to status holders. As a result, our population has been declining for decades. The only reason we still have growth is immigration. One of the main reasons for this is that there is no prospect at all for young people and start-ups. They always have to line up in the back, they have to postpone their lives and they've always checked. It's time we changed that and this bill is a wonderful first step in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u11	Thank you. Before you walk away, there is a question from Mrs Podt of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u12	Forum for Democracy I almost wanted to say 'the PVV', my apology is making a whole speech about the importance for people to get a home quickly. We support that, of course. I think we all see that at the moment there are a lot of people who have to put their lives on hold until they can live somewhere. That's terrible. But when people were talked about who cannot start their lives, I also had to think about all the people who are currently in asylum-seekers' centres. They also very much want to start their lives. They want to work and integrate into Dutch society. What does the Forum for Democracy think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u13	I really want these people to start their lives, but we have no duty to those people. We have a duty to our own people so that they can start their lives. We are not in favour of constantly including all these tens of thousands of asylum seekers here. Let them go back to their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u14	Then I wonder if we will not be back here in a while and the Forum for Democracy is going to make another point of all kinds of people who are not integrated and who do not want to get to work, because all this has not been done again. That is very often a result of the fact that people have to wait so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u15	We are not in favour of the integration of tens of thousands of people here every year. It is fine that some immigrants come here every year, but we do not want a structural supply of tens of thousands of people coming to the Netherlands from all over the world. Those people don't need to be categorically integrated here, so I don't see that as a structural problem. I'm doing another prophecy. I think we'll be standing here in a few years' time with our hands in our hair and saying, "Where have all the houses gone? How is it that we have a housing shortage of 300,000 homes? And there is another problem: how is it that we are in traffic every morning?'. If you structurally add 100,000 people a year to your population... You can laugh, ma'am... Take, for example, the A4. You laugh at my suggestion that it also creates a traffic problem, but if you add 100,000 people to your population every year, it has a huge impact on your country's viability, on housing, on transport and traffic, on the healthcare capacity, which we have all been dealing with, and on education. This is a very bad idea across the board. We need to stop doing that sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u18	Then we'll go to Mr. Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u19	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kops rightly calls for attention to be paid to the housing problems of licence holders. It is good that we have the opportunity today to discuss and discuss this issue. I thank the initiator for that. If you look superficially at the PVV bill, you agree with the tension that the initiator sketches in the explanatory statement. I say it in my own words: because of the housing shortage, fewer and fewer people are able to find a good and affordable home. And yes, people with low or middle income have to do with years of waiting for social housing. Emergency seekers have to wait too long for a safe place to live and the number of homeless people are going to have increased in recent years. In short, there are many house seekers and there are too few homes to meet the demand. But if you look below the surface of the PVV proposal, you don't see a sustainable contribution to a solution. The legislative proposal does not take into account the complexity behind the housing of licence holders. In the end, the PVV proposal will not solve anything. In short, the PVV opts for symptom control. Mr. Chairman. If sufficient alternative accommodation for licence holders is not achieved, displacement will continue to exist. After all, the task of municipalities to house status holders remains. Meanwhile, however, the inflow has become so large that an excessive flow has arisen. The system doesn't work anymore. That's the problem now. That is the most painful thing for the people who have been on a waiting list for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u20	Mr Geurts pretends that it is some kind of biological or spiritual law that the system no longer works and that we can all do nothing about it. But in many years in which that problem has arisen, the CDA has been at the helm, in the center of power. Then there will be a solution. I just said that it fits on the side of a beer skin; these are the best ideas and Mr Geurts says: "The PVV does not contribute to a solution, because the complexity of the market is not being addressed." Of course, it is always a very nice distraction to say: the complexity is so enormous and this proposal is too simple. But it is the other way around: with good, easy to implement and easily describe proposals, the biggest problems are solved. Often with a very small push against a dominoes you can drop a lot. Does Mr Geurts see that he is actually turning things around?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u21	I do not, of course, agree with the first part of the argument. Yes, the CDA participated in a cabinet for many years, but the PVV also had that opportunity and when it really mattered, the PVV ran away. So there's an answer to that part. Also in the years in which the VVD and the PvdA formed a cabinet together, and in all these other years we have indicated that this is a problem that needs to be resolved. So I'm not telling a new story here. I have already given you the answer to the last part in my interruption: I think it is a symptom reduction. The real problem will not be solved, because this six-monthly task will continue to stand, regardless of whether or not this initiative law is adopted. That's why I think it's a piece of windowdressing. But I would like to take it very seriously this evening to make it clear that there are other solutions as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u22	I don't think the 2012 answer is serious, because it was the CDA that wanted the PVV out of the Catshuis. In the meantime, a lot of witness statements have made that clear. So that answer doesn't apply. I, too, want to debate it very seriously, but the CDA says and maintains that the population and its constituents are so complex and that the proposal that lies ahead is a symptom reduction. That's impossible, isn't it? So I will come back to the first point I just made: Mr Geurts of the CDA is turning the case around. I would like Mr Geurts to see that. What can I do, would I almost ask, to show him that he's turning things around?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u23	Everyone has a right to their own reality. Mr De Graaf has that, but it is his reality and not mine. That's about the years we talked about at the beginning. On the second point, Mr De Graaf did not go into the interruptions I committed either. Of course, it is not a question of solving a problem at all, because this half-yearly task will remain, regardless of whether this law comes into force or not. Eventually, and I've just tried to indicate that too, I'll say a little more about that in a moment.It's just that we're adding more houses to the housing offer in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u24	Mr. De Graaf, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u25	It is a good thing that Mr Geurts is making that point again. That task remains standing, but if you only assume the task, then you deny the problem. Then you make the problem more complex than it is. When you say "we don't allow people anymore or very few people" you prevent a task from being set. So you have to solve the problem at the front. What the PVV is doing now with this bill is providing a good solution to the current situation that has arisen from others. But it also needs to be solved in the front. Is the CDA prepared to make a living in the cabinet for that? Perhaps Mr Geurts can use his lines to all the ministers of the CDA in the cabinet and say: boys, those boundaries must be closed; then we can all solve this problem together with the Law-Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u26	But now two things are getting mixed up. Mr De Graaf may do very well, but it is not an asylum debate this evening. That's possible, but that's not the main issue. This is the initiative proposed by Mr Kops of the PVV. That's the item on the agenda tonight. It sets out a prohibition of priority for licence holders. I would argue that this is not the solution to the problem we are facing. And yes, I say to Mr De Graaf: read the paragraph, which is also included in the government agreement on asylum seekers. But that is a really different story from what is being put forward here tonight. I agree that things have to happen there. So we do not disagree on this, but what I am saying here is that this law really does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u27	In the coalition agreement on "Seeing each other" - which is actually a bit of a cynical title - it says that the CDA wants, among other things, to meet the conditions of the Refugee Convention in order to control migratory flows and achieve return. Does Mr Geurts think that is happening now? Excuse me, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u28	No, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u29	Oh, I thought the mic was off for a second. Does Mr Geurts think that this is happening now, that the conditions of the Refugee Convention are now being implemented to the letter of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u30	I didn't go into it at that level or run it to the letter. The cabinet's busy. Last week we also received a progress letter on the current issue of licence holders. This evening we are talking about the law that I have already mentioned a few times, namely Mr Kops' initiative law to advertise the PVV. We shouldn't mix things up and think this is the solution. Mr Kops and the PVV Group believe that their law is the solution to solve the problem of status holders. I would point out that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u31	That is interesting, because it is clear here that the CDA has also signed this Convention to control migratory flows and to achieve return. Then we come to Mr Kops's proposal, because that is a point that leads to that. Then I do not understand why one cannot be linked to the other, because we are not dealing at all with the letter of the law of the Refugee Convention. We do not do all that and we all interpret it much more broadly. Now we have a proposal to reduce that sucking effect. Does Mr Geurts at least agree with me that, contrary to what he has just said, this is a step towards reducing the suction effect and thus, as stated in the coalition agreement, controlling migratory flows and achieving return?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u32	Mr Van Haga needs a lot of words for it, but the core of the legislation before us this evening is a ban on the priority of the licence holders. I really can't get it in my head, but perhaps Mr Van Haga can explain again in his own term, that a ban on the priority of the licence holders reduces the influx. We now have a problem that needs to be resolved. I do not see it, I must be honest, but perhaps you can explain it to me in your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u33	Mr Van Haga, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u34	Finally. I don't need a lot of words for it, you know. The suction effect is achieved, for example, by getting a free home, as a priority. This is achieved by allowing you to benefit from education, because you can burden our healthcare system. Those are all sucking effects. If you solve one of those things by not giving that priority, then you have less sucking effect and you have less migration? It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u35	But then the mission still stands, I say to Mr Van Haga. He simply denies that there is a mission and that there is an article 28 in the Housing Act 2014, in which mayor and aldermen still have an assignment. That's just totally denied, and I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u36	My question is quite in line with what Mr Geurts has just said: there is a legal task and we all have numerical realities. But it's not about exactly what the law is right now, is it? It's about changing the law, isn't it, so we can have a situation we want? Does Mr Geurts not agree that we simply should not want this whole situation, that there are tens of thousands of people in azc's now, who want to give his minister extra priority, so that tens of thousands of new people can get into those azc's? This, as Mr Van Haga said, creates an enormous drain on asylum migration, doesn't it? We shouldn't want that, should we? That only makes the problem worse, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u37	I really can't see that that has a significant suction effect. That is beyond the fact that last week's cabinet letter does not contain the word 'precedence' at all. I didn't read that in there. And the task for the municipalities then I'm gonna repeat it If Forum also does not want to see a ban on priority for status holders is not the solution, then I think we will be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u38	No, the solution is to give these people a plane ticket and get them back to the country they came from. Of course that's the solution, because we also have full azc's. But Mr Geurts understands that there are only more people coming by doing this. Of course they'll come here if they can get a free house. That's crazy, isn't it? Haven't you ever seen those pictures of those flyers being distributed by smugglers in those countries, with: you get a free house, you get this and that. Those are all things that have a huge sucking effect, aren't they? Surely you can't deny that's the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u39	In this speech by Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy, I find it very dangerous for him to say, in his words, that he wants to send licence holders with a plane ticket somewhere else. These people have been given access to the Netherlands and have the right to live here. I really think it is a very dangerous remark to say that people who, through the system, supported by a majority of the House of Representatives, have the opportunity to live here, with a plane ticket, have to go somewhere else. I think that is a very dangerous remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u40	Mr Jansen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u41	I think it is very dangerous to say that we only have to bring tens of thousands of people from all over the world here every year. That is what we have been doing for decades. Mr Geurts pretends this is some kind of natural phenomenon that we can't help. But it is his party and his cabinets that he supports, who put this as a policy: bringing tens of thousands of people here every year, plus regular immigration, with a total of about 100 000 per year. It's every year, structuralally, that people come here permanently. That is dangerous and I do not hear Mr Geurts about it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u42	I really distance myself from the words "it's policy." The CDA will be included. I do not see anywhere that it is a policy that we so many people at all want to 'bring in', to use Mr Jansen's words. I just don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u43	Thank you. You will continue your speech. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u44	I remember a motion. If I have to say it out of my head, it's been a year. Maybe it's been a year and a half. When it was voted on, I understand that this goes a step further than the residence permit, which is to give 10,000 naturalisations. Then that motion came through, so 10,000 passports for people who already had a permit. They were allowed to become Dutch. Because the CDA voted for it, that is what happened. How can you deny that this is part of your party's position, of your policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u45	Hundreds of motions go through every week. Perhaps Mr Jansen can give me exactly that motion in a moment, so I can take a good look at it. If those were kids who were supposed to be staying here, then I can really imagine that we did. But why don't you show me the motion, and I'll get into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u46	Thank you. I'd like to ask my colleagues a few questions. It is indeed a debate on Mr Kops's initiative law and it is not a broad asylum debate. So I think it would be very good to ask questions which directly affect Mr Kops' own-initiative law. I don't think we're gonna let him down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u47	Mr. Chairman. The PVV initiative proposal contains a legal ban on qualifying one specific group as an urgency category. In doing so, the legislative proposal runs counter to the objective of the Housing Act 2014 to provide vulnerable groups with protection in the housing market. It is not just that the CDA thinks so, or that Mr Geurts thinks so, but that is also very clearly stated in the opinion of the Council of State. The CDA considers licence holders to be a vulnerable group. They therefore deserve assistance in finding a home. In addition, the CDA believes that status holders should be part of Dutch society as soon as possible in order to promote integration and integration. Does the initiator share this view, I ask him through you, Mr President? Mr. Chairman. The bill also interferes with the municipal freedom to shape housing policy and to designate emergency categories. Research has shown that many municipalities have retained licence holders as an emergency category because of the national assignment. The CDA considers that municipalities themselves should retain the freedom to designate emergency categories as they see fit. You will notice my contribution and the questions I am asking that the CDA is not hot for the PVV legislative proposal. Together with the Scientific Institute for the CDA, we outlined a different route in our vision piece "Payable living for everyone." That is that the Empire provides a higher concession for the housing of status holders. This is then intended to solve existing bottlenecks in the local housing supply. In this way, among others, the young people and the seniors feel that in their own municipality there is also attention for them in finding a home. By stimulating housing, it should be possible in the long term for municipalities to remove the automatic urgency status for status holders. What does the initiator think of this route? Mr. Chairman. Social rental is developed and offered by both housing corporations and commercial parties. That's a good thing. There's a big need for cheap homes, and corporations can't build them alone. However, companies are bound by all kinds of obligations that other commercial parties do not have. For example, corporations have to house people with an urgent declaration of urgency or status holders. Does the initiator and the Minister agree with me that commercial parties should also be part of this obligation in the current situation? And does the initiator agree with me that municipalities should be allowed to create additional accommodation for licence holders, for example through flex housing? If he doesn't agree with me, why not? Finally, Mr President. I am concerned about the impact of the legislative proposal on the flow into the asylum chain if it is adopted. The bill hinders municipalities in fulfilling the mission of the housing of licence holders. Without support, the COA is expected to be overcrowded in the foreseeable future and further crisis response is needed. This means that temporary locations are used that are not actually intended for shelters, such as sports halls. Does the initiator share the CDA's view that this is an extremely undesirable scenario?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u48	I listened very carefully to Mr Geurts from the CDA. On the one hand, he says that the mission is still there; then you cannot simply abolish the urgency group. At the same time, Mr Geurts, if I understand correctly, says from that vision he has: should you not work with higher remuneration so that we can do more for those municipalities where the bottle is the biggest? He also says something about temporary housing. My question to Mr Geurts is as follows. You can quickly realize that temporary accommodation. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. Couldn't that be some kind of intermediate step, too? Then you could at least take out the waiting lists by building social housing. You could then use this temporary intermediate step for integration and integration, by giving priority to status holders in particular and letting them live there temporarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u49	Two points. I think every church should contribute its stone. We must therefore be careful not to point out a number of central municipalities where it is all going to happen. I believe that all the municipalities in the Netherlands should contribute to their mission and their stone. That's one. Two. What I think Mr De Groot of the VVD is asking me is whether we are going to organise temporary accommodation for the status holders only. Look, if you want them to be integrated into our society, it seems pretty good to have a mix in the neighborhoods. So I would not just like to limit it to flex housing. That can be an emergency solution, but if you're really talking about integration, I prefer to see them incorporated into society. It should not be a standalone: there are the status holders and there are the asylum seekers and there is another category.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u50	I think that is a good point from Mr Geurts. According to the VVD, it really shouldn't be locations where only status holders are housed. In fact, you can also use those locations very well for others, such as start-ups, students and other emergency seekers, who are now also waiting for a home and cannot get to it. The question I asked Mr Geurts was: could it be a two-stage rocket? Could it also be a location where you do not charge the waiting lists extra by giving priority to social housing that becomes available? I am thinking of very nice locations, also created by municipalities themselves where you need them, where you could work with some kind of two-stage rocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u51	It seems as if Mr De Groot can look into my head, because that is the next piece, the final part, of my contribution. We have tabled a motion for a resolution, Mr Kuik, but I am also under the heading of increasing the production of temporary dwellings such as those pre-fab houses and seeing if you can put them in certain places in the Netherlands, in order to alleviate the housing problems we face. If Mr De Groot wants to go there alone to use asylum seekers, I think that is too limited, but I understand from his words that that is not the case. I am therefore very interested in Mr De Groot's contribution on this point. Mr. Chairman. I have already referred to the question I would like to put to the Minister. In April, together with my CDA colleagues Kuik and Mulder, I tabled a motion to increase the maximum number of temporary residences. Can the Minister give an update on the implementation of this motion? Mr. Chairman. As I said before, this law is, in my view, symptom control. The problem is being moved, with all the consequences. I may still be convinced, but so far I intend to advise my group to vote against this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u52	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Then we'll go to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u53	Mr. Chairman. There must be an end to the priority given to status holders in the housing market here and now. Prioritising the housing of licence holders does not solve anything but disrupts our society and has an enormous astounding effect. The real solution for the crowded azc's and the housing shortage is to stop migration. It is now or never, otherwise we will live in an unrecognizable Netherlands in ten years' time. Then our cultural suicide is a fact. It is therefore a great compliment to Mr Kops for this compact and crystal-clear initiative legislative proposal. BVNL wholeheartedly supports the proposal. Congratulations also on his sensible defence against the criticism of the Council of State. The Council of State advises negatively, partly because of the freedom of municipalities to shape their housing policies, but I look forward to the Council of State's opinion on forced housing of asylum seekers with interest. After all, the cabinet is threatening to force municipalities to accept asylum seekers. By the way, every file that this minister picks up leads to a social nightmare. The plans to advance buildings are already ready; there must be no less than three Ter Apels in the Netherlands. Again, Mr President, I get the feeling that we are fighting the beers here in Parliament. This is true of the housing shortage, as is the continuing and growing flow of migrants, and this is true of the combination of these two crises: the housing of migrants. We already know that this bill, unfortunately for Mr Kops, is a lost battle, at least here in this Parliament. The coalition is going to vote against because this clear plan runs counter to the plans to force municipalities to house regular asylum seekers. But is it also at odds with the coalition agreement? That's what I'm wondering. It states that the coalition wants to meet the conditions of the Refugee Convention in order to control migration flows and achieve return. I just said that in an interruption. That's not happening right now. How is it that the VVD has been supplying asylum administrators for years, and that the number of migrants has exploded? For the VVD, limiting migration was a spearhead in the elections. The election programme states that the VVD "wants to control migration flows," page 46, "wants to contain migration flows," page 51, "wants to control migration flows," page 51, and "wants to prevent migration flows," page 52. As a blow to the flames, page 85 literally says: "There will be a ban for municipalities to give priority to licensing holders in the allocation of social housing." This was not included in the coalition agreement. We're gonna see how the VVD Group spins this and how the party's gonna vote next week. Then we can see if there was a voter deception. However, I must say that Mr Peter de Groot's tweet is encouraging. He has said that he is going to support this law, and I am very happy about that. For the stage they are against migration, but meanwhile they try to keep migration to the Netherlands as attractive as possible, despite the urgency of the housing market. GroenLinks and the Labour Party are also going to vote against, because they are simply for more migrants. At least they're honest about it. What the SP does is the question. What importance prevails? Proletarians of all countries united with a benefit, free care, free education and a free social home in the Netherlands, or own workers first? It is a pity that the SP is not here, but perhaps the group can check it out. The people who depend on social housing are mostly the victims. The migration file tears up the SP, but the outcome will make no difference in the debate, as will the opinion of the vast majority of hardworking Dutch. Mr. Chairman. This dossier, the housing of migrants, once again proves that there is a huge gap between the people in charge and the Dutch electorate. I would like to see a referendum on this, but of course the left-wing leaders do not dare to do so. A study carried out by the University of Groningen in 2019 shows that almost two thirds of the Dutch population regards asylum seekers as a threat to the housing of established Dutch people. More migrants mean more housing shortage. Priority for status holders means longer waiting times for urgent home seekers, for starters. There's no room for that in our tight housing market. Everyone knows that from their own experience, either because they have been waiting for a house for ten years or more, or because they know someone who can't get a house. I am particularly concerned about young people who want to start a family but have to postpone it because they have to stay at home with their parents. No house disturbs not only individual lives, but also society as a whole. I've re-examined the UN Refugee Convention. I'm going to go into that a little more deeply, because it's always being screened. My belief is that if it were respected, this initiative law would not be necessary and there would be no regular refugee crisis at all. According to the Convention, a rightful refugee has the right to primary education for his children, the right to exercise a profession, the right to freedom of movement, the right to social security and, indeed, the right to treat him as favourably as possible in the provision of housing. However, that does not have to be as extreme as it is now being done. It doesn't have to be a priority at all. The Refugee Convention is always explained to the benefit of the refugee, but it is hardly used to refuse or send refugees back. You can, with the treaty in hand. So these articles are a dead letter. Everyone knows about Article 33 (1): the ban on returning if that is dangerous for the refugee. Article 33 (2) is less known, namely that this right will expire altogether if the refugee has committed a serious crime. Are refugees who have committed a serious crime being deported by default? Is this article being complied with? Of course not! Even if they were at risk in the country of origin, according to the Treaty, that is no reason not to send them back. Article 32 (1) states that the Convention provides for the possibility of expelling refugees who disturb public order. What if we start by deporting the asylum seekers who disrupt entire bus lines, shopping streets and village centers with their misconduct? Then the azc's weren't so full. Then the housing problems were much smaller. Article 1F states that the provisions of this Convention shall not apply to any person who has serious reasons to believe that he has committed war crimes or other serious crimes. The Council of State stated in 2020 in an enlightened moment that if such a person does not pose an acute threat to society, that person should remain ordinary. But why are we handing these kinds of weapons out of our hands anyway? Finally, the definition of who is seen as a refugee. There must be genuine fear of persecution for race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political belief. This is not the case for most of the refugees at all. It's not being checked either. That is why it is crooked to make all the rules of priority applicable to them. It is up to the Dutch government, our power, to determine whether someone is indeed a refugee. That's where things go wrong all the time. Once you're inside, you'll never leave. Are you done? Then you get a yoga course in Amsterdam. There is even a website for municipal grants for undocumented people. If the Treaty were to be better respected in the Netherlands, we would have a much less attractive effect and would be far less attractive to asylum seekers. Then there would be no overcrowded azc's. That would be in line with the coalition agreement to respect the terms of the treaty to effectively contain migratory flows. This initiative law would not really be necessary. Anyway, the Refugee Convention is not being respected. That is why it would be better to cancel the Refugee Convention altogether. Mr. Chairman. Of course, BVNL will vote for this bill. In case Mr Kops's bill is rejected, I will table motions in the second term to at least comply with the articles of the UN Refugee Convention which can limit migratory flows. In addition, BVNL, like our great example Margaret Thatcher, thinks that it is perhaps a bit of a side issue that every Dutchman should actually be able to own a buying house. Maybe we should table a motion on that, too. People have to deal with their homes differently. Their behavior will be different. People are gonna buy paint at the Gamma. People don't vote left anymore, they vote right, because they need the mortgage interest deduction. I'm sticking to my story. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Netherlands must guard its own sovereignty. As far as BVNL is concerned, the Netherlands should simply withdraw from the 1951 UN Refugee Convention. Times have changed and this treaty is now leading to chaos. By the way, you can withdraw with a very simple letter. We cannot do that, but the cabinet will have to do that. So I also really want to have a fundamental debate on the UN Refugee Convention, how it is being respected, whether we should amend it or even get out of it. Perhaps it would be a good idea to ask for a debate on this next week. We'll do it again next time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u54	Thank you. Then we go to Mr. Goldsword, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a deficit of more than 300,000 homes, it was mentioned here earlier. Dutch people are on the waiting list for a social rental house for many years. In municipalities like Landsmeer, where you are on a waiting list for an average of 22 years, you just don't go from your parental home into the nursing home. In many municipalities young people only have the choice of two evils: until the 35th between your parents stay on the couch, making it impossible to start an adult life, or leave the village where families have sometimes been rooted for generations. The housing shortage is so much more than a stone problem. The housing shortage is mainly a social tragedy and an attack on social cohesion within communities. However, those who do not have to be on the waiting list for years are status holders. Where something basic as a home for a full Dutch generation has become a luxury product, at the same time everything is done to make homes free for people outside. It is a process which is not only unethical, but which is also simply unsustainable because of the permanent towering asylum influx. Last year, almost 35,000 asylum seekers came to the Netherlands. Except for the "Wir purchase tie" year 2015, this is the highest number in about ten years. The current year seems to well exceed last year's asylum crisis. The inflow so far is almost twice as high as in the same period in 2021. The cabinet, on the other hand, does nothing about inflow restrictions. Then mop with the tap open. We all know that once here, never comes back. More and more asylum seekers also mean more and more status holders. And more and more status holders means increasing pressure on the social housing stock. When it comes to housing status holders, nothing seems too crazy for this cabinet. Minister De Jonge wants municipalities to give an even greater share of the released social housing stock to status holders. The COA has large-scale status holders in hotels. The number of status holders required to house municipalities in the cabinet is increasing. Where the sons and daughters of the average Dutchman have to wait for years for their own home, the cabinet wants that status holders to have a home within fourteen weeks. We believe that this is unfair and simply not to be explained. The initiative proposal we are discussing today removes some of this injustice. My group therefore very much appreciates the initiative taken by Mr Kops. My group congratulates him on his good work. JA21 is against priority for status holders in the housing market. This bill prevents municipalities from giving priority to status holders. The bill can therefore count on our warm support. However, the urgency regime for status holders, which maintains almost all municipalities, is only one part of the problem, and not the core. With the Dutch Parliamentary elections of 2017 approaching, the VVD, as often happens, wanted to have an immigration critical appearance. Minister Blok therefore abolished the mandatory urgency for status holders and gave municipalities, at least on paper, the freedom to abolish this priority regime. We now know that virtually none of the municipalities have done this, for example because there is a left-wing city government, but also because the targets with which the cabinet forces municipalities to give social housing to status holders simply remain in place. Urgency or not, the number of status holders that a municipality must house and the period in which this must take place do not change a millimetre. Every six months, municipalities are told by an order from the Ministry of Justice and Security how many status holders they have to house. If they do not do so or do not do so in time, they will get the province on their necks with an intervention ladder, which results in the de facto under curate of the municipality. Mr President, I will conclude. JA21 is clear: the priority arrangement for status holders should be removed. At the same time, however, it is only a symptom of the real problem: the unbridled influx of asylum, the bankrupt Dutch asylum policy and the targets by which the cabinet throws the consequences over the fence to the municipalities. We therefore support Mr Kops's initiative and will continue to work every day in the coming years for a complete review of the Dutch asylum policy, a policy aimed at reception in the region rather than in the Netherlands, which will make Dutch homes available again for whom they are intended, for our own new generations. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u56	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u57	I am very pleased with the words of Mr Goldsaber. Of course, I am also very pleased that he supports the proposal. I am also pleased with his concluding words, namely that the homes must be made available to the next generations of Dutch people. But in an earlier debate on the priority for status holders, his party leader, Mr Eerdmans, said that status holders have the same right to a social rental home as the Dutch. Doesn't he agree with his party leader?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u58	That's an interesting question. I don't know exactly what the thoughts of Eerdmans were at the time. I know that, as a group, we believe that we should close the front door and, above all, focus on it. We're not in the cabinet. In my view, our parties have best agreements on immigration policy in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u59	Yeah, absolutely. But does Mr Goudswaard agree with us, with the Forum for Democracy, that Dutch people are more entitled to a home than status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u60	I find that a difficult question to answer. I think that we should, above all, look at how we can implement a responsible asylum policy. Right now, there's just too many people coming in, who I think are poorly integrated. We need to work on that in particular. If we do that, so if we arrange for shelter to be provided in the region, as England is currently doing in Africa, with Rwanda, then I think we are going to see a lot of opportunities there. Then we will no longer have to have the discussion about safe landlords that we can't get rid of, about status holders, about licence holders and how to deal with them. I think we should work towards that. I think our parties can find each other in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u61	Thank you, Mr. Gold Sword. Then we go to Mr Peter de Groot, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u62	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal of member Kops of the PVV Group that status holders should no longer be given priority over others who are waiting for a social housing. As usual, I would like to begin by thanking the initiator for the work he has done. In 2017, in this Chamber, with the VVD, the mandatory primacy regime was already deleted. And the VVD still thinks that's a good plan. That is why I am shocked at how many municipalities, more than half of them in the Netherlands, still give priority to status holders. Perhaps that is because of the obligation of Mr Geurts of the CDA to give these people a house, the so-called mission. Therefore, a question similar to the one submitted by the applicant. You come with a ban on priority, but I do not see any solutions for housing status holders. What is Mr Kops' proposal for housing these people? As far as the VVD is concerned, at least we need to build more houses and create more temporary homes to ensure that the people who have been waiting for a social housing for years are the first to have a home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u63	I have a question for Mr De Groot on his last point. Do I understand that the VVD supports the bill anyway? Or does Mr De Groot put that last as a condition to support the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u64	I think that is a good question from Mr De Graaf. I just indicated that we already took the first steps in 2017 and that we still think it is a good idea. Only, we are also a party that wants to come up with solutions if, for example, we take the step to support this bill. We now see that housing status holders is very difficult. So we are looking for a solution. I'll get back to that later, further on in my contribution. We are looking for solutions to allow status holders who are here to be 100, that can be 10,000, but there can also be 24,500 status holders, like last year. Because those numbers can be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u65	It's nice that the VVD is looking for support. I would remind you that Mr Van Haga mentioned four pages of the VVD's election programme. I'm going to go to the hardest statement the VVD has made, on page 85 of its own election program. That statement is exactly the same as the law that Mr Kops submits, i.e. a ban on prioritising status holders by municipalities in the allocation of social housing. That support based on the electoral programme is already there, because the VVD has been the largest party in the world. It is the largest party in the cabinet. So I would say: stop seeking support and just support this law, because for that the VVD has received support. I like to hear a very loud and firm "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u66	I am glad that Mr De Graaf of the PVV knows the VVD election programme well, but he forgets to mention one piece that is in the same vein and that is about 'no priority for social housing'. It also says that we want locations for the integration of status holders. So it's part of each other. That is exactly why I am in the Lower House today, in addition to the PVV's bill, also looking at the solutions that we can create for housing status holders. I shall say a little more about this in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u67	Mr De Graaf, concluding. Oh, you're gonna have to wait. Then Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u68	If we still need to discuss the VVD's election programme, we'd better get on with it right away. I mentioned all those different things in my contribution. The VVD is very firm in the election programme: we want to contain, contain, control and prevent entire migratory flows. I find it a little strange, then, that Mr De Groot says to Mr Kops that there are actually no solutions. I wonder: what are the solutions of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u69	That is what I think Mr De Groot wanted to do now, so perhaps it would be a good idea for Mr De Groot to speak on his solutions. You'll have the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u70	So we're getting the solutions now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u71	That was the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u72	I'm anxious to wait. I'll wait a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u73	We are going to listen to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u74	Mr. Chairman. I just mentioned the second point: the creation of temporary homes. We have been working on that second point as a VVD for years. We want to do the right thing to house status holders in temporary accommodation before they get access to regular homes. Last November's Koerhuis amendment brought forward a total of EUR 105 million for this year in order to speed up the realisation of temporary housing for this group. This amendment was adopted by 113 votes to 37 in the Chamber. In addition, it was agreed in the coalition agreement that the Empire would take more responsibility for housing status holders by making regional agreements on temporary housing. I have questions for the Minister. What about the earlier pilots with temporary accommodation? When can we expect the results? What does this mean for the policy's follow-up? What about the intention to take more direction in creating more temporary housing? The VVD wants more speed in realizing temporary homes, because temporary homes are much faster and have to deal with much shorter procedures. There is stock at the yard at producers, and initiators are already signed in by tens of thousands at locations in municipalities. Ready. So where are they? The question is... What needs to be done if these sites are to be thrown out of the ground like mushrooms? Only then will we get away faster from insufficient temporary homes, not only for status holders but also for starters, singles, emergency seekers and other waiting people. Then why are these temporary homes so successful as a solution? In practice, it appears that for municipalities engaged in the realization of temporary housing for status holders, "Alkmaar' and "Castricum' are as examples of "society' no longer lagging behind in the assignment. That is why the question to the initiator: is he prepared to adapt his proposal in such a way that all the emergency groups, such as start-ups, emergency seekers, singles and students, but also status holders, continue to be eligible for temporary housing as a matter of urgency? My question to the Court is: how do other parties view this proposal? To tackle the queues, not only in the rental market but also for sale, we have to build. These include temporary homes and transformations as a large but also faster part of the solution. We all know someone in our neighborhood waiting for a house. That's not so bad with a total of 300,000 house seekers. We must work hard for these groups: start-ups, singles, emergency seekers and people with a social and medical urgency. Due to the fact that the flow is locked, there are hardly any social rentals. This cabinet therefore needs to work hard to build both social rental and middle rental as well as affordable residential properties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u75	Are you almost at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u76	I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u77	Yes, please complete. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u78	In conclusion, Mr. Chairman. It should be clear to the author of this law: the VVD does not want priority for status holders either. People who have been on the waiting list for years should be the first to get a home, but this includes a practical solution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u79	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mr Van Haga first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u80	I was really anxiously waiting for the VVD to contain, contain, control and prevent migratory flows. But what's the solution? We're going to build a lot of temporary homes! Surely that can't be a solution to curb migratory flows? That's facilitating. That's just putting containers down real fast, tiny houses, splitting apartments, I don't know what all that is. Turn your barn into a home. I don't know, just come up with a lot of temporary homes. But that is not what the electoral programme says about controlling, restraining, controlling and preventing migration flows. So again, what is the solution of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u81	I think Mr Van Haga is really failing a number of beautiful flex builders. Those aren't just dumpsters you put on the corner of the street. Those are actually full-fledged homes, where you can live for five to ten years now. Especially that is what we look at as a VVD as an intermediate solution to the status holders that are here... The debate here tonight is about status holders. It is not about asylum seekers, it is about people who have now been granted status. And I said it before: whether there are 100 or there are 5,000, in the end we are dealing with the problem of whether these people are given priority in a social housing or not. The VVD goes for pragmatic solutions and wants these flex locations. These are beautiful locations, where starters can live or for example students, or elderly people or other emergency seekers who really need to have a home quickly. Also because we can realize it so quickly, we can really take steps to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u82	I do not yet hear the beginning of an answer to contain, contain, control and prevent migratory flows. I can imagine that very good flex houses can be built. We might be able to use that one again later. All for glory and glory, and I'm sure that will be a temporary solution. But temporary is never temporary in this story and for ten years the VVD has been responsible for 100,000 extra people a year. So we're gonna build 100,000 flex houses a year to fix this? And do you say to Mr Kops: I do not see a solution or I do not hear a solution? While this is one of the solutions!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u83	Yes, it is. I also said that this is part of the solution. You are now sketching an image as if we had to house 100,000 people. The VVD just doesn't agree. Last year it was 24,000. My party also believes that we should definitely control and contain migratory flows. We have to take a good look at that, too, but when those people are here and they've got a status, we have to house them. And then it's about how much stock we can create in that temporary solution. As far as the VVD is concerned, this temporary solution can be quickly realised. The Minister who is here tonight has an enormous number of housing plans and I would like to say that the building plan capacity is ready. Part of that building plan capacity takes a very long time, seven to ten years before it can finally be built. Those locations might be used for something temporary. And then we'll build it permanently. The VVD therefore sees a lot of opportunities to realize good, temporary homes for more target groups than just those status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u84	Mr Van Haga, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u85	Finally. That we can build for migrants, I understand. But I'm going to ask the question one last time and I'm just hoping for a real answer. In the first quarter, I believe, 50,000 migrants were added. There were a lot of them, but of course there were also Ukrainians. How will the VVD implement the containment, containment, management and prevention of migration flows?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u86	I just said something about that. We are, of course, bound by asylum agreements within the European directives that exist. We are also in favour of limiting inflow. We are also looking at a return offensive. So it's really not the VVD's intention to say, "Come over here." That's bullshit. Only that is about asylum seekers, while we are debating status holders here tonight. Then we're a step further. The VVD just wants to come up with solutions to really solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u87	Very slowly, Mr De Groot's words come through a little clarity. That clarity has five letters: support. Support for the bill. The VVD actually wants to link the bill to those temporary integration locations, I understand in the meantime. That is indeed in the electoral programme. In the meantime, however, the Netherlands as a whole is one large permanent integration site. All twelve provinces are a permanent integration site, because everywhere there are azc's, everywhere there are problem areas where these people end up. So these temporary locations don't even have to be there anymore. They're already there and they're permanent. So that part's solved. If the VVD doesn't see that and says here: okay, we are the biggest party; in the cabinet we also play the buttons. Then I say to Mr De Groot: realize your own part in the cabinet and support our part in the form of Mr Kops' proposal. Are we gonna get out of this together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u88	Almost, because I do not agree with you that azc's very large integration sites are. They're not. I also put that question to Mr Geurts of the CDA. Status holders, together with other emergency groups, must then, of course, be asked whether we can support this bill or not, be allowed within the municipality that has made the assessment of the location where these temporary housing is being built and the emergency groups that are being placed there. This is a crucial element to achieve this together and to ensure good integration in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u89	That is exactly what the VVD can arrange in the cabinet itself. That's how simple reality is. Mr Kops of the PVV has a very simple but effective bill. Then Mr De Groot can make sure that he arranges the part he would like to see attached to it in the cabinet? Okay, that's not our solution, but we're not turning those buttons and Mr. De Groot is using the VVD. Then we're out, right? I see a great deal of support for Mr Kops's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u90	Finally. The support for the idea of the legislative proposal is there at the VVD, only if I make it very concrete then Mr Kops said in reply to questions during the previous consultation on this law that this bill also applies to temporary locations. At the time when we are creating temporary locations with each other which aim to promote integration, we must of course be able to ensure that also waiting starters are sure to do so. I have already mentioned this very often this evening, and other waiting emergency seekers and status holders can go there. At the moment when these are realized by municipalities, we must be able to house these people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u91	Mr De Graaf, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u92	Yeah, then I have to conclude that the VVD's election program is going to be tough. It's the same reflex again. Then one question is asked in a written round that is not answered as it pleases, while the VVD itself is at the point of resolving other things, which are not our solution, and they do not really want to support the bill but say before the stage that they want it. I really don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u93	Then we go to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u94	First of all, a very simple question: does the VVD support this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u95	I just answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u96	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u97	I'm just gonna give the same answer. The VVD was in favour of removing that urgency in 2017. We were then, and we still are now. We are sympathetic to Mr Kops' proposal. We also believe that it should not be the case in principle, but we need to find a solution to the problem we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u98	I would ask you not to repeat too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u99	Yeah, so here's the thing: not really an answer, a kind of "maybe yes, but probably not." Of course, we know the VVD as a party that has been in the government for the past 12 years. I just added it quickly: about 200,000 asylum seekers arrived at that time. You say that we must have solutions to this. You have had 12 years to find solutions, but at that time it has only got worse. Tens of thousands of people enter and join each year. This bill is a start for such a solution, so can you just support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u100	We have also recognised that there should be social housing in the housing market, because that is what we are talking about tonight. We also recognise that there are too few of them. At the same time, we are also looking at all those people who are waiting and who cannot start with the first step in their lives: having their own home. Those are things we recognize. 250,000 social rental homes and 300,000 cheap homes to get the flow going in the housing market: I think that these are the concrete solutions that we are working hard to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u101	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u102	There were several reminders of the VVD's election program. In election time, the VVD is being extremely tough about being against immigration, but at the very least, in 12 years, 200,000 asylum seekers alone, and we are not even talking about regular migration. You can do something about that. You can just fix this. There are very concrete solutions to this. That really isn't just flowing through for social housing, because that means that more people are going to join.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u103	I'm really throwing that away, because in the eyes of the VVD it's not like it has a sucking effect if we just create the right conditions with each other. As far as the VVD is concerned, the people who come here really need help. We also look closely at which people need help. They'll get a status. That's what this bill is about tonight. How do we deal with these people's housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u104	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Bishop of the SGP. No, we're doing interrupts in threes and it's becoming a bit of an asylum debate. Once again, it is about Mr Kops' own-initiative law. We are now going to Mr Bishop of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u105	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to endorse the words of my fellow Members in the direction of Mr Kops. Indeed, it is always nice, as you also said, to have an initiative proposal drawn up, drafted and adopted. That also affects the core of our task as a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. This touches on a very important part: housing. The problem has been outlined in detail. If we look at this compact law, the SGP can go a long way with the purpose of this law. Starters, tenants and many others sometimes have to wait for years for social housing. The average waiting period is seven years, with outliers of ten or fifteen years. They're not exceptional at all anymore. Indeed, if in such a situation a rental house in the street is released, it is at least remarkable that a starter who already has a very long waiting time behind him sees a newly-acquired licence holder move into the house. You can imagine anything. The emotion that's in there, we can imagine very well. This bill has the intention to do something about it. We can recognize ourselves as a SGP in that. Every seeker must have a fair, equal chance on the housing market. But the question is whether this initiative legislative proposal achieves this objective. Mr President, I agree with you that this is not an asylum debate, but of course you cannot ignore it. I should also mention this point. The influx of asylum seekers and the licence holders derived from them is high. In order to alleviate the pressure on the housing market, the asylum flow must therefore also be drastically reduced. You can't separate that from the problem of housing allocation. It is indeed for an asylum debate, but I want to have it appointed: because of the high influx, municipalities are faced with the task of housing licence holders. That is the reality. We fear that this law will create serious problems for the congregations. This brings me to the first question, which has already been raised by my fellow Members, whether or not by way of interruption. Municipalities must continue to fulfil the task of housing licence holders, but we are depriving them of a means of achieving that. In replying to written questions, the initiator actually ignores this problem. That is why two questions. Why is this bill maintaining this task for municipalities? No, let me rephrase. Why is this initiative proposal not at the same time focusing on the adaptation of this task? I would also like a response from the initiator to the question of how this tension could then be resolved. Mr. Chairman. The SGP considers it very important that municipalities have the freedom to make their own decisions locally, especially on housing. However, this proposal restricts the scope for municipalities to designate status holders as an urgent category or not. Why does the initiator choose to restrict the policy freedom of municipalities in favour of space for the Empire? Because there is no vacuum, but the Empire therefore has greater competence in municipal housing. Why didn't the initiator choose instruments that solve both the problem and leave the municipalities free? Mr. Chairman. The pressure on the housing market is high. By giving priority to licence holders and by cutting back on the housing market, others who have no priority, such as start-ups, are put at a disadvantage. This is indeed undesirable according to the SGP, as according to the initiator. I think we'll meet there. However, the question is whether the route chosen by the initiator ultimately leads to the desired goal. As far as the SGP is concerned, we are much more committed to more housing. I agree with the suggestions made in interruptions and last but not least by Mr De Groot: you could choose a bridge form by providing temporary housing, independent living quarters, flex homes. My question to the initiator, building on the suggestions made, is: why hasn't this solution been chosen? I have a few more questions for the Minister. In the recent letter of Parliament, I read that the Minister wants to speed up housing for licence holders, including by encouraging flex housing. Is the Minister also prepared to encourage municipalities to set up independent homes for licence holders and add this as an additional choice to the municipal palette in order to fulfil the mission? Does the Minister share the expectation that this will reduce the displacement of other house seekers? Mr. Chairman. Following the much discussed legal amendment of 2017, municipalities are no longer obliged to designate licence holders as an emergency category. Instead, they must take other measures to accommodate them. That target was good back then. The SGP supported that for that reason. But it hardly seems to work in practice. We have to face that in all honesty. There are a lot of municipalities that still maintain that category as an urgency category. I have a few questions for the Minister. Can the Minister explain why so many municipalities choose to continue to label licence holders as an emergency category? Does this not show that municipalities cannot do otherwise and that the Empire is not sufficiently committed to good housing for status holders and to sufficient support for municipalities? In short, the municipalities have actually been saddled with unrealistic objectives. I'd like a reflection from the Minister on that. What means and possibilities does the Minister see to allow municipalities to make use of the possibility to stop labeling status holders as a category of urgency? What alternatives does the Minister see for this? Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the response of both the initiator and the minister. I wish them a wonderful preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u106	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then we go to Mrs. Sylvana Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating a proposal based on false contradictions, a proposal that goes along with the xenophobic rhetoric that we unfortunately have to hear so often in this Chamber. This proposal wrongly addresses the huge problem of housing shortage among licence holders. We must not leave that unnamed. We shouldn't think that's normal. The unprecedented housing crisis in which we now find ourselves is the result of chosen policies. The red carpet was rolled out for foreign investors. Parasitic pawnshops aren't being put in the way. Social housing is being demolished massively and replaced by housing in the middle segment and the high segment. Housing corporations are tied around the neck in the form of the landlord's tax. These are examples after examples of how not the licence holders, the status holders, but the government made the housing a painful death. Suggesting that any other group would be the cause of this is nothing more than a lie from the xenophobic abdomen. The fundamental problem is that the ruling parties make policy choices that place the interests of the free market above the right to live. They've been doing that for years. A ban on giving priority to licence holders puts municipalities in a gap. That rhetoric is not the only thing that is wrong with this proposal. The Council of State is also critical. It concludes that the proposal runs counter to the purpose of the Housing Act. The aim of this law is, among other things, to protect vulnerable groups in the housing market. In doing so, the law allows municipalities to shape housing policies themselves. I have to smile when I hear parties say here: yes, they will soon find that people who have nothing at all and have had to leave that house and fireplace should be given priority. A ban on giving priority to licence holders puts municipalities in a split, as has been said. They must fulfil the task of housing permit holders. It also exacerbates the already very difficult flow into the asylum chain and creates additional pressure on reception capacity. Last but not least, such a ban is a direct violation of the rights of licence holders. That alone makes it totally unacceptable. The proposal also completely ignores the precarious situation of these people and completely destroys their experiences. Just as the situation of people with, for example, medical, social or financial urgency is different from that of regular house seekers, the basic situation of licence holders is not the same either. The poor conditions in the temporary shelters, the traumas of the flight history and/or migration history, the right to protection, a safe and decent existence and the building of a new life make the situation of licence holders substantially different from that of the regular home seeker. It also pretends that licence holders would not be on a waiting list and that they can all miraculously flow directly, hup, to suitable homes. That's just not true. There are currently around 11,000 people staying in a shelter, awaiting a home. As has already been mentioned, the situation there is generally inhumane. People sleep on chairs, on the floor or all in one large open space. Imagine us spending 150 Members of Parliament here with each other day in, day out and night after night. I'm just saying. As far as BE1 is concerned, therefore, this proposal is nothing more than a diversion in order to avoid talking about the real causes of the housing shortage. The screaming shortage of affordable housing is the result of poor policy. If this Chamber takes its controlling task seriously, we simply cannot agree to it. It's purely disposable politics. It is unworthy of this Parliament. At least I hope so. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u108	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u109	Thank you. I would also like to congratulate Mr Kops on bringing this bill into the Chamber. Mr President, citizens at home and in the gallery. Article 1 of the Constitution states that "Everything located in the Netherlands shall be treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be permitted." Many citizens in the Netherlands therefore do not understand at all that status holders take precedence over a home. After all, there is no equal treatment if you have to live in a car at the same time or in a homeless shelter when you no longer have a living space. How is it for citizens to understand that sometimes they are on a waiting list for years, perhaps up to 15 years, waiting for them to come and see people come into the Netherlands who, after going through the asylum procedure and receiving their residence permit, yes, that can indeed take a few years to get a place? Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating Mr Kops' bill to amend the Housing Act. Before 1 July 2017, status holders were automatically designated as an emergency category in the Act and thus automatically given priority. This has now changed, so it is now up to the municipalities to decide whether status holders are an emergency category or not. Many municipalities still automatically consider this group urgent. For example, in Overijssel, 20 of the 25 municipalities give status holders absolute priority over a house. Municipalities that do not give status holders priority over a house have often made agreements with the housing corporations. As a result, status holders are given priority in practice, recently research by RTV Oost showed. In 2021, Overijssel municipalities had to house more than 1,600 status holders. That's twice as much as in 2020. This year there will probably be more because of the Afghan and Ukrainian refugees who are still on top of the regular flow of refugees. This creates, understandably, frustrations in society. Mr. Chairman. There's been a housing crisis. That crisis isn't there because we're in a nitrogen mess right now. This crisis is because the previous governments built too few homes, with only 45,000 homes in 2014 as a low point. Now it is necessary to build and then it is impossible, because the Netherlands has wriggled itself in that nitrogen mess and is not able to wring itself out of that mess. Meanwhile, demand for homes has been increasing explosively for years, partly because of the huge influx of asylum seekers and refugees, including many from Ukraine at the moment. Young starters now also need homes. Students, too. And yes, status holders also need homes. Providing accommodation for everyone in the Netherlands is a duty of our government. So also for the citizens who have been waiting for years for a house and also for the people who have been granted a residence permit here. What is urgency, I ask the Minister. Can he give a definition in the light of housing for people who need a home? Is urgency, for example, someone who has to sleep in his car because he no longer has a home, for whatever reason? Or is urgency someone who needs a home because he is in an asylum-seekers' centre? What is the weighting of urgency? Last week, Minister De Jonge gave the municipalities the advice that status holders should be given priority in order to eliminate the backlogs. This is not the right way for us, because in this way Dutch people are disadvantaged because they are not status holders. This is not in line with Article 1 of the Constitution. Moreover, this is divisive and leads to mutual distrust. No one in this country gets any better. Not the Dutch citizens, not the newcomers. Mr. Chairman. The support for the reception of refugees is at risk. That is a pity, because the Netherlands is originally a merciful country that likes to help the less fortunate. We can only achieve a supporting surface if we can offer everyone in our country a home: starter, senior, student or, what this is about, status holder. All these groups are suffering from too few houses. The housing market is completely closed. We must 'build, build, build', as Mr Koerhuis can so iconically bring it. As long as this cabinet continues the nitrogen debris created by itself, it creates a situation in which Dutch people and status holders have to compete for housing. Mr. Chairman. BBB supports Mr Kops' bill. It creates a level playing field and ensures that both the Dutch and the status holders are judged equally on their urgency. It must never be the case that vulnerable groups in our society must once again fight for a home. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to point 9 of our BoerBurgerBouwen plan: providing, as a reward and increase of support, as a national government for every azc-place and status holder in a municipality also an equal amount for the realisation of housing for local citizens. I'd like to have the MP hand over our entire BoerBurgerBouwen plan to the minister so he can look into it. It's got to appeal to him. After all, it's a triple-B plan: FarmerCitizenBuilding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u110	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u111	Mr. Chairman. We need to get the pressure off the kettle. It has to be now. We must not sit still and watch people not get a place to live. We should not let vulnerable Dutch people compete with vulnerable status holders in a kind of hungry games of the Dutch housing market. That is why the BBB strongly supports this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u112	Thank you. There are a few questions. First of all, Mrs Podt of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u113	I very much agree with Mrs Van der Plas, who makes so many good underlinings of people who are looking for a home and who, above all, do not want to turn people against each other. That's very nice. What I find difficult about her argument is that she is talking about the need to do this in order to create equal treatment and to ensure that we do not discriminate. That came back in her lines. In its response to this proposal, the Council of State stated that there is no discrimination and equal treatment at all in this proposal because the problem is that discrimination only occurs when there are equal cases. You have to treat equal cases equally. As Mr Bij1 has just pointed out, there are no similar cases, especially when it comes to people who have not been on a waiting list for years. They have been in an asylum-seekers' centre for a long time, but they have not yet been allowed to register. They are lagging behind in this respect. So let's use the right terms with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u114	With regard to the question of whether there is actually discrimination, it is a pity that we do not have a constitutional court in the Netherlands. If you have that, you can at least check laws against the Constitution. We can't. But we do have to recognise, I think that we should listen to that sound, and that there is a lot of incomprehension among people in the Netherlands who time and time again in pictures, in newspapers and in the media see and read that homes are going to status holders. That while they say, "My 30, 35-year-old son still lives at home; he cannot establish a family." I have spoken with a woman who is literally living in her car right now because she cannot get a home, or with people who are living with their little children in a homeless shelter because of circumstances and cannot get a home in the Netherlands. Then we can have a very technical discussion here about whether it is actually discrimination, yes or no, but the feelings in society are full of incomprehension. Perhaps that is also due to the fact that we do not seem to be able to explain exactly why this is the case. That is also my plea, and that is what I have also tried to explain in my speech: we have to look closely at it. That's actually the whole problem. This brings you back to confidence in politics; indeed, in all debates it comes back again. But that is also why, at least in part, confidence in politics is low. People say: yes, everything is done for those groups, but nothing is done for me. We are obviously not able to explain the story properly and to bring it well to the stage, to include people in it. That is why I also raised the issue of support. That piece about support, over and over again, is why I specifically included it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u115	I actually agree with Mrs van der Plas on a great many points. The moment we talk about making people have to get a home and fighting homelessness, you will always find me by your side. But when we say that we want people to understand us and that people are not being turned against each other, we must stay away from terms such as "discrimination" and "protecting people." That will happen with this proposal, and I find it difficult to do so. I think Mrs van der Plas is right: we should not talk in abstract terms and we should solve people's problems. But we also need to ensure that we get people along and propose like this does not help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u116	You're not talking to the person who filed the bill right now. I support it; I have already said that. But I think Mrs Podt is actually talking to Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u117	Then we go quickly to Mr De Groot of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u118	Mrs van der Plas, I think that many of the examples you give are very recognizable, also for the VVD. By the way, I cannot say 'build, build, build' as well as my colleague Mr Koerhuis. That's why I say it less often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u119	You're saying fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u120	I agree with him that we have to build. At that point the stories you have just given here and those of the VVD are quite close together. Only, of course, the VVD has said, and I have also said in my contribution that we also need more solutions. That's because of the 300,000 people we have to house, including those status holders. We also need to do more to really solve that problem. So I'm curious how you look at the suggestion to create more flex locations, more temporary living space.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u121	We've laid down a BoerCitizenBouwen plan. To suggest to create more flex locations, more temporary living space, I also look positive. We have a lot of proposals in our plan, building more heights, for example, and looking at locations where it might be possible to build. It is very unpleasant for a number of parties, but we would like the failed tundra of the Oostvaardersplassen to be investigated as a housing location. I'm not talking about the wet part, where things are going well, but there's a place in the Oostvaardersplassen where just billions are being put in and the animals are still starving. Why wouldn't we be able to look at that? So we have a lot of plans. Anything that can get the housing started is very welcome to me. But we are also dealing with a huge nitrogen debris, a situation in which the Netherlands has brought itself into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u122	Glad to hear it. I'm sure I'm going to go over that plan carefully. But just going through these flex locations and temporary accommodations: how do you look at the housing of start-ups? You might have mentioned that yourself, older people, other emergency seekers, but also status holders? Then how do we get it there? At the moment we follow the proposal, we cannot send from the municipalities at those locations either. Then the municipality can no longer send from that role to those people in those temporary locations, who can create some sort of intermediate buffer. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u123	What I'm saying is, I'm willing to look at any plan that can get people's housing going. In fact, Mr Kops's bill is not a priority for status holders anymore, but simply housing on the basis of equivalence. For me, that is a good bill, in the sense that everyone simply has the same rights to housing. So, yes, I am also prepared to look at the proposal that Mr De Groot refers to. But that does not alter the fact that we will be voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u124	When I was preparing myself for the second time, because we also made a written contribution on this initiative proposal by Mr Kops.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I don't see him right now. That motion was from July last year. It stated that the landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's landlord's That is exactly what Mr Kops is proposing. Vote: Forum for Democracy, JA21, Group Van Haga, VVD and PVV. The FarmerCitizen Movement isn't. What has led Mrs Van der Plas to turn 180 degrees compared to the vote she cast at the time on the Forum motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u125	Moving insight. It happens in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u126	Could you explain that a little further? What has brought Mrs Van der Plas to that moving insight? On what basis did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u127	Among other things, on the basis of the new situation in the Netherlands. Of course, we have had a huge stream of Afghan refugees. We are now dealing with the Ukrainian refugees. We are now dealing with overcrowded asylum-seekers' centres and then we are going back to an asylum debate which is no longer able to cope with the influx of refugees. If that influx of refugees gets that big, you'll end up getting more status holders in my head, which means that more homes will have to be allocated. Then you get another situation, because the housing shortage among the Dutch... I'd like to be clear about that. When I talk about "the Dutch," I don't mean "the white people"; I mean all Dutch people, so also people with a migration background who are Dutch, who live here and need a home. They can be Turks, Moroccans, Antilleans or white Dutchmen. All these people need a place to live, too. If you want to maintain the priority for status holders, then you also have to deal with that equivalence and losing the support. That is what I said in the debate. You just see that happen in society. People don't get it. They don't understand. They sit with children who need a home or need a home of their own, and do not understand that a status holder takes precedence over that property. That is my consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u128	Mr Geurts, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u129	I always try to understand why people make a 180 degree turn, just for myself, to learn from that. That with the Afghans played last July. Ukraine didn't play at the time, but they're not status holders, still not at the moment. So I sincerely wonder where that 180-degree turn came from. In addition to what I have tried to argue today, but perhaps not yet sufficiently clear, this initiative legislative proposal does not change the tasks that municipalities still have, even after adopting that legislation, in order to provide status holders with housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u130	Well, Mr. Geurts is a bit of a friendly guy here: I really don't get it and I really want to ask; this is really sincere... No, sorry, Mr. Geurts, you're shouting something now, but I'm just talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u131	You will conclude for a moment and I will give Mr Geurts the opportunity to make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u132	Yes. Mr Geurts is actually standing here asking a bit of bathing questions, of: I really want to know exactly. I've given you my consideration, Mr. Geurts. You can agree with that, and you cannot agree with that. You can get mad about it and you can tell friends in the pub tonight: well, he doesn't understand. I agree with all that, but this is my consideration and you will simply have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u133	When the arguments are up, Mr. Geurts is called "mister." I think that's such a derogatory way of having a discussion. I'm really trying to figure out why people make a 180-degree turn. But apparently Mrs Van der Plas has already formed her opinion, and then we end this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u134	I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u135	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs Podt, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u136	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. The right of initiative of this Chamber is a great asset. I therefore thank the initiator and the staff, who have spent time in the proposal and in answering our many questions. But it won't be a surprise, even given the interruptions of just now, that D66 cannot support the present bill. My group shares the concerns about housing. There's a big shortage of homes. People wonder if they or their children can still get a place to live. But it's ugly politics that the PVV here designates status holders as scapegoat. These are people who have fled war and violence. Instead of working on a solution, the initiator turns people against each other, as if this is not a problem for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u137	We know from D66 that the logic is far from complete. To the soul of that party, it cannot be found. That is why I would also like to make the comments just made by Mrs Padt in the direction of our initiator, Mr Kops, far from the PVV, and perhaps also of other parties. The terms Mrs Padt uses...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u138	It's Mrs. Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u139	Podt. Excuse me, excuse me. The wording used by Mrs Podt... If I were a PVV man standing there and a D66 man here, the sitting would have been suspended and I would have been called to order. So I would like to say back to D66: watch out for your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u140	In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I notice that we are going to say more and more things to the person. Let's just have the debate on the content. That's much nicer, from all sides. I would also like to ask Mrs Podt. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u141	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who need a home for any reason. This is why the cabinet is also full of new homes, building and making better use of vacant buildings, with many additional homes for attention groups, for status holders, but also for people who need a home quickly for another reason. And there's a lot, a lot to be done. Mr. Chairman. In local politics, I've been working a lot on vulnerable groups. I definitely recognize the problem of housing. I agree with Mr Kops that we must do everything we can to ensure that everyone finds a good home, but banning prioritising status holders is not going to solve the problem. Municipalities face a huge challenge in the area of housing. The Housing Act allows municipalities to set up local housing policies in such a way that vulnerable groups have their own roof over their heads as soon as possible. That's exactly what the Housing Act is about. This possibility is restricted by this proposal. Municipalities must fulfil a legal mission. Each year they are commissioned from the Empire to house a certain number of status holders. The Council of State therefore says in its opinion that the bill brings municipalities into a gap by having to comply with the obligation, but the instrument they have for this is being removed. As far as D66 is concerned, that is very undesirable. Municipalities have not been obliged to give priority to status holders since 2017, but 99% of municipalities still do. How does the initiator assess this fact? Do I understand correctly that the initiator thinks that municipalities are currently making the wrong choices? In the note following the report, the initiator writes "the legislative proposal is not about the needs of municipalities, but about the needs of people looking for housing." For D66, that's a false contradiction. The needs of local housing seekers are the needs of the municipalities. It is therefore not nice that local government is put aside by the initiator in this way. For years I have seen examples of municipalities and local administrators leading the way in creating creative housing solutions for all their inhabitants. Has the initiator talked to local directors about the proposal? If so, what reactions did he receive? If he doesn't, does he still want to do that? Mr. Chairman. It is impossible to talk about the housing of status holders without talking for a moment about the overall asylum chain and about integration. The asylum chain is completely blocked. Two weeks ago I was standing here at Question Time because we saw people who had to stay in the Ter Apel arrival hall. There was no place for them in regular care. That while a third of the residents of the COA shelter already have a status, but no home yet. The asylum chain would therefore also be at risk if the present legislative proposal were to become a reality. The same applies to integration policy. Research clearly shows that successful integration is hampered if it takes a long time for someone to become part of society. The longer someone has to wait for a home, the longer it takes for her or him to participate. In the answer, the initiator always states: this bill is about the housing market and not about integration. He also says that the problems in the asylum chain must be solved in the asylum chain itself. That's too easy. That way we can't make a policy. Does the initiator recognise that policy is always just one piece of the puzzle in a larger picture? Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions for the Minister. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister to also reflect on the coherence between the proposal, the asylum chain and integration. Last week we received a letter from the Minister. Among other things, it stated that it is legally established that "municipalities draw up an integral housing vision for all attention groups, including status holders." D66 is happy about that. What will this legal anchor look like? Is this going to be an amendment to the Housing Act? When can the House of Representatives expect a proposal for this legal framework? Mr. Chairman. I asked the initiator if he discussed the proposed bill with local directors. Given that the legislative proposal is not about the needs of municipalities, I doubt this, but I am very happy to look forward to the answer. At the same time, I would like to call on the Minister to discuss the proposal with local authorities and to provide a feedback to the Chamber for the continuation of our debate. Mr President, I will conclude. As I mentioned earlier, the D66 Group also sees the problems of housing, but we do not see a solution in pointing to status holders as culprits. Nevertheless, I wish the initiator success with the further examination of his own initiative law and look forward to continuing the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u142	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-tweedekamer-35.u143	I thank the initiator, his supporter, the minister, the spokesmen and the people in the public gallery. We are going in consultation with the initiator to find a moment to conduct the debate with each other. We need to see when we can. That brings us to the end of this day.
