ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate on Message Service eMates. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection, as well as the spokesmen and the people who are following this debate. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Ellian of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A message service that we do not have contractual agreements with, which we do not know where the messages are stored and who can do so, and to think that that message service is also used by the most dangerous criminals in the country, such as Taghi, Razzouki, Holleeder and others, who are in detention in the extra-security facility in Vught: this is simply dangerous and unacceptable. I therefore have the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the extra-security facility (ebi) in Vught the leaders of criminal organisations and other highly dangerous persons are detained;]] [[noting that Ridouan Taghi received 261 messages from the Ebi daily over a period from 1 January to 21 March 2022 and sent 157 messages and the average per prisoner is only two messages per month;]] [[noting that eMates is much more used from the Ebi than in regular detention;]] [[Whereas inmates in the EBI should not be able to have contact with their criminal organisation in order to prevent continued criminal acts from being committed from detention;]] [[Whereas the use of eMates in the eBi entails unacceptable risks;]] [[calls on the government to permanently stop the use of eMates in the Ebi in Vught,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellian.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-835]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u3	Then I have another motion, because not only people in the ebi can be dangerous. Of course, that applies to everyone on the GVM list and in the terrorist department. So with regard to them, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that inmates on the CSM list (detainees with flight and/or social risk) have a high to extreme risk profile and need additional supervisory measures;]] [[Whereas inmates on the CSM list should not be able to have contact with their criminal organisation in order to avoid continued criminal acts from detention;]] [[Whereas in the case of inmates on the CSM list there is an increased risk of continued criminal activity from detention;]] [[Whereas the use of eMates in all persons on the CSM list entails unacceptable risks;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the use of eMates permanently as soon as possible:]] [[all prisoners on the CSM list;]] [[in all terrorist departments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellian.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-836]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think there is another debate on this subject. We'll just have to see when that can be scheduled. We have, of course, already had a written round. That's why we can now file motions. So we see it's a huge mess, anyway, in all those prisons. That they can communicate uncontrolled must end. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the entry and exit posts of detainees, of which those of dangerous criminals and terrorists, are not subject to standard controls;]] [[Whereas it is generally known that criminals continue their criminal behaviour from prison;]] [[calls on the Government not to allow detainees to communicate with the outside world by hand, digitally but exclusively and very limited by handwritten letter, and to check any incoming and outgoing letter from detainees, subject to confidential communication between lawyers and clients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-837]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u5	It happened really fast, but this is for all the inmates?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think my motions speak for themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present all prisoners are deprived of ways of communicating digitally with their leftovers, as DJI had failed to make appointments with eMates message service in the context of a secure handling of personal data;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to agree as soon as possible on the safe handling of personal data in the event of the communication of prisoners to the outside world;]] [[believes that contact between prisoners and those who remain behind, for example partners and children, is desirable from a humane point of view but is also important for a responsible and good return to society;]] [[calls on the Government to resume a form of digital messaging service for detainees as soon as responsibly as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-838]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u9	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is now no legal basis to limit the number of messages that an inmate can send, for example, per day, per week, or per month;]] [[Whereas it is strange that it is not mandatory for a penitentiary device to provide a digital message service, but if such a message service is offered, its use cannot be limited;]] [[also considering the importance of preventing criminal acts in detention and that messages should be able to be carefully screened by the prison staff but should have sufficient time to do so;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a legal basis to limit the number of messages that inmates can send via a digital message service in individual cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-839]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u10	I also had a question, but it sees on another level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u11	Well, let's start with the question to you, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yeah, do that one first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u14	My question concerns that first motion. The disadvantage of a two-minute debate following a written consultation is that you have not been able to ask each other any questions at all before. Mr Sneller said, if I heard correctly, 'as soon as responsibly possible'. The ADR study is ongoing. The Minister says: after the summer I expect results. Should I understand the motion as it is only justified when the ADR investigation is in place? Or does Mr Van Nispen have another criterion on the basis of which he says: then it is justified and it should be done as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u15	It's a fair question. In any case, I find it irresponsible that no agreement has been reached on the handling of personal data all these years. Now all the prisoners and their stragglers are the victims of that, so it should never have come to this. Now we're standing here and an investigation is announced. If it can be justified rather than that the ADR study has been completed, then that is good. Maybe those appointments can be made sooner. Perhaps there are certain groups of prisoners in certain piss for which it is not risky and where it can be screened very carefully. Then we can do it sooner. If it can't be done sooner, so if the ADR study is necessarily necessary and really isn't completed until after the summer, then that's what it is and that's "as fast as justified as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u16	The ADR study, of course, deals with several aspects. If you make a contractual agreement with eMates about something, that does not mean that the other parts have become responsible. That is why I am looking for a moment: if I vote against it, am I opposed to it being done as quickly as possible, or do I think that the ADR investigation should simply be delayed so that we can make a careful assessment here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u17	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I couldn't agree more. I find it very uncomfortable that it is taking so long and that in the meantime all prisoners and all those who remain behind are the victims. Perhaps it can be done earlier, namely by making contractual agreements, which should have been done a long time ago, and by ensuring that messages can be properly screened. I also do not understand how it could have happened that messages have not been screened. That's actually the explanation of the motion. Finally, my question. The Telegraaf reported last week: "Alarm for shortages of money and staff." This is also relevant in this discussion. It's only if you want to avoid continued criminal acts in detention that you obviously need personnel to do so. But that's what predatory construction was about. Work pressure's sky high. There's insecurity. DJI's financial situation is unsustainable. That is why I would like to receive a letter from the Minister in response to this article for the committee debate Prisoners on 15 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. Then we'll go to Mr. Knops, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The D.A. calls the risk of continued criminal acts by inmates using eMates "significant." That is, of course, a major problem, which has to do with inadequate supervision. The number of messages that may be sent with eMates cannot be limited, according to the Minister's replies. Due to the large number of messages that may and can be sent via the service, it is currently not possible to have sufficient insight into that messaging traffic and to have control over any continued criminal activity during detention. The suspension of this service for all prisoners is the result. That is why I am tabling the next motion, also on behalf of Mr Ellian. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas eMates' message service has received and communicated from the Public Prosecutor's Office signals that there would be continued criminal activity during detention through that message service;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the RSJ that messages via eMates are equivalent to those referred to in Article 36 Pbw and are therefore not allowed to maximize the number of messages via eMates;]] [[noting that there is currently no understanding of the numbers and severity of VCHD (continuing criminal acts during detention) for DJI but that this is important for combating them;]] [[Considering that the (manual) monitoring of messages via services such as eMates is a labour-intensive and time-consuming task and that this has (indirectly) ensured the suspension of the said message service from the security perspective;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine, taking into account the results of the ADR study on eMates.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Ellian.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24587-840]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u20	The situation of predatory work on the prison staff, and the lack of people, I believe, has been there for years. And now a computer should actually take over that important human work safety is human work. It's just an investigation, so in that sense, I understand the motion. But I still wonder how a computer could ever detect certain code language that goes out of detention. Does Mr. Knops have any idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u21	Oh, yeah. You say that there are too few people, but we also need to think about what these people are doing and how, if you have scarce capacity, you can use these kinds of systems to relieve staff. That is why I have tabled this motion, which is in fact in line with the input you have made. This is one option; there may be more options to do so. But this does require you to think about what you can do. Now everything has just stopped, with all the consequences of that. In any case, you also think that this is far too much of a rücksichtslos and that this is understandable in view of the situation, but cannot continue in this way. Then you need to think about new systems. This could be a possibility. The technique at this point is continuing. That is also what I am asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this term on the part of the Chamber. The Minister has indicated that he needs about ten minutes to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u23	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Please allow me to give a brief introduction and briefly outline how we came here and where we are now. After that, I will give an appreciation to the motions that have been tabled. The Public Prosecutor's Office has expressed its concern at the eMates message service, which, as you know by now, provides messages between prisoners and their families and friends. As a result, DJI decided to suspend the use of the eMates message service until further notice. In other words, DJI does not send messages to prisoners offered via eMates. This means that there is no longer any communication with the outside world via the eMates message service. That is today's reality, today's. I have already informed you of the how and why of the concerns in a letter I sent you on 24 March, as well as in the report of the written consultation that your Chamber received on 24 May. In summary, this concerns concerns the lack of contractual agreements between DJI and eMates, the number of messages and the lack of visibility of the information sent through this system. Mr. Chairman. Let me stress that I have taken the signals from the D.A. more than seriously. I support the Justice Department in its decision to suspend the use of the eMates message service. At the same time, I understand that it is an annoying decision for prisoners, family and friends who use this message service, but this does not mean that prisoners are isolated from the outside world by this decision or are hindered in their reintegration and rehabilitation, because mail, telephony and visits are still allowed. The prisoner, in other words, keeps in touch with the outside world he or she is entitled to. Where are we now? I can be brief about the eMates messaging service itself. Their use is still suspended. The Audit Service is now investigating how this process has been conducted and whether the Judicial Institutions Service can continue to use an electronic messaging service in the future and, if so, under what conditions. I've contacted the ADR. After the summer it will be early before the autumn I inform you about the progress. Finally, I cannot tell you whether and when DJI will again use the eMates message service. I am advised by the conclusions of the ADR report. In the meantime, however, I believe that the rules for a particular category of detainees should be stricter. I am referring to prisoners with a higher risk profile. Think, for example, of prisoners on the EBI or the TA, the terrorist department. For this higher risk group, you also hear me very emphatically saying that I am still working on the precise demarcation... I do not want to allow the use of eMates or any electronic messaging service anymore. The three Bs apply to them: letters, calls or visits. I'm about to express my appreciation for the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thank you. Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Markuszower, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u26	I didn't really expect such an introduction, because I thought that was more part of the debate. If I have listened carefully to the introduction, it seemed as if it was found that there were problems with eMates, that it stopped then, that we are going to suspend it now and that we are going to look into it for the future. That was a bit of an introduction. But what the Minister is going to do is perhaps we should ask that before the debate, or perhaps the Minister can respond briefly now. It is possible that it took so long before the Ministry found out that this message service was being abused and how much danger that has created for society. How many criminal activities have been carried out through that system? The Minister is getting over that very quickly. I understand, because it's an introduction, but it seemed like it was detected in time and stopped in time. One of the problems was that it continued for years and was not detected and that criminals were actually free to continue their criminal activities through the eMates system. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u27	You are absolutely right: it is indeed not a debate; it is a two-minute debate. I would therefore ask the Minister to respond very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u28	Madam President, I apologize that I might provoke this. That is by no means my intention, because, as Mr Markuszower rightly points out, I have to deal with this during a debate, which I would also like to do. May I leave it at that, Madam President? Yeah? Thank you. I now turn to the appreciation of the motions. I'll start with the motion in part no. 835 by Mr Ellian of the VVD, in which he may I put it this way? The Government requests that, regardless of the outcome of the ADR investigation, the use of eMates be discontinued in the eBi. In fact, I can also apply the text to the second motion, which concerns item No. 836 was tabled by Mr Ellian on GVM and TA, the terrorist division. As I have just indicated, I believe that regardless of the outcome of the ADR study, the use of a service such as eMates should no longer be offered to prisoners with a higher risk profile. Those are also the prisoners who are in the ebi or a terrorist department. For these inmates, I want to go back to the three b's, as I just put it in my introduction. But this does require care. I want to make this right. That's what we're working on. The current situation is that eMates has been suspended. There is no risk of continued criminal acts using eMates, as we speak. Within this context, in which I therefore agree with the purpose of the motion but also have to recognise that it must be properly arranged, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. That applies to the first motion, but also to the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u29	A question from Mr Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u30	The motion says "directly." I'm just trying to make it clear what we're going to vote for here, because the RSJ said you can't even limit it. The Minister said in the written consultation: "I have to accept that." Then we can't say here as Chamber, against the verdict, that we're going to stop it immediately. We can say: make sure that there is a legal basis for doing so when the ADR study is ready. But we can't say against the rules that we have to stop right now, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u31	That's when I have to go into the message service. Is that a right? Is that a possibility? Can you or can you not determine that per penitentiary? Now I'm putting that in a very tight and sharp map. What room does that allow me to end the message service for the target population of detainees? Whether a legal basis is needed is also one of the questions I am looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yeah, but then it's very clear. Of course, the first two motions will never get judgment, because that is precisely what is being investigated. I therefore find it odd that the Minister should say that he agrees with these motions, because he gives them the Chamber of Appeal, regardless of the outcome of that investigation. Isn't that what that research is for, to find out all that? In substance, I have a problem with this as well. I would think that if it can be arranged safely and properly, then that is precisely what is being investigated in that study, it is not a matter of principle whether you are using pen and paper or a digital message service. That is what I think the research should prove, especially for these high-risk categories. Perhaps then it will come to this judgment. I'm not ruling that out; that might well be possible. I think it makes perfect sense to wait for the investigation to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u33	The investigation is important, but I also see the motions as a huge support for the policy as I have picked it up and now I am implementing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u34	It is also important for the outside world to be too sharp. However, I would ask you, Mr President, that mail should be allowed at the moment. There is no question of any restriction, as suggested by my colleague. All that is said now, I ask the Minister, is that we stop this service, with something we offer someone? Isn't that how we understood each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u35	That is correct, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u36	That means that the motions on pieces Nos. 835 and 836 both judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u37	That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u38	The Minister needs a lot of words to appreciate the motion. I had the same confusion as Mr Van Nispen, apart from what I think of the motion, because that is not the point at all. I do think that if it says "calls the government to stop immediately" it is now suspended. It means stop immediately. We are going to involve the investigation or not, because that is not in the motion. I am always used to the idea that motions should be clear and unambiguous. This is what it says. If the Minister gives this motion judgment Chamber, he also agrees 100% with the operative part of the motion. I would like to hear that confirmed by the Minister, or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u39	I have given my appreciation, in which I have specifically said that for this high-risk inmates target group, the message service should stop. Questions have been asked about that. I heard that one. At the same time, I have indicated that I want the ADR study... I have made the remark that I want the next space. First, the ADR study. I'll have it around the fall. Then I'll take a stand. I'll share that with your room. Then we get the edge on how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u40	However, does the ADR study then look at the other categories and not at these? For the Minister is quite sure about this, as is the author of the motion, namely to stop the use of eMates immediately and definitively for people who are in an eBi or in the terrorist department. Then I don't need the ADR anymore. It doesn't say that here. The word "ADR" is not mentioned here at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u41	At the moment, eMates has indeed been suspended, very emphatically. It is therefore not possible to use it. Again, I read the motion very emphatically as support for the cabinet policy as I am now implementing, namely to ensure that people with a high risk profile, especially those from the EBI and the TA, cannot use this service, even in the future. May I continue with my appreciation, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u42	Yes. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 837.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u43	The motion in part No. 837 comes from the PVV. I'm dissuading the motion. I would point out that measures must be imposed per individual, per prisoner. That is what the law as such indicates, and I have to abide by it. Then the motion to part No. 838, from the SP, from Mr Van Nispen. Let me say first of all that Mr Van Nispen and I agree that, from the point of view of a good return to society, it is desirable that prisoners should be able to maintain contact with their partners, children and so on. It is now being examined whether the DJI can continue to use an electronic message service in the future and, if so, under what conditions. The outcome of that investigation may also be negative. I'm not ruling that out. I think it's important to have that investigation to know how I handle this. There is nothing left for me but to ask you to hold the motion. If, in anticipation of the investigation, you decide to take a stand and maintain this motion, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u44	I'll take a look at Mr. Van Nispen. Is he willing to make his motion in part no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u45	I don't think so, Mr. Chairman. It does say "as fast as it can be justified." I was pleased with the debate on the interruption, because that gave me the opportunity to explain it further. If it can't be done before the ADR investigation, then it's only by the time of the ADR investigation; that's where the Minister has me. But I think there's got to be a way to take care of it safely. That is my firm conviction. If the investigation shows that it really can't be done, you can even say with this motion in hand: it really can't be justified anymore, and that's impossible. That's my explanation for this. But I think we can vote on this very well. As an intention, we say the following. It is not about the groups that we have just talked about, but for the vast majority of the prisoners we think this is so important that we are going to do our best to get this started responsibly and as soon as possible. I think the Minister wants that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u46	I'm sticking to my point of view. Then I'll have to discourage the motion. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 839 on the legal basis. I say something similar about this. You are asking me to take positions now, while I want the results of the investigation. Only then can I determine whether that base is needed, yes or no. I therefore ask you to hold the motion. If you put her to the vote, I'll give her the appreciation "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u47	Now I think it's getting really weird. The motions on the documents Nos. 835 and 836, who are asking for a final position in anticipation of the investigation, are simply given the Chamber's judgment. The Minister says: fine, as far as the cabinet is concerned. This motion, which in part No. 839, actually asks to say the following. We find it very strange that some prisoners could send dozens of messages a day. There was no legal basis to stop that. That is what we are saying: it seems to us wise to do so for the future. But to that the Minister says: I really need that investigation first. I find it very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u48	First of all, I would like to take advantage of Mr Van Nispen's question, Madam President. Let me be very clear: from Ebi/TA inmates all messages were always checked via eMates. Let me insist on that. You're also talking about other inmates. You propose to regulate the quantity legally. I say that I do not know at all whether I will continue with electronic messaging. I would like to await the outcome of the investigation. If I start taking positions on quantity right now, I'm ahead of the music. Therefore, my advice is: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 840, if I may, Madam President, Mr Knops' motion from the CDA. I have instructed the Audit Service to investigate the risks of using the eMates system and the cooperation between the DJI and eMates. The aim of the study is to get an objective and validated picture of how eMates works, what risks are involved and how they can be mitigated. With these results I can make a well-founded decision whether and, if so, how eMates can proceed, and under what conditions. I also need that to determine whether the deployment of artificial intelligence can be part of an e-mail message service. I've just informed you that I'll inform your room of the results of that investigation before the fall. The motion also states that the results of the ADR study determine the design of the research into the possibilities that AI can offer. If the ADR study provides sufficient leads, the AI study will then be able to follow. Give me the space in time to see and follow that. That is why I ask you to allow me to interpret the motion in this way. In that case, I can give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u49	I see Mr Knops nodding, so he agrees with this interpretation. Then the motion gets to part No. 840 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u50	That's it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u51	I just have one more question: a afterburner. I am looking at the Ellian, because there was some discussion about the motions on the items Nos. 835 and 836. Is he prepared to amend the motions in accordance with the Minister's interpretation in terms of text, so that Members of Parliament also know what they are voting for? Mr. Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u52	Now you ambush me, Mr. Chairman. What should I change? To be honest, I haven't heard a request my way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u53	I think the Minister has indicated in relation to the investigation... I do not want to start the discussion myself as President, but I see that there is confusion about the motions on the items Nos. 835 and 836 when we look at the literal text. The Minister has given his interpretation. I would ask the Minister to do that again before the motions on the items Nos. 835 and 836. Then I will look at Mr Ellian to see if he is prepared to amend the text of the motion so that the Members of Parliament know what they are voting on. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u54	I have indicated that I agree with the purpose of Mr Ellian's motion. I have also indicated that it must be properly arranged. I have indicated what the current situation is at the moment and also that the three b's... We agreed on that. He asked another question about this: does that apply, yes or no? The members of parliament were, in fact, particularly concerned with the term "per direct."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u55	There was some discussion about "once in a while." Mr. Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u56	Of course, I'm not talking about the Minister's appreciation. That motion is quite clear; that is also my responsibility. You know what? I'm gonna consider the term "directly"... I'll take a look at the minister and the body position of colleagues. If "immediately" goes out, maybe that'll help everyone here. I see the Minister nodding. I'm gonna consider that and come back to that. Just a little time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u57	Thank you very much for this move. I'll take a look at Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u58	I had asked for a commitment, a response from the Minister for the committee debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u59	Sure. The question was about the Telegraph article that was published last weekend. You asked me if I wanted to inform you of this by letter for the committee debate on 15 June. On 20 May I informed this Chamber of the situation at the Judicial Institution Office. I'm repeating information right now. For Princess Day, for the third Tuesday in September, I expect to have further information. I don't have one right now. If I give you a letter, I will repeat it and send you the same letter. That is why I ask you to accept that we conduct the debate properly, but I cannot give you a letter following the Telegraph article. I don't have any additional, new information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u60	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-02-tweedekamer-5.u61	I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment and then we shall proceed to the two-minute debate on trade relations with Africa. Before I really hammer it out, I would like to say that next Tuesday we are going to vote on the motions that have been tabled. Yeah, sure. This also applies to the two-minute debate Options for right recovery box 3. I didn't mention that wrongly. I thank the Minister for his presence here and I thank the spokesmen. I'm suspending the meeting for a single moment.
