ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35814, Act implementing EU Renewable Energy Directive for guarantees of origin. I would like to welcome the Minister for Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u3	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Paternalism and the green compulsion have no limits. Cowardly politicians often hide behind the European Union, which rolls out the political agenda they desire. It is not for nothing that the same politicians who are dipping with the European Union do not use the space that the European Union does offer. They are more Roman than the Pope and often tighten the rules even more. This green self-sustaining not only leads to a very expensive energy supply, but also leads to the situation that security of supply is no longer self-evident. Mr. Chairman. By 2022, the Netherlands had to aim for a 14% consumption of energy from renewable sources. This task proved to be an impossible task in practice. Well, I guess we'll just have to use a very expensive accounting trick. On paper, it had to knock at all costs. And it could cost! Denmark happily delivered no less than 170 million green certificates and nothing else. The question to the Minister is whether he knows any more of those institutions that give away tens of millions without consideration. I'd like a response. And so we were 170 million tax dollars lighter for a good, politically correct feeling that somewhere, probably in Denmark, more than 13 terawatts of renewable energy had been generated. But, yes, everything was right on paper, and the 14% target, a percentage that you just have to strive for, was achieved. But striving is something other than actually having to realize. The question to the Minister is therefore: should this percentage of 14% actually be met? What would have been the consequences if they hadn't? New rules apply for 2030. Perhaps in the context of the ever closer union, the European Union will have a joint, binding target rate of 32% in 2030. In particular, the combination of binding target rates is special. You'll be bound to do your best and we'll see where we come out. You can't take such statements seriously, can you? But in the meantime, billions of euros are being pumped into this green circus. In order not to be too clumsy, Member States themselves decide on an indicative contribution for 2030 on the basis of the European Regulation. In the case of the Netherlands, a contribution of 26% applies. But to do a good job, the cabinet has set the bar even higher and set the goal at 27%. The Plan Bureau for the Environment exults that the implementation of the Climate Agreement on top of existing and planned policies can even lead to 30% to 32% renewable energy by 2030. The question to the Minister is: should that percentage of 26% actually be achieved and what are the consequences if it is not achieved? By setting a common European target rate, trade in certificates will be encouraged. These certificates include guarantees of origin, which represent a quantity of renewable energy. In the Netherlands, these guarantees are already being issued for electricity, electricity generated in a facility for high efficiency cogeneration and green gas. The present proposal adds gas, not green gas, but gas produced from or using energy from renewable sources. This concerns, for example, hydrogen and biosyngas. Under the guise of full openness, or full disclosure, certificates of origin have been created as well as guarantees of origin. These certificates represent energy from fossil fuels, such as coal and gas. These are recorded and then traded. Hoppa, an extra post cost for the consumer! It's like the energy bill isn't getting out of control right now. To underpin the power label, suppliers use certificates and guarantees of origin issued by state-owned companies CertiQ, Vertogas and other European issuing bodies. The certificates and guarantees issued represent a value which cannot be clearly established by an outsider. This paper trade is largely carried out on a private basis. The issuing authorities do not form part of trade agreements nor are they aware of their content. Therefore, the Minister has no idea how many euros are going around in this market, with the result that he does not have a clue as to the scale of the additional costs that will eventually be borne by the consumer. Does the minister even know what he's doing? Surely it cannot be that the Minister is burdening consumers with extra costs without having any idea of the level of these additional costs? It is not for nothing that the Minister no longer wants to hear that his climate plans should be feasible and affordable, because he simply does not know. He'd rather not be confronted with that. However, the PVV wants to discuss feasible and affordable. So we also want to have clarity about the additional costs. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister also points out that there would be a higher willingness to pay for renewable energy, but what is that based on? A higher willingness to pay, by whom? Surely you do not believe that the already 550,000 emaciated families who are already unable to pay their energy bills are warming up to pay even more? Or is this elitist wishful thinking? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. To get the people into green delusions, the propaganda machine is running at full speed, not only in the media, but also within companies, education and on the energy note. Consumers must be raised according to this cabinet. After you first have to lie down after you have faced an ever-increasing energy bill and have to process it, the supplier tries to cheer the consumer up a bit. This by mentioning how good the supplier and you would be at it. The invoice shows not only the amount of energy used by the consumer, but also the amount of energy generated from renewable sources somewhere that you would have used. It's just a paper reality. It is no guarantee at all that the same consumer has actually used this amount of energy from renewable sources. Surely it is bizarre that consumers should be forced to pay for something that is not certain whether it has actually been delivered to them? It's just deception. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. A paper reality is being established based on a system of trading in certificates and guarantees of origin, which simply generates additional revenue for suppliers to boost the profitability of renewable energy projects. Next, the cabinet can make a good impression because renewable energy is becoming less and less slurping or no more subsidies. In fact, the consumer is being cheated. This is even though there are already 550,000 households living in energy poverty, and not only the minimum income, but also the modal income, struggling to survive at the end of the month. But according to the Minister, consumers would like to pay for these guarantees of origin. The PVV Group wonders whether those households in the cold are really warming up to this green deception. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Atsma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u5	Mr President, thank you. It is a pleasure to exchange views with this Minister for the first time on an issue that we consider to be very relevant. I say in advance that I have some affinity with the subject on the agenda, especially from a number of activities I do outside the Upper Chamber. Because I am administratively involved in the tank storage in the Netherlands. I am also active on behalf of the province of Groningen in the Eemshaven. As the President and perhaps his colleagues know, a lot is happening in the Eemshaven at the moment when it comes to the energy transition. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned today, it is mainly about guarantees of origin and their translation into the directive. That is what I would like to focus my contribution on, and in particular on one specific point. That's hydrogen. Mr. Chairman. We have no problem with the general principle that suppliers and traders will soon have to be able to demonstrate that energy has been produced sustainably. We are fine with that in itself. We also endorse that this can be done. The question is to what extent this policy will be unambiguous and enforceable. I would like to ask a number of questions about that. There are certainly questions on this subject. The directive and its translation already show that it can be complicated. The information that came to us from the House of Representatives and the answer by the Minister also make it clear that it is a rather complex subject. In our view, not all the questions have so far been sufficiently answered by the cabinet. That is why we are asking for this to be considered in plenary. Mr. Chairman. Hydrogen is becoming increasingly involved as an energy carrier. If you've been following the discussions of recent times, you could say that we have hydrogen in sizes and species. It started with grey hydrogen. We have green hydrogen, blue hydrogen and perhaps purple hydrogen, based on nuclear energy. I also came across the term "pink hydrogen." I do not go into the meanings of the different types of hydrogen that are being defined now, but they do indicate that it is quite complex. I am referring in particular to the question of where the raw material for hydrogen comes from. Is it from heat, from wind energy, from solar energy, from nuclear energy? Is it from the Netherlands or from Europe or from outside Europe? In this sense, the system of guarantees of origin becomes rather complex. That's also where part of our concern is. What does this mean in general terms, for example, for the administrative burden on businesses? Mr Faber stressed the importance of consumers. This is also important, but companies that are going to play a role in this will be faced with this like no other. Is it all traceable to the sustainable production that this directive is intended to guarantee? Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group has a number of questions that matter as far as we are concerned. We would like a clear answer from the Minister. In addition, there has been a lot of change in recent months. We've seen the discussion in the Lower House. After that, we have done the written preparation in this house. Things have changed a lot in recent months. I am referring, of course, to the situation in Ukraine. The war in Ukraine has made it clear that the crisis in the energy market has accelerated. The crisis is such that we are trying to extract a large part of our energy resources from all corners of the world: from Qatar to the United States and from Canada to Senegal. This morning Germany's talks with Senegal were in the news. All these energy sources can be used for the hydrogen energy carrier. By the way, you can also convert hydrogen into electricity. That makes it even more complex. We have a very specific question to the Minister as to whether what we are aiming at with this directive on guarantees of origin is enforceable if we look at the global market that is now being discussed. Is the directive feasible and verifiable, taking that global market in mind and looking at what is currently happening from all over the world, also in the direction of the Netherlands? As far as we are concerned, that is the most important question. So far, we have found that this question has not been sufficiently answered. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like an answer to the question as to how much this actually affects the administrative burden on all those companies operating nationally and internationally. We have not been able to get a good indication of this so far. We'd appreciate that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr President. It is nice to discuss this issue with Minister Jetten for the first time today. You and the other delegates here in the room may have seen the film Don't Look Up. If you haven't seen him, I can highly recommend him. Lifelike satire though, but still, about an astronomer warning the world of a comet coming straight to Earth and destroying the entire planet within six months. The reaction of politics in the film is predictable. "We're not gonna talk about that right now." "Elections are coming up, and we won't win any votes with this." "After the election, we'll see about it." There are campaigns in the film with the slogan Don't Look Up, and there are citizens and politicians who deny that a comet is coming at all. As long as you don't look up, the comet is clearly visible there. We know by now: the film doesn't end well. Shortly before the comet destroys the earth, the scientist sighs "And we had it so well!" In other words, what a shame we've ruined each other. Mr. Chairman. Worldwide but certainly also in the Netherlands we see a similar political reflex. I understand how difficult it is not only to look up in a coalition, but to see that not everyone feels the same. Climate change is widely denied by some parties, or at least has nothing to do with human action. Things aren't gonna go that fast, and other things are just ahead of us. Meanwhile, the oceans acidify, a large part of the Amazon emit more CO than it absorbs and millions of people are starving in Africa because of the scorching heat the harvests fail. And that's where the war in Ukraine comes in. The irony is that we in the West are currently the least affected by climate change, while the poorest parts of the world are already suffering the consequences on a daily basis. In the Netherlands alone, we consume every year as if we had more than three globes at our disposal. That's untenable. According to climate scientists, we have about seven years to turn the tide. Then a domino effect of mutually reinforcing developments arises. This will not happen with a big blow such as the impact of a comet, but with extreme weather, air pollution, depleted oceans and loss of biodiversity. Today we are debating the implementation of the revised EU directive from 2018 and in particular the guarantees of origin. The Second Chamber debate on this matter took place in December last year and in the short time between that debate and this debate, the world has started to look very different. Due to the war in Ukraine, pressure to get off the gas has become acute. It turns out that we have done too little in the Netherlands in recent years to switch to sustainable alternatives. There's a big panic. Many citizens are no longer able to pay their gas bills. This brings some of them to the choice of buying a cheap but very polluting wood stove. These are worrying developments. The cabinet, which, under great pressure from the industrial lobby, with Shell as the main instigator, had fully deployed on blue hydrogen, must now change course. Because for this blue hydrogen it is precisely the now scarce and expensive natural gas that is needed. Follow the Money had an interesting article about that last week. The fossil industry was well aware that for the time being the Netherlands would not have enough green energy for the production of real green hydrogen, but if you make hydrogen out of gas and capture its CO emissions and store them in empty gas fields under the North Sea, CCS, we would have the ideal solution. "You don't even have to let the industry reduce its CO emissions," I hear Mr Willems from the CDA say in 2010, twelve years ago. Don't Look Up. We can sweep the dirt under the carpet. We will have to replace that with prevention, in our view. And how green is that green hydrogen real? Green hydrogen can be part of an effective climate policy, but how sustainable is it when green hydrogen is then used for polluting processes such as in fertilizer factories, which hinder the transition to circular agriculture? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The greenest energy is energy that you do not have to generate and therefore does not produce emissions. However, the largest CO emitters in recent years did not have to pay a cent in CO taxation. The polluter was exempted. Tata Steel doesn't pay anything. Users of diesel and fuel oil for commercial inland waterway transport do not pay anything. Coal used for electricity generation, kerosene used for international flights: all exempted. For imagine that companies would continue their polluting activities elsewhere, where CO emissions are cheaper. So much for our jobs and our taxable income. Deferring and exempting, we see that time and time again. Our hope is that this minister will and can turn that tide. The government does want to pursue climate policy, but slow down, until we have reached a compromise between parties with often conflicting interests. That's a problem. On balance, the interests of large industry still outweigh our health, nature and biodiversity and climate. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, we need to get rid of Russian gas as soon as possible. We do not want to contribute to Putin's war chest. This week, Commissioner Frans Timmermans announced the intention to compensate for the gap with more biomass. Really, he swore in the broadcast of the Hofbar last week, it's really just about residual wood and we're going to plant billions of trees. This is greenwashing in optima forma. Everyone knows that burning trees is more polluting than burning coal and gas, and everyone also knows that it takes decades for the CO released by combustion to be absorbed by new crops. Biomass contributes to climate change and is therefore certainly not a suitable solution, even for transition. Mr. Chairman. When the EU imposes unsustainable rules on Member States, the Netherlands should be able to derogate from them. I hope that the Minister in Brussels will insist on this. This is also why it is so important that the Netherlands itself provides the right national laws and regulations. Has the Minister considered whether there are possibilities to make exceptions for guarantees of origin for sources and carriers that we do not consider sustainable in the Netherlands, such as biomass, or is the Minister prepared to exclude biomass from such COAs? We like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. At the moment, the CO density is 415 particles per million CO. That is more than double the CO density at the beginning of the industrial revolution. Those numbers need to be drastically reduced. This is the only way to resolve the climate crisis. Keeping pumping a constant number of CO particles doesn't get us anywhere. We therefore believe that it is not wise to implement systems of guarantees of origin if we do not have the guarantee that they will only be provided for renewable energy and that they will actually reduce CO. Does the Minister agree? Mr. Chairman. The EU recently declared natural gas and nuclear energy to be green energy sources. What are the consequences for the COO system? The aim of the EU directive is to increase the share of renewable energy and reduce the share of fossil energy. So you want the COO system to lead to more production of green energy and less production of fossil energy. We would very much like to know how the Minister intends to deal with this and how it remains clear whether it is really green energy or not. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of the fraud-proneness of the SACs. That kind of system has to be airtight. Is that them? Can the Minister guarantee that? The GVO systems do not contribute by themselves to the energy transition. They can even cause a negative effect. In the electricity sector we now see that renewable energy co-operatives can be bought cheaply from abroad, for example from countries where there is a surplus. This removes the incentive in the Netherlands to produce more renewable energy itself. That is exactly what we have seen in recent years. It was obvious that the Netherlands would not meet its renewable energy targets and so in 2020 our country bought a flexible amount of renewable energy from Denmark, which was booked for a huge amount in 2021. Mr Faber was just talking about it. As a result, renewable energy is no longer produced in the Netherlands. Does the government have an adequate view of the risks to these POs if we do not ensure that additional production of renewable energy takes place in the Netherlands? There are still many opportunities to save gas in the Netherlands, for example in the energy-intensive production of fertilizer. Raising energy prices for large consumers of gas in industry will make it more attractive for these companies to be sustainable. As I said, the largest energy consumers still pay little tax at the moment. That really has to change. The time for looking away is over. We have seven more years to achieve the necessary goals. What are we going to do to achieve those goals? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Mr Vendrik will then speak on behalf of GroenLinks and possibly also on behalf of another group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by apologizing for the confusion I caused by late registration of this debate. Excuse me. I'm gonna make my life better. I see you looking and thinking "they say that often in The Hague," but I'll text you. I will indeed speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal concerns the national introduction of an EU Directive from 2018 which looks at the extension of the existing system of COOs, guarantees of origin. That system has been in place for years for electricity, heat and green gas, and this implementation law extends to other gases. The ultimate objective of this system and the present enlargement is to ensure that the energy transition takes place as quickly as possible. This requires transparency in the renewable energy market so that customers are sure that the energy purchased has a renewable origin. Those POs also have a price on the market. All this could, according to the theory, give an extra boost to the business case of renewable production. As mentioned above, this legislative proposal extends the functioning of the COO system to other gases, such as green hydrogen, so that it can be ensured that its production is CO-free. Grosso modo so far, so good as regards the groups of GroenLinks and the Party of Labour. Strictly speaking, it transposes a long-standing directive into national law. The political decision has been taken long and wide and this requires this implementing law, if not inevitable. Moreover, for my group and the Labour Party there is a good reason to bring green hydrogen under this system in particular in order to provide a solid framework for the scaling-up of green hydrogen production in the Netherlands and beyond, which my group would like to see. Mr. Chairman. That immediately raises a first question for the Minister. The bill speaks of "other gases." Which ones are they? What will be covered by the operation of this enlargement? That is what my group is listening to. Mr. Chairman. Then there's my second question. I understand that a deadline for implementation was agreed in the directive at the time: 30 June 2021. We're almost a year later. That's not what you want, is it? Is this just a wonderful accident, namely the cabinet formation, or has anything else gone wrong? I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments on the broader framework. Mr Koffeman has already put that very nicely, strikingly and quite rightly. I am talking about the broader framework in which this relatively modest debate takes place. Indeed, climate change is already taking on alarming forms much faster. Today, it is already affecting fast-track ecosystems and robbing global society at a rapid pace of the natural conditions on which our prosperity rests. We're gonna eat up our capital in an emergency. In business terms, this is an extremely unsustainable course, leading to bankruptcy. We know that from the market. We are once again overwhelmed by reports and reports that the process of climate change is already going much faster than ever thought and is already having much more impact than has been estimated in countless reports from the past 30 years. It is right that UN boss António Guterres, for example, should devote ever heavier words to what is at stake here. The 1.5 degrees, Glasgow's goal, is almost impossible to reach. We need to stop fossil production now, but we don't. That 1.5 degrees is already in the books. It's all funded, but the oil companies are continuing to tap new sources. We know that in the coming decades this will lead to additional production for which there is no carbon budget that corresponds to 1.5 degrees. How urgent does the urgency still have to be to intervene much and much harder? Mr. Chairman. The war in Ukraine actually confirms the image that was already there. Their impact on food and energy once again reinforces the need to accelerate the climate transition to the highest degree of acceleration. It would be nice if perhaps the Minister could briefly share his latest views on this in the context of the debate. Mr. Chairman. Back to the bill in that regard. In the text of the Directive, and in the same way as explained in the explanatory memorandum to this bill, the European Commission refers to that aim of bringing at least 32% of the total energy consumption in the European Union from renewable sources by 2030. The original Dutch share was 27%. So that could now be 32%. In the meantime, however, this scaling-up of ambitions and pathways and the reform of the energy system and our economic system has necessarily accelerated. Think of the discussion on Fit for 55, on REPowerEU over the last week of the European Commission and so on. What does this mean for the purposes of landing this bill? Can the Minister give us an update on this? Does this also have material significance for the further development of this COO system for other gases? I don't think so, but I'll check with this minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I take up the thread of the debate on this bill where the House of Representatives ended in December, partly in response to the contribution of PvdA spokesperson Joris Thijssen and the then arrested motion-Thijssen on which the outgoing State Secretary of EZK sent a letter dated 13 December 2021. The issue of Thijssen, scam flow, the improper use of GvO's, the greenwashing of fossil power, also partly touch on the point that has just been mentioned by Mr Koffeman. For my group, national trade in and use of CSOs to achieve national targets, whereas it does not actually lead to additional production, remains a major concern. The Secretary of State made it clear in that letter on 13 December that the solution of Thijssen, a mandatory link between GVOs and PPAs, would not provide a direct solution. The Secretary of State said that there may be two alternative routes under investigation: adaptation of the rules for the power label and GvO's based on production on an hourly or daily basis. What's the last stand here? What's this minister gonna do with this? What's the new cabinet up to here? Is this really a dam against the improper use of the COO system? Mr President, last but not least. As far as we are concerned, this Minister is in everything, including with the drafting of this bill, the COO system for other gases, on a complete decarbonisation of economic and energy systems. This includes a tight system of GvO's that offers no space to keep fossil sources of energy alive somewhere in the chain. So no blue hydrogen, for example. This is what must be at the heart of the CoR's........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The COO system needs to be more and more compatible with that. I would like to hear whether the Minister also shares that perspective for the future. And last but not least, Mr President: in the taxonomy debates in Europe, the Minister knows the same thing here too, namely that all labelling, all classification, all certification, all certification, and that also applies to the GvO's system, is based on production, but not on the whole cycle. Actually, you should expand those kinds of systems if you want to get to a real decarbonisation of the economy and the energy system. This applies to the COO system; you can also see this debate emerging in taxonomy. We actually need to look much more comprehensively at what is really sustainable. Is that also the eye-catching prospect that this Minister shares? How does he see that in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u10	And that puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u11	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Mr. Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u13	Is there also room for purple hydrogen in relation to nuclear energy in Mr Vendrik's beckoning perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u14	It's complicated. Exactly in line with my last remark: if you look closely at the whole chain of nuclear energy production, then it may be that the box is actually CO-free. But if you translate that into the whole chain, then nuclear power isn't CO-free. I think that's the look we all have here. This also applies to a number of production chains for windmills and solar energy. There's the exact same debate. There too, chains will have to be created, certification will have to be provided, market players and financiers will have to insist that the whole chain becomes CO-free, literally from the mineral from which a production technique is produced to the actual production. To be honest, I have never understood, after 70 years of nuclear energy, that this perspective will be possible. I believe that technological innovation within the nuclear domain is rather modest. It has become safer, but it has not become cheaper and certainly not more CO-poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u15	But it does meet a number of criteria that Mr Vendrik has just outlined. If I listen to him carefully, there are really very few raw materials carriers that can meet those criteria. Aren't you afraid that your own plea will lead to a minimalisation of the supply of green hydrogen that can still be produced in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u16	On the contrary. I guess it's not that complicated in the end. If you look at the Netherlands, to limit me to that, everyone sees that the biggest backbone of the energy transition is the combination of wind at sea and green hydrogen. This is extremely interesting for the entire electricity system and it can be achieved more quickly. I think that the nuclear power stations that the government wants to investigate, to place them in the Netherlands, are too late for this whole transition anyway, and that they are also too expensive. For nuclear energy in a market with flexible supply which is becoming much more variable, I honestly do not see a business case where financiers are going to say that they are getting in unless the government gives massive guarantees, rethinking costs and so on, as governments have done in nuclear energy over the last 70 years. I think this should be the focus of the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u17	One last question, very briefly. Mr Vendrik ignores my question. What he thinks about nuclear energy has now become clear. I asked him: if you project your own framework conditions on the chances of producing hydrogen in the Netherlands, will it not be very minimal what will be possible later, because there is actually a lot of connection with CO production?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u18	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u19	I immediately acknowledge that we are making it very difficult for ourselves to do really well when you look at the whole chain from which a sustainable energy source has to be created. I admit that immediately, but that is what climate change ultimately demands from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u20	Thank you. You see what happens; we discussed it yesterday. You have spoken for eight minutes, not four but eight. You give long answers and you see what happens. We discussed it. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u21	Mr Vendrik says we're late with nuclear power, but I don't see why we'd be late with that. First of all, you already have smaller nuclear power plants that you can put down much faster. Mr. Vendrik is a fan of windmills, I think. You don't just stand there. There was an article recently in Elsevier, in which there was a construction time of six to eleven years, if we were to implement the wish of the Netherlands and the European Commission. That's just too late, isn't it? Then we're not gonna make it, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u22	I believe that some time ago the cabinet announced a doubling of the potential in the North Sea for 2030. I recognize that from the Climate Agreement. That was actually already in pencil and everything is conceivable and possible to speed that up. I think there's even more possible, maybe not necessarily before 2030, but you'll be one or two years later. I do not know of any construction process of a nuclear power plant that will meet that deadline. On the contrary. If you look at what happened in Finland and the recent reports about the Hinkley plant, I think it's a very expensive and risky solution. Next thing you know, you're building 15 to 20 years, so I guess we're too late with that. I do not know what Mrs Faber wants with this, but for the climate issue, everyone knows that we need much, much faster. I didn't repeat the words of António Guterres for nothing. The big blow has to come in the next seven, eight years. I am very much counting on this Minister, because he is doing the first half of the coming period that is so crucial to deliver the biggest blow in the transition we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u23	I think we are simply disagreeing on this, because I am convinced that we can have a nuclear power plant by 10 years, and certainly those smaller nuclear power plants that are being built in the factory, which are rolling off the tire. They could be there in two years. In my view, it is simply not an argument to say that we are too late with that. Then Mr. Vendrik may point to the minister, but I think the minister has a hell of a job. I wonder if he's really gonna realize all that. But that's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u24	One last sentence. Listen to the market. There is not yet one market player in recent years who has reported to the previous minister and to this minister to build a nuclear power station in the Netherlands. 'Cause it can't be over. It's too expensive. Listen to the market, Mrs Faber, if you don't want to listen to the minister. I like to listen to the market and this is the message: it is far too expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u25	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the debate and the sitting for a short break until 5.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u26	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35814, EU Renewable Energy Directive implementing the law on guarantees of origin. I will reopen the debate and give the floor to the Minister for Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u27	Thank you, Chairman, and thank you to the members of the First Chamber for their contribution to the first term. Today we are talking about a special law with a particularly long name, the EU Renewable Energy Directive implementation Act for guarantees of origin. This is a one-to-one implementation of the European Renewable Energy Directive in national legislation. That sounds quite technical, but I can actually be very simple and clear about it. Renewable energy is very important for the Netherlands and for Europe in the energy transition. It allows us to take care of our own energy without exhausting the Earth. It makes it easier to become independent of fossil fuels and fuels we import from other parts of the world. And if we produce more affordable green energy in our own country and in Europe, hopefully this will also help in the fight against high energy prices. But then we need to know whether what is being sold as renewable energy is actually renewable. Guarantees of origin have been created for this purpose. Guarantees of origin are the exclusive evidence for traders, suppliers, customers, businesses and consumers that the energy they purchase has actually been generated from a renewable source. We already have guarantees of this kind for electricity, green gas and heat from renewable sources. With the introduction of this EU directive, we are also making these guarantees possible for thermal energy and for other renewable gases such as hydrogen. I would also like to stress that the certification of hydrogen is also an important part of the stimulation of the Dutch hydrogen economy. I will say a little more about it in response to Mr Atsma. Mr. Chairman. The system of guarantees of origin provides important information to the end-user of energy. We need such a system because we have not marked the electrons from the power outlet or the molecules from the pipeline one by one and are therefore not traceable to the producer. A guarantee of origin gives the end user certainty that the amount of renewable energy purchased by the consumer or the company is equal to an actual amount of renewable energy produced. Then I shall also come to one of Mrs Faber's questions. May I finish this, Mr. Chairman, before the interruption? Mrs Faber asked: is it an accounting or administrative system? Yeah, it's part of it, but we do need it. We see that consumers and businesses are very keen to buy more renewable energy for climate reasons or for price reasons. And then I expect the consumer to be able to determine in a transparent manner whether this is actually the case. That is what this directive is helping to do. The guarantees of origin will also help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u28	Actually, the Minister contradicts himself. He opens up that the energy that suppliers buy must actually have been generated from renewable sources. But on the other hand, the Minister says: no, it's an accounting thing. So what is it? Is it accounting, or is it true that the electricity they buy has actually been generated from renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u29	It is an administrative system that allows us to determine whether the amount of renewable energy purchased is produced in the same amount of renewable energy. This puts pressure on the producers of this energy to make more renewable energy if demand increases. So yes, it's administrative, but it is for a useful purpose. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik asked me on behalf of GroenLinks and also on behalf of the Eerste Kamer Group of the Labour Party whether something went wrong. We should have implemented this directive a long time ago, shouldn't we? The Netherlands has chosen to implement this Directive in stages. This is the last part of it. But he is right: a long missionary period and a House of Representatives that has not taken on many subjects have caused delays. Fortunately, this has not led to a hit on the fingers of the European Commission and we can now finish it. Mrs Faber asked me about the additional costs of the system of guarantees of origin. Mr Atsma also discussed in detail the prevention of administrative burdens on businesses affected by this. At present, we already have a great deal of experience with the guarantees of origin for the aforementioned energy sources. So we know pretty well how this system works in the market. It has also been discussed with companies and with the Consumer & Market Authority whether this Directive will lead to more problems or more administrative burdens. In fact, all these parties have ruled: no, we are ready and we can do so in this way for this directive. The total amount of guarantees of origin for renewable electricity in 2021 was 35 terawattures. That is about EUR 100 million at a price of €3 per megawatt, I say to Mrs Faber, who asked a very specific question about that. So we could roughly say that the whole system of guarantees of origin costs about EUR 100 million, but this also gives us a very effective incentive for the sector to actually shape the greening of our energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u30	I think what the Minister now calls administrative costs. But in these guarantees of origin there is also a whole leopard trade that represents value. I think it's special. I asked the Minister about the written questions. "The value of guarantees of origin cannot be clearly established, since contracts for sale are largely negotiated by hand. CertiQ, Vertogas and other issuing bodies in Europe are not part of trade agreements, nor are they aware of their content. I cannot therefore achieve a total market size in euros." I can conclude from that that the Minister does not know the trade value that goes around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u31	Not exactly on the decimal point. That is why I have now tried to give a rough assessment of it. This is the system of trade we have agreed on in the European Union. I think the most important thing is that, in the end, it is also meant to mean that if the demand for renewable energy and hence the demand for guarantees of origin increase, this is the incentive for the energy sector to actually achieve more sustainable production.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u32	The Minister then talks about a sum of 100 million. But how can we have already paid €12,50 per megawatt to Denmark in 2021? Then you get to 170 million. In the debate in the House of Representatives, your predecessor, Mrs Yeșilgöz, said that is a bit of a difficult name to pronounce on for me, about a price of €4 per megawattuur. She said, "That's high." How then are we going to pay €12.50 if we already find a lot of €4? I am talking about a one-off action of 170 million, for the Netherlands only, from Denmark. Then the Minister estimates the total size at 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u33	This is based on the pricing of €3 per megawatt. I wanted to answer the question about Denmark a little later. Let me do that right now. Mrs Faber has, quite rightly, personally put her finger on the sore spot. Through this statistical transfer with Denmark, the Netherlands has had to meet our goals for sustainable production. This simply means that we, as the Netherlands, have done too little in recent years to produce sufficient renewable energy in our own country. What I find reassuring is that Secretary of State Yeșilgöz agreed with Denmark at the time that the Danes would use the full amount we paid to meet our target for new renewable generation in Denmark itself. The Danish Government will soon announce what they are going to spend that money on. If we had only paid this to the Danes and they could have done something with it themselves, I would have found it a really ugly deal. Now, with this statistical transfer, we have really helped renewable production in Europe a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u34	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u35	But the Minister must admit that €12,50 per megawatt is a huge price. Now he's talking about €3. First it was €4, then it was €3, but we pay €12,50. In fact, we don't know how much we're going to pay in the future. In fact, we do not know what the consumer gets extra for his choice on the invoice he or she is going to get. So we really cannot agree to something that we do not know what the costs are and what we are burdening our citizens with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u36	I want to say two things about it. If we had not done the statistical transfer with Denmark and had received a slap from the European Commission because of the non-achievement of the targets, then perhaps the price tag would have been higher. In this respect, this was a very pragmatic solution from the previous cabinet to achieve that part of the Dutch contribution to renewable energy. Then there is the question of costs and why we are doing this. That was very well said in the contributions of many of you today. Due to alarming IPCC reports on the state of the climate and due to war in Ukraine and our dependence on the Russian Federation, we see very high energy prices which make many households in the Netherlands really in big trouble. That must be the wake-up call for all of us. It really wakes us up. We need to be faster with the energy transition, to be strategically autonomous as a Europe, to fight more domestic production for each other and thus also to produce affordable green electricity for our consumers and businesses. I think we'll find each other there. And yes, the system of guarantee of origin brings with it some costs, but it also accelerates the transition of the companies that have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u37	At the risk of the Minister coming back to it later, I have the following question. He now mentions Europe's autonomy in one sentence. I really have to refer to it as the independence of Europe. Current developments are, in fact, in stark contrast to the independence of the European Union with regard to energy supply in general. That was my first question. I have a second question concerning your answer. The ACM, the Authority Consumer & Markt, oversees the system in the Netherlands. That's understandable. But what about the rest of Europe? Does this also apply to the case of countries which are random, namely Italy, Hungary, you name it? And what about worldwide? There are global supply lines of everything that comes towards the Netherlands and Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u38	It is true that in other European Member States the supervisory authority also carries out the same tasks as the ACM in the Netherlands. So we have a fairly good picture of all the Member States. Mr Atsma himself briefly discussed the Eemshaven, near Groningen Seaports. In this debate, I should like to emphasise the following. Soon we will have a broader policy debate with your Chamber. Then I'll go into it in more detail. Let me just say this briefly. We are now under pressure from the Ukraine war and high energy prices for a huge acceleration of the energy transition in Europe. That's gonna ask a lot of us. At the same time, the Netherlands is well positioned to remain a crucial link in the whole energy supply of certain Northwest Europe, but also in fact wider. From our Groningen gas history, but also with our excellent ports and infrastructure, we have the best starting position to become the hub for green hydrogen and other green gases. In part, we are going to produce them in the North Sea, but to a very large extent we will have to import them from other parts of the world, not only to decarbonise our own industry more quickly, but also to provide our hinterland, for example Germany, Belgium and other countries, with these green energy carriers. I myself firmly believe that we will play a central role in this accelerated European energy transition, not only with hydrogen production in our own country, but above all with the ports we have. When I talk to companies, whether they are the ports, the shippers or the companies that are going to produce the hydrogen, there is one question: get a clear set of rules as soon as possible for how the hydrogen market should function, not only in the Netherlands, in any case EU-wide, but preferably internationally. This hydrogen comes from outside the European Union as well. I believe that the implementation of this directive is a first step towards the proper organisation of the hydrogen market. I will shortly send the wider policy package on hydrogen to the House of Representatives. I assume that I will therefore discuss it extensively with this Chamber. I would therefore like to underline Mr Atsma's contribution. The Netherlands has a unique opportunity in the energy transition, but now we need to shape the rules for this. Mr Atsma also asked whether everything can be traced back to sustainable production. Yeah, that's national security. Increasing international cooperation between the certification parties prevents double counting. Because, of course, that would be a terrible shame. I have just discussed with Mrs Faber whether or not the reality is paper. I think we have exchanged enough now that it is an administrative system, but with the aim of achieving more traceable renewable energy production. Mr Vendrik asked whether we should not exclude fossil fuels from the whole system of guarantees of origin. Yes and no. I am aiming with the cabinet for a final picture of a climate-neutral energy system. Mr Vendrik knows all about this from the Climate Agreement. At the same time, I believe that we need to ensure greater transparency in the short term, because a lot of consumers and businesses want to move to green energy and get rid of the fossil energy they are now getting. I think it can help over the next few years, that is also a wish of the House of Representatives to be even more transparent about what is fossil, so that a consumer or company can say: I don't really want to do this, I want to make that transition to sustainable. But I share the dot on the horizon that you ultimately want to move towards a fully climate-neutral energy supply. Mr Vendrik also asked whether the system should not be extended from production alone to the complete cycle. In any case, I think that is what we have to do for climate policy. In recent years, we have stared blindly at Scope 1 emissions. That's the CO emissions you can measure on the pipe. But the biggest climate gain is ultimately in the entire production chain, from the raw materials you use to the use of the products to the way you then recycle it and reuse it. In adapting the Energy Act for the existing guarantees of origin for electricity and green gas, we are going to cover the whole cycle better. I try to send that bill to the Council of State this summer and then to deal with the House of Representatives and then quickly with this Chamber. Then a number of other questions had been asked. Mrs Faber asked whether the renewable energy targets should actually be met. Sometimes we have a whole word game of targets, checkable goals and what it is now. I can be very clear about it. This cabinet is committed to the objectives set out in Fit for 55, European climate policy. We are now assessing the increase in those targets, set by the Commission within REpowerEU. We will soon take a position as a cabinet on this. I myself firmly believe that, if we succeed in the coming years, especially in the North Sea, but also in part on land, to really go to that 80% and at some point 100% renewable energy, we as the Netherlands and Europe will become more independent, that we will give Dutch companies the chance to make a profit model of this, but that we will ultimately also be able to deliver a better, more reliable and affordable product for consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u39	"Available and affordable." You call it now. I like that, because you didn't want to talk about it anymore. Anyway, that's a joke in between. You give a very comprehensive answer on the target rate. I appreciate that, but the question is: do we really have to meet that target? Are we obligated to do that? That is not clear to me. It says "we strive." "Strike" isn't about doing anything. It's just an intention. They're good intentions, but it's not like you have to get the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u40	With Fit for 55 we go to the situation that we as the Netherlands really commit ourselves to achieving those goals. So then it's not a goal, but then it's goals we want to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u41	Then I have the feeling that the Minister is again giving an evasive answer. After all, it is just about the EU directive that is before us. For example, we should have achieved that 14% by 2021. I believe that the other 26% should be achieved by 2030. Are we really obliged to do that? If we don't make it, will we get sanctions on that? If that is the case, then it is a very strange way of writing in the explanatory statement, because then it is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u42	The exact wording is not in my mind right now. I'm gonna take another look at that. The reason why we did the statistical transfer with Denmark is because otherwise there would be a penalty over our heads if we did not reach 14%. The implementation of the Directive in the legislative proposal before us is purely a broadening of guarantees of origin. It has nothing to do with that 14%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u43	Mrs Faber, you're actually out of order when I hear it like that. You will certainly have a third chance to ask a question within the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then my second term will also be shorter, because then I won't have to stir up any of this. That's gonna save you. Can the Minister explain the consequences of non-achievement? I'm also fine with you doing that by letter, because I can imagine that you don't have everything ready. But if you can do it now, that's fine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u45	I'm about to do an elaborate explanation of the raised goals of Fit for 55. Perhaps it would be more interesting if I explained in the letters I am sending about them what the checkability of those targets is. I think it would be interesting to discuss this with both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u46	That sounds like a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u47	Yeah, I'll say that on this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u48	Can I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u49	Mrs Faber, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u50	Thank you so much for your coulance. It's about the future, but I'm talking about 2021, among other things. That's behind us. Did we really just have to get that 14%? I'm really wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u51	I'm going to do my best to serve Mrs Faber in that letter as well as possible. Mr Vendrik asked about the broadening of these guarantees from origin to gases. What gases are those? The bill provides room for all gases, except gases consisting mainly of methane. So these are especially syngas, biogas and hydrogen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u52	What does that mean for blue hydrogen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u53	As far as I know, that's not in here. I will confirm that to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u54	Then Mrs Faber comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u55	Sorry, I'm back. Of course, that biosyngas is very interesting. So you're gonna heat biomass low in oxygen. It releases gases, including methane gas. But that's exactly what we need to get rid of. So I think that's a little contradictory. Can the Minister specify that? You can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u56	I'll be very brief. If necessary, I will return to it in writing later. Mr Koffeman also briefly commented on bio-raw materials. I'm here as Secretary of State for Climate and Energy. I think you just said yourself "that's a hell of a job," if I may repeat it that way. Indeed, I am faced with very great dilemmas. We want to get rid of fossil energy from Russia. We want to get rid of coal at all. We want to get rid of biomass, but you all want me to do that myself, too, that we produce enough energy for our households and businesses and that this is also happening at a slightly acceptable price. It can't all be done at the same time and it can't all be done from today to tomorrow. In the coming years, therefore, I will often present fair dilemmas with both Chambers about what I can achieve in the short term on climate targets and what the transition phase is that we need to go through. As a cabinet, we also want a bigger role for green gas and for biogas. In the first few years this will be partly from bio-raw materials. We really want to get rid of that in the shortest possible time, so that we can actually label these green gases as renewable and sustainable. However, this will not always happen from one moment to the next. Mr. Chairman. I have a very nice helpline here. As a result, I can give even more concrete answers to two questions that we have just raised. Blue hydrogen is indeed not in this bill, I say in the direction of Mr Vendrik and Mrs Faber. Again, the term "target value" is the term used in the EU Directive. This is always complicated with all the languages we use in the EU. The Dutch interpretation, but also that of the Commission, has always been that it was a binding objective, including the 2014 target. If you didn't make it, you'd get a year's grace to walk into it. The Netherlands has not succeeded in achieving this, and that ultimately led to that statistical transfer with Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u57	Blue hydrogen is not in the translation of the directive. I find it interesting to hear from the Minister whether it is true that purple hydrogen, i.e. hydrogen related to the generation of nuclear power, is in it. It will also be reassuring for Mr Vendrik to get a positive answer, because he likes to see confidence from the market in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u58	I also thought it was an interesting debate between the two of you just now. With regard to nuclear energy, I will also present to both Chambers before the summer the concrete elaboration of the coalition agreement, as we have the budgetary discussions with the First Chamber. Then we will also deal extensively with nuclear energy. Nuclear energy, I say to Mr Atsma, can indeed play a role in the production of hydrogen. I am now conducting a number of studies on how two additional nuclear power plants in the Netherlands can contribute to the energy mix and/or hydrogen production. Most of that was completed before the summer. Neither blue hydrogen nor purple hydrogen is in the directive we are discussing today. Therefore, when amending legislation, we will have to regulate the guarantees of origin for purple hydrogen. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik asked about improvements in guarantees and certificates of origin. Secretary of State Yeşilgöz, my predecessor in office, has announced that he will investigate the possibilities of guarantees of origin on an hourly or quarter-hour basis. We are now working on a regulatory change, which will at least make it compulsory to mention the country of origin on the electricity label. That is a first step for greater clarity. For the system of guarantees on an hourly or quarter-hour basis, we need to continue discussions at European level. But at least there will be a change to include the country of origin. The signals on the hourly and quarter-minute basis are good in themselves, but it will take a little more time to work that out. Mr Koffeman asked about biomass. On behalf of both the First and Second Chambers, I am working on a strong lobby towards the European Commission and other Member States to strengthen the sustainability criteria of the use of biomass. I do feel a bit like I'm in the small village of Asterix and Obelix, because the rest of Europe is not as far as the Netherlands is. Within the Renewable Energy Directive, biomass is considered to be sustainable. The same applies to guarantees of origin. Unfortunately, I cannot deviate from that, but I promise Mr Koffeman that I will continue to work for better understanding of biomass in Europe. Mr Koffeman also asked about the use of hydrogen. We have agreed that we will not turn this into a broad policy debate. But I'm going into it very briefly. We will be producing more wind energy on the North Sea electrolysis onshore in the coming years, so on land. At some point hydrogen production will also occur in the North Sea itself. Both will not be enough to meet the Dutch need for hydrogen. So we will also have to import hydrogen. That forces us to think about what we are actually going to use that scarce good hydrogen for. So, together with Minister Adriaansens of Economic Affairs, I am also thinking about how we can use the hydrogen available as best we can. We are also critical of the tailor-made agreements we make with the major industrial polluters. Finally, Mr President. All four senators have considered the unique situation we are in, a terrible war in Ukraine, with Russian aggression. There is a need to reduce fossil energy imports from Russia as quickly as possible. But the attention to the very high energy price paid by consumers and companies in the Netherlands is also very justified. When I started in this position, I thought I'd be Minister of Climate for most of my time. It is fair to say that I have been Prime Minister of Energy for the first four months. Fortunately, I come in very short time with the climate policy programme. So we're not sitting still on the climate file, but energy really takes most of my time and that of my team. We're doing everything we can to speed up the energy transition. We do this in order to ensure that the Netherlands is very well positioned to produce a earning model and also to produce traceable renewable energy for the short term, so that we contribute to combating climate change. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u59	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Unfortunately, he hasn't answered all my questions. I'll put them on the table again. The Minister admits honestly that it is an accounting system. It's a good thing he's just saying that. I'm sure it'll be appreciated. I had some questions open. The Minister is talking about affordable green energy, but the costs are already rising enormously. There are already 550,000 households struggling to pay the bill. I had a question about willingness to pay. The Minister states that there is a willingness to pay for this form of energy. My question was, how did he get that? I do not think this applies to the 550,000 households that already have payment problems. Then there is trade in the guarantees of origin. It is not clear at all what the prices of these guarantees are. That can be €3, or €4, or €12,50. So you're kind of jumping into a black hole. The Minister's talking about $100 million, but I don't think it's going to be the $100 million. Perhaps that doesn't matter to the Minister, because it's on the user's account. He'll have to pay the bill eventually. As the Netherlands, we have paid 170 million to Denmark. I asked the Minister if he knew any other institutions that would give away tens of millions without any consideration. I would like an answer to that. Then there is the 14% target. There's a whole theory behind that. The Minister is going to explain that further. I must say that 'a binding target' is a bit of a vague definition. If definitions are vague, this usually indicates differences, and probably also the fact that there is a difference of opinion between Member States within the European Union. I had one more question open. I've had the willingness to pay. I'm gonna have to look. These questions have already been answered. In any case, the PVV Group is pleased that the Minister is talking about an investigation into two nuclear power plants. He also recognizes that there are dilemmas in the field of our energy supply. I told you before, it's a hell of a job. In any case, it is a good thing that the Minister is talking about an investigation into two nuclear power stations in the Netherlands. We hope that they can actually be built. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I call Mr Atsma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u62	Mr President, thank you. Thank you in the direction of the Minister for the openness with which he outlines the dilemmas. We look forward to the policy note or letter on hydrogen. I have asked a number of questions which will undoubtedly come back to the policy on hydrogen. The Minister himself has already highlighted one of the issues, namely hydrogen related to the generation of energy from nuclear power plants. Mr. Chairman. In his first term, the Minister spoke about European autonomy in the energy market. I think it is clear that the hub function of the Netherlands can lead to Europe providing its own energy. That is something other than that Europe itself produces all the energy. Thanks to the hub function of many European countries, looking at the rest of the world, I think we can make that happen. And we may have to live up to that. In this context, I referred to the complexity of the system of guarantees of origin. It is precisely this complexity, which is also going to play a role outside Europe, that does not, in any case, prevent developments from happening. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. Because if it gets too complex, entrepreneurs, people and companies are gonna drop out. I think we have heard enough from the Minister about the guarantees of origin. I had asked one final question and it had to do with the position of the ACM in relation to the enforcement. The Minister indicated that the ACMs of the Member States are active in all European countries. That is fine, but we would like to have an indication of how it is organised in other countries, especially when it comes to monitoring what is happening outside Europe and what is entering Europe. We do not need to do that now, but as far as we are concerned, this can also be done in writing. I think that is relevant to this discussion towards the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u63	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. I call Mr Koffeman on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for his open attitude and his willingness to speed up the green transition. I also understand the fact that he does not always have an easy role in this; first here in The Hague and then in Brussels. We also see that this is a problem. We very much hope that the Minister will succeed in that mission. The point is, of course, that at the moment we are not here to assess the action of the minister but the proposal of his predecessors. We need to weigh that up a little bit more. I asked a few more questions. I would ask the Minister to answer that question. We've been talking about green electricity for a while. The Party for Animals is afraid that much of it turns out to be brown stream. The question is whether that can be classified, so that you really get clarity. There are a lot of households that think they are using green electricity right now, but they are dealing with brown electricity and they don't really want to. Can the Minister clarify that? I also asked how the EU's declaration to call natural gas and nuclear energy green energy sources is going to work out in that COO system. Is it true that we are running the risk of nuclear power coming here with a GPS certificate? And in what way? The aim of the EU Directive is to increase the share of renewable energy and reduce the share of fossil energy. You want more renewable energy to be produced in your own country and not just the administrative system to be reassuring, which does not lead to enough renewable energy in your own country. Mr Atsma raised the issue of complexity. Of course, this complexity also gives rise to fraud-proneness of CSOs. These systems must be watertight. Is that what they are and can the Minister guarantee that? As far as we are concerned, these are the questions that are currently being asked. Can the Minister just point out whether these SACs carry the risk of some kind of perverse incentive in them? You're hoping we're going to produce more renewable energy, while the opposite might be the case. So much for my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u65	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I call Mr Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u66	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Two groups, so thank the Minister twice. I was pleased to hear that the Minister is apparently currently negotiating a legislative initiative to incorporate scope 1, 2 and 3 into legislation. What this means exactly, we'll save it for later. I understand that this may also relate to the way in which CoPs are used in the future and how transparency is offered to market players. That's what we're gonna hear, I suppose. Mr. Chairman. In my view, the Minister spoke somewhat mysteriously about the role of fossil during the energy transition. I'll save that question for next week. That sentence was slightly mystical, so as far as I am concerned it can be dealt with next week. Mr. Chairman. Do I understand that the purple hydrogen in this bill is not covered by the rules, but that it can be part of the elaboration of the package of the government agreement, the 5 billion earmarked for research into two new nuclear power stations? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have one question in relation to what I call "the shuffle stream." I can only assume that now that this system is being expanded, and in particular green hydrogen becomes part of the system, the capacity of the ACM to keep an eye on this system... I think it would be nice for the Minister to say something about this in his second term. This concerns enforcement, monitoring and indicating the direction of the minister in charge on time when the system is no longer doing what it has to do. That critical function actually becomes a step more important. I'm just gonna assume that's settled properly. I'd like to hear that in second term from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then two groups here are satisfied at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that I was able to have this debate with five groups today. Mr. Chairman. I shall end the questions in the order of the speakers. Mrs Faber once again asked: what shows the willingness of consumers and businesses to cooperate in this? That's actually very simple. We see a growing demand for green electricity from both consumers and businesses. This is because people want to contribute to combating climate change or to support a sustainable energy project in their own country or region. From the business community, this is mainly because the customers of these companies want to steer the reduction of the carbon footprint of the products and services that are being taken. This shows that the demand for green energy is growing significantly from both households and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u69	Does the Minister really think that those 550,000 households who are already unable to pay the bill are eager to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u70	No, that's the second point I wanted to make. There are many households in the Netherlands, but also small SMEs, who have been having huge problems paying their energy bills for months. The war in Ukraine has greatly strengthened this, but it was already going on because the energy market has been very strong since the revival of the economy after the corona pandemic. Those people are only doing one thing: they would like to conclude a normal energy contract, not a monthly contract, but preferably a long-term contract with certainty, at a much lower price. I myself do not think it is of any interest to those people that we are discussing the guarantees of origin here with each other. They would like to see a quiet energy market in which they can purchase an affordable contract. So I think we should keep two things apart. There is a price for guarantees of origin, in the sense of the administrative burden that companies pay and also pass on to the customer. That's very clear. This concerns the €3 I referred to earlier. And there is a market in which guarantees of origin may be traded. That's where the market value comes in all directions. It's a lot higher sometimes. But that is a business-to-business trade that the consumer does not in principle suffer from. This is purely about the administrative burden, to which Mr Atsma also asked. In my opinion, these are acceptable, because they also speed up the energy transition and give transparency in where the energy comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u71	But before the war broke out in Ukraine, the energy bill already consisted of 50% surcharges and taxes. Then the government itself is the biggest price driver here, which also drives those 550,000 families to despair? Those are the minimum families. But the modal families are already entering the danger zone. How much further are we going to go on pushing up that price?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u72	Very briefly, because I think we can spend a whole day with each other in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u73	I also missed the term 'guarantee of origin' in the question. But in the end, of course, the question is linked to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u74	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. In the upcoming Tax Plan, Secretary of State Van Rij will really make a big move in the taxation of energy taxes. In doing so, we are really going to tackle all kinds of exemptions and the very low rates for large-scale consumption, so that the polluter, the user, pays a fairer price for the energy he decreases. This benefits households and small SMEs who, as a small consumer, actually have to pay a disproportionate share of energy taxes. Mrs Faber simply has a point. Part of that energy bill is determined by the government. We're gonna split that up more fairly. This cabinet, of course, has also created the Schoutengeld to meet the minimum energy bill. This is not a complete compensation for the energy bill that has been generated, but at least its effects are mitigated. Mrs Faber once again asked about the statistical transfer with Denmark. I did not go into the, may I say, insinuating part of your question, because there is indeed a consideration. We paid Denmark a lot of money. I thought that was complicated, too. Denmark will soon announce what they are committed to this 170 million. I do not know if I can report this here, but this is also due to more renewable energy production in Denmark itself. In this way, there has been a return. In similar agreements between other EU Member States, we really see a higher price than €12,50, so I think my predecessor here made a pretty good deal with Copenhagen. Finally, in her second term, Mrs Faber has appointed a number of vague terms from both the directives and my own written documents. I actually only like that, because I really like to be clear myself. I am also trying to respond as concretely and clearly as possible, and I promise you that we will do even better in subsequent letters not to use vague terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u75	The minister states that his predecessor made a good deal, but the same predecessor already found €4 per megawatt very high and €12.50 has now been paid. That can't be a good deal, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u76	This €3 to €4 deals with the administrative burden on guarantees of origin. The calculation of the price of such a statistical transfer has a slightly different methodology. My commitment is that we will no longer need such deals or agreements with other EU Member States in the coming years, because we will simply stick to targets and also produce more renewable energy in our own country. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr. Atsma. He quite rightly made the distinction between own production in the Netherlands and Europe on the one hand and imports of green energy from other parts of the world on the other. In the end, we want to be strategically autonomous as Europe. That doesn't mean you have to sit down and do everything yourself. That means trying to produce as much self as possible and that for the part that you import from outside the EU you are not dependent on one supplier, as we were today from the Russian Federation. We work together with the port of Rotterdam, North Sea Port, Groningen Seaports and a number of other companies on an international import strategy for hydrogen, ammonia and other green energy carriers. That's what I'm going to do with my German colleague, Minister Habeck. We want a joint import strategy for these green energy carriers and part of it is that the port companies MoU's, memorandums of understanding are sorry for the English term "sorry" with other countries in the world that can potentially become green hydrogen producers, for example Namibia, Chile, Oman and a number of countries in North Africa, which are talking to, and also the US and Australia. We are also trying to share information on this type of certification, i.e. with guarantees of origin, with those countries, so that if Namibia becomes, for example, a producer of green hydrogen that is very likely, they can use these kinds of directives immediately to align the rules of the game with ours, so that we can create as simple a set of rules as possible for that international hydrogen market. I will go into this more fully in the hydrogen policy programme. Then there's the question of supervision. The ACM is working together in a European association and also in a global association to exchange knowledge and experience on how to monitor those guarantees of origin and to apply the same approach as far as possible. The answer to the question as to whether the ACM will have sufficient capacity in the coming years to extend these directives is something I should not be guilty of. I'll make sure I think about that in one of the letters at a later date. Because when we come up with good guidelines and implement them, it is also nice if we have properly monitored them. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koffeman asked about taxonomy. That is a slightly different subject, but it does have some connection with it. As I just replied in my first term, this implementation does not see guarantees of origin for blue and purple hydrogen. So we have no mixture of renewable or other CO-free forms. We're gonna take care of that at other times. The taxonomy proposal will also have no impact on the directive we are now adopting together. This cabinet is very critical of the European Commission's taxonomy proposal. This is particularly true of the financing of nuclear energy, for example, or of natural gas projects. As you know, I also think it is unwise for the European Commission to place natural gas in a slightly too favourable position. This is certainly unwise in the light of the Ukraine war, but we are not going to find a majority in the European Council to reject that proposal. The fear that green energy turns out to be brown is the reason why, in this implementation, we bring green energy carriers under the guarantees of origin very sec, in order to avoid further mixing between green and brown. I believe that consumers and companies that consume energy are simply entitled to transparency. If they buy green, they should be able to know if that is actually green. But of course it helps to put pressure on the energy companies to fight more renewable production for each other. Your plea not to make it too complex, in order to avoid fraud, is very much in line with Mr Atsma's plea. You want to organise it as simple as possible, so that it can be implemented properly for companies and so that you can actually maintain transparency for consumers. Mr. Vendrik was looking for scope 1, 2 and 3. I am not yet making legislation in this area, but we are taking scope 2 and 3 much more into policy. We do this not only because it is sensible for the international climate, but also because the business community is now saying: we also think that we need to reduce much more in terms of scope 2 and 3. That conversation helps, because then we're going to think much more in cycles instead of focusing on that one tiny subject that we caught today. I hope that we can already outline a first direction in the Climate and Energy policy programme. I will work with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, who has circularity in her portfolio, to develop the approach for Scope 2 and 3 in the near future. If that ever leads to legislation, that is fine, but at least we are already taking it much more into account in our policies and in our efforts towards the European Union and the UN Climate Summit later this year. Finally, Mr President. Purple hydrogen and its certification can and will probably be part of my wider nuclear policy. If we are going to use new nuclear power stations in the Netherlands to produce hydrogen, I believe that the hydrogen produced should also be easily traceable. So we will have to make a good set of rules for purple hydrogen. I recently spoke with my colleague from France and my colleagues from the Czech Republic and Slovakia, who are having the same discussion. I said: let us make a clear set of rules for purple hydrogen together in Europe. If you are going to use that in the decarbonisation of the industry, then you must do so in a responsible and transparent way. Mr Vendrik will perhaps make a different assessment and ask whether we should even want purple hydrogen, but if we are going to produce that, I will do my best to do so transparently and traceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u77	I actually have a more administrative question. What if that choice is made? Does the bill we are discussing today provide the Minister with the tools to draw purple hydrogen into the system of POs via an implementing regulation? Or is there a need for a new directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u78	No, I'll stop by the Rooms again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u79	And then preferably via Europe, do I see it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u80	The discussion or discussion about clear rules for purple hydrogen is also ongoing in other EU Member States, so it is useful to do so together. The purple hydrogen that we may be producing at a new Dutch nuclear power plant may also cross the border to the Belgian or German industry, so you have to agree on this internationally. Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have also answered the second-term questions. I thank the Chamber for the input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u81	Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-eerstekamer-9.u82	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill next week. I now suspend the meeting for dinner break until 7:40 p.m.
