ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law of Members Ellemeet and Tielen amending the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Act concerning the influence of healthcare providers (35660). I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Tielen. It is good that you have used one of the most powerful instruments of a Member of Parliament: initiative legislation. I've seen Mrs Ellemeet a lot lately in Box K. From now on, we're gonna call box-K "box-C." It already has three legislative proposals in its name in 2022 and that is a special achievement. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport and her support. She is present as an advisor to the House of Representatives. I would also like to welcome the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. Today, the first-term procedure is being discussed by the Chamber. We are planning the rest of the debate at another time, in consultation with the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is no secret that GroenLinks wanted to rule, but my fellow group member, Mrs Ellemeet, does make it very difficult. She spends more time here than many rulers. That shows, of course, too, and I agree with what the President said: 'How wonderful it is that the instrument of own-initiative legislation is being used'. Many thanks to the initiators Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Tielen for this law, in which we have a number of questions and comments. Mr. Chairman. Last Monday we talked to a lot of people about the mental health of young people. There was also an employee of a closed youth institution in the hall, Kevin Scholte. One of my questions to him was: how can you continue to do your job well? He is a caregiver who really stands next to the young, who has a heart for young people and who really gets the best out of his job by doing it in his own way. His answer was: I can only do my job if you trust me, if you make sure I have the space, that I don't have to stick to all kinds of protocols and ticking lists. Kevin isn't the only one who really likes to direct his own work and who likes to do it his own way. About 20% of the people who leave the profession cared for, indicate that the way of control and the way of working are important reasons for stopping. That's the feeling that you're not about your own business anymore. According to the latest figures, about 120,000 people leave care. Those are violent numbers at a time when we're jumping over care staff like that. I would like to ask the Minister but also the initiators how many people we could have kept if we could have made sure that people could practice their profession in their own way. I do not know if there is an answer to that, but I wonder if we can make an assessment of that. If we had listened better to care workers, they would have control over the work for which they have been trained and what they are extremely good at. Of course, they know better than we do here. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the law, I would like to dwell on the role of the House of Representatives. Nurses and other healthcare professionals have been asking for more than 30 years for more control and yet we have only been talking about this issue for the last few years. We also need to take a good look at ourselves. I sometimes get the feeling that we are not listening enough to the profession. Mr. Chairman. Last year I wrote an initiative paper together with a number of colleagues, including Mrs Ellemeet. In this we dealt with control in the whole public sector, i.e. in the care, education and also the police. I attended Radboud University and I noticed how important it is that as a student you can talk about education informally with your teacher and sometimes in a formal way. Having control of your work makes you like the job better, that you're more involved. That's what I saw with the students and teachers who were active. It gives more work pleasure and hopefully you can also keep colleagues. Mr. Chairman. I also read similar arguments in the explanatory memorandum, which sets out very comprehensively the advantages of giving people, experts, more control over their own work. Perhaps my main question to the initiators is: what is this law really going to do in practice? When I paraphrase the legal text, it says that healthcare providers should allow healthcare providers working with them to influence policies insofar as it affects the content of good care, the content of their own work. How do we prevent these very long discussions about what exactly is the content? Let me give you an example from education. A while ago, it was agreed in higher education that participation councils should be given approval on the main lines of the budget, and what happened there? There was a whole discussion between governance and participation on what exactly are these guidelines. I think we should avoid that. The discussion should not be about what exactly is in the law. I ask the initiators exactly how they intend to deal with this. The Council of State also makes a comment on the definition of "influence." The board says that this is a broader term than "control" or "co-control." What exactly does that term mean and what exactly is this law going to change in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u4	I think this is a very fair question. We have also been a little surprised by a sentence on which I have now tabled an amendment. The law states that caregivers should be able to have influence, but this is then reduced to the point where policy is directly relevant to what a caregiver himself contributes to the quality of care. We have always wondered why the containment is actually in it. Mrs Westerveld is right that there will be huge discussions about what one should and should not have any influence on. My thought would be: if you delete that phrase, you can make it possible that caregivers can have maximum influence on all important matters that play within a healthcare institution. Why don't we take that piece out so you can stop that discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u5	I have not yet seen Mr Hijink's amendment in all honesty. I'm gonna study that better later. I get his point. The tricky thing is that, if you make a very long list of exactly what participation does or doesn't have an influence on or what in this case caregivers do or don't have an influence on, it can of course also be restrictive, because the board says: we have made a list and you can only talk about this. So I understand the idea of the proposers. They keep this very broad, so that employees and employers have to come out together. But then that good conversation must take place. What I also see in other sectors is that sometimes this also depends on the goodwill of the administration. You want to avoid that, of course. So I see a rather difficult dilemma there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u6	The point is that it is not as broad as it could have been. It's just a very small law, actually. It's actually just one real article. It says: "The healthcare provider, if he is an institution, shall allow the caregivers who provide care to his clients to influence his policies for the implementation of paragraph 1 of this Article, which shall then be that member in the Wkkgz, and then it shall be: "insofar as that policy is directly relevant for their contribution to the provision of good care'. Then you actually limit the influence to that last point, namely where it directly affects the personal commitment of the healthcare provider as regards the provision of care. So it's more about a new coffee machine or the question of what exactly is going to be done in a department, but not about the very essential things, like the question of what an organisation's strategy is, what happens when it moves or remodels or what happens with the organisation's organization. I think that's what it should be about, and you shouldn't have that containment in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u7	This interruption concerns the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u8	I have the law in front of me, so I also see the point Mr Hijink is talking about. As far as I understand, we already have co-determination councils, including in the care sector. This is an addition to that. You will, of course, have to regulate what the co-determination council is about and what this law does. I do not know if the matters that Mr Hijink is talking about have already been dealt with, or if caregivers can already talk about them. I certainly do not think it is a good idea to double that, but I will look very closely at his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mrs Westerveld is right to start her speech by saying that care is strongly confronted with all kinds of ticking lists and that one does not get a piece of confidence instead. Isn't that more of a cultural problem than a structural problem? And what does this law do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u10	I understand Mrs van den Berg's question very well, because that is, of course, the eternal discussion. A lot of research that the initiators mention in the explanatory memorandum shows that a good culture of participation often depends on the people who work somewhere and not so much on what exactly you write in a law. At the same time, you must, of course, legally regulate what health care workers should be able to talk about at least in this case, because otherwise it is only a question of whether such a good culture is being created. Those two should keep each other in balance, and that is far from happening in every place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u11	The question is whether we should settle something by law. Mrs Westerveld was just talking about "willful drivers." If you are benevolent and seek a solution, there is already a great deal possible and one can actually go anywhere. Does Mrs Westerveld not agree with the CDA that perhaps you should look at those drivers rather than create a structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u12	I agree with Mrs Van den Berg. Of course, we should also address drivers. But you would rather have an institution's employees be able to talk with the law about policy, actually have influence and control over their work. So I too think we should tighten up the law on that point. Then I think this is a very good start. As far as I am concerned, we should go even further in tightening up some of the laws. In our own-initiative paper, for example, we looked at how participation is regulated in different sectors and what sectors can learn from each other. I have a number of questions about this in a moment. So you do need a law, or at least a legal basis, which aid workers can rely on when they want to have a concrete say in the policy that is in place at the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u13	I think this could be taken up with the co-determination legislation that already exists. We are actually talking here about the lack of good employership, if I may sum it up. In October, in the debate on the labour market in health care, we, as CDA, said that perhaps you need to make a lot more demands on the supervisors and the administrators of those hospitals, because you need to start top-down. I'd like another comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u14	I agree with Mrs Van den Berg. I am also going to ask how, for example, we can strengthen supervision. Is the current way in which we have arranged this the right way? Of course, you want drivers to do their job well, and there are clear demands for that too. In a lot of places you can see that caregivers with their whole heart do that good work, but in a number of other places you can see it go horribly wrong. We certainly need to make good demands on this. I am very curious whether Mrs van den Berg can say that she may be able to do so in her own term, which specific proposals she wants to make on this point. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. I had started with cultural change, which the question was also about. I understand that the initiators want to bring about a cultural change and that this is why you do not necessarily want to lay down everything in rules. Moreover, of course, all institutions are different and have different sizes, different types or different cultures. How do we prevent this law from doing little in practice because it is unclear what the law says? I have one more question about how to specify your caregivers. We see a risk in that. In a lot of healthcare institutions, doctors can talk about the health policy, but doctors are also health care providers. Do institutions that doctors can talk to comply with this law? That's what I'd like to know from the initiators. And how do we ensure that nurses and carers can talk to them? Isn't it better to simply force the chief nursing officer, on which I also read a lot in the pleading, on all boards? Then you're sure their voice will be heard and so it doesn't depend on the goodwill of the driver. The second line of the bill is very specific about professional autonomy; caregivers should be able to practice their profession as they wish. In fact, it is very strange that we should have to regulate this by law and that not every healthcare institution has the culture to release nurses to practice their profession. They have learned for years, and they know best how to do it. I ask the initiators if they can give us some examples that show that this is going wrong. Can they indicate how this bill will improve the situation? What do we really mean by the quality of care? I also have a very specific question about this. In recent days, it has been announced that, for example, a specialist ggz institution will close. We have received a letter from the people who work there. They have sent an open letter which I believe has also been sent to the Minister because they are very worried. And at the same time, they don't have much to say about it. Then what does this bill do for these people who work there, who are worried about closing their institution and who are also worried about the offer? Because we all know that the waiting lists in the ggz are very long. Does this bill do anything in such a situation? The initiators have chosen to link control to quality of care. As a result, caregivers can in principle decide for themselves how to provide good care. But if you look at control in the public sector, shouldn't that go far beyond the quality of care alone? Should employees not be able to influence the whole business? Shouldn't we stop treating health care institutions like companies and leave all the power to the workers? So really the boss together. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response, specifically as to whether we cannot go any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u17	That's gonna trigger me: together the boss. Then I say, "That means going over the money together." I am very curious to see how Mrs Westerveld intends to organise the budgetary control if everyone can call for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u18	We all went to the ballot box yesterday to choose city councils. That's where you see what's happening. In the Lower House you can also see what happens. That's where we deal with the budget together. You do have the minister who's the executor here. In the municipal councils these are the colleges of B and W. But from the Chamber we determine the budgetary frameworks. In higher education, in which I have been active for a long time, the participation council has been given the right to vote on the main lines of the budget. Apart from the question of what these guidelines are, these institutions are very well informed about the question to which the money is being spent. That means that employees and students are directly involved. The board is, of course, the one who carries it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u19	I am not going to start a whole debate here on the Health Insurance Act, but I think this is very broad. A health insurance company has a duty to buy in sufficient care. If he does that and then there are people in that institution who say it's going to be done differently, then I think we're going to have mega problems. I'm just gonna stick to today's law, but I thought I'd give this to you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u20	I have a lot of confidence in people who work in an institution, in the sense that they really want the best and can talk about financial policy well. Because nobody benefits from an institution going bankrupt. In fact, I can see that things are not going so well in quite a few places. Couldn't it be positive, and be positive, if we could just let employees, and perhaps clients, talk about the budget? Anyway, we disagree on that. So I see, for example, in higher education that things are going well there. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask if you can require a nurse and care counseling board for all health care institutions of a certain size. Maybe you could give that advisory council permission, too. And how do the initiators and the minister look at a workplace credit? In addition to a health care provider on the board, it would of course also be very good if drivers themselves gained some more knowledge about the workplace and would therefore also be more present on the work floor. Mr. Chairman. A law stands or falls in enforcement. I also have a number of questions for the initiators. If I understand correctly, there are two tracks in enforcement. On the one hand, the Supervisory Board has an important role to play in ensuring that healthcare institutions listen sufficiently to the care providers. On the other hand, the inspection also has a supervisory role. Can the initiators take me again in the difference between the inspection and the supervisory board? When should which institute supervise and maintain? And how can we assume that the supervisory board in its work really has an eye for the control of caregivers? We all know that supervisory boards sometimes have close links with the board. In a number of cases, that can go quite well. But how do we ensure that they really take a good look at the influence of employees and talk to them? Wouldn't it be better to facilitate that? I have another example from education. For example, it has been included that the Supervisory Board may consult them twice a year at the request of the Supervisory Board. Shouldn't something like that be arranged here, too? There is, of course, the remark that you do not want to lay down everything in laws and rules, but perhaps we can give it to you or facilitate it in another way. I would like to ask the initiators and the minister if they share my view that it would be a good idea to have the members of the supervisory board elected by the employees themselves. That is to put them at a somewhat greater distance from the administration, but also to ensure that there is once again specific attention for employees in the various institutions. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two questions for the Minister. During the budgetary procedure, an amendment of EUR 10 million was adopted to strengthen control after the corona crisis. I would like to ask the Minister about the implementation of this amendment. Mr. Chairman. If this law is adopted, healthcare providers still have to take the step to actually give healthcare providers more control. What steps will the Minister take to ensure the proper implementation of this initiative proposal? Mr. Chairman. That was the end of my contribution. I am very curious about the reactions of the initiators and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u21	There is another interruption by Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u22	It is about how far this proposal goes. Of course, it's just one sentence. Mrs Westerveld is always talking about control, but the law is about influence. That's the difference between talking along and taking part. Control is co-decision, and influence is what I see as co-confidence. There really is a big difference. In the Health Governance Code, to which the proposers also refer a few times in the reply, proposals are made that go further when it comes to influence than the proposals currently contained in this law. I would like to know from GroenLinks whether there is a major risk. Are we not going to run the risk that we will have to lay some sort of bottom that is lower than at present in the governance code, no matter how terrible this whole self-regulation might be? The soil may soon be lower than the sector itself has already proposed. Doesn't GroenLinks think that's problematic?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u23	This, of course, affects the most important question that I asked the initiators, namely: what exactly is this bill going to do in practice and how do we ensure that it actually represents something? I understand Mr Hijink's concern very well. I asked them the same question. I agree with Mr Hijink that there is a difference between influence and control. That doesn't necessarily have to be negative. You're also very good at... I've noticed that in education myself. I was on a training committee where all you have to do with each other is consultative rights. In the meantime, that has changed, but at that time it was just a right of advice. It was our job to talk to the teachers about training and to advise the training board. The moment the training board listens to you well and the moment you make those good conversations, you may have more influence than through formal control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u24	I find it difficult that I do not fully find out what kind of influence GroenLinks thinks to be true with this law. I think that's a really complicated one. I hear Mrs Westerveld making very good proposals. If we were to sit down together, we could come a long way when it comes to democratisation in care, but that is not what this law is about, of course. I wonder how GroenLinks himself looks at this law. How far should this influence stretch? The law itself is actually quite limited. We could go much further into that. I note that the new Health Governance Code 2022 goes beyond the law. I wonder, then, what exactly is the added value of this bill, if GroenLinks itself is not able to indicate exactly what influence healthcare providers get.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u25	As I read this bill, it is a nice step to give health care professionals more influence on their work, of course as far as that affects their own work. In my view, Mr Hijink means that you can take much further steps and also look much more closely at formal control structures. I am very much in favour of that. In general, I am very much in favour of more control. That is also the reason why we wrote a comprehensive note on much more formal control last year, no, two years ago. So I certainly do not see this bill as the solution to everything. This bill is certainly not going to allow workers to talk about everything about them indefinitely, but I do see it as a good first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u27	A law must, in the end, do something and must be enforceable. You just made that point yourself. The inspection will look at a healthcare institution: is it going well in terms of the influence of healthcare providers? He's gonna get the law. If this law is passed, it says: the caregiver must have something to do with it. This may therefore be the case for the employer to take part in a consultation. So that could be that he's doing a survey once. If it is not quantified what good control or what real influence means, how can you ever determine whether a healthcare provider has listened sufficiently to his own staff? I don't see that in this law. I understand all the problems and disadvantages of it if you had to capture it completely, but we also have to be careful about symbolism, I think. We should not adopt a law that we will soon think: everyone who once called an employee actually meets that requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u28	That is precisely why I asked the initiators how we are going to ensure that management and aid workers come together about exactly what is meant by this law. One way or another, of course, you have to ensure that that good conversation takes place, so that the board of an institution does not constantly discuss the precise definitions with employees. In that case, indeed, this bill will not do us much good, but aid workers can very well use this bill as a handle. I have already heard a number of examples of what exactly is meant by 'exercising influence'. I therefore agree with Mr Hijink that much depends on how it will work out in practice and on the goodwill of directors. With Mr Hijink, I would also like to make sure that this bill does something in practice. That is why I myself asked some critical questions to the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall now give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, thanks also to the authors, including Mrs Ellemeet, who apparently has a season ticket for this place in box K. It's a good thing there's another initiative law. We treat them again with great interest and pleasure. I told you, the law is small. It is actually only three rules, but the underlying issue is no less important as far as the SP is concerned. It is about the influence of healthcare providers or even better, if it is up to the SP, about the actual control of healthcare providers over their work and organisation. In preparing this law, I had to remember a law that we dealt with in 2018. That was then about the participation of client councils, i.e. the rights of clients. This was about how residents, for example from a disabled institution or a nursing home, can influence the institution where they live for a large part of their lives. The outcome of that debate was quite disappointing at the time. We found that, for example, residents of institutions may have control over things that affect them directly, but that they actually have very little to say and have been told about the really serious decisions, such as a move, a large-scale renovation or the appointment of directors or supervisors of the institution in which they live. We note that the democratisation of care such as the SP, which would like to see, has not been achieved for years. A majority in the Chamber does want residents and caregivers to have a little talk about what is on the menu at night, but when it comes to serious work, for example, about the future of an institution or the stay in which people live, it is not really in question that this should remain in the hands of the directors. Today it is not about the patients, the clients or the residents, but about the influence of caregivers, the workers in the care. It is very good that Mrs Tielen and Mrs Ellemeet have put this issue on the agenda. We see that it is very much necessary to improve the influence and control of healthcare professionals over their work and their organisations. Too often they are not taken seriously. See the actions in last week's youth care. Think of the long struggle that is being waged for better collective agreements, better pay and less workload, and to combat bureaucracy. See the cabinet's plans to cut down on the nursing homes. In doing so, we are not listening to what nurses and nurses really think is important, to how they think they can best take care of their elderly. For example, see also the proposal that the SP has made here to look at parking costs in the hospital. As a SP, we put forward a proposal to ask the Minister: why don't you talk to employers and employees about why carers have to pay parking costs in order to work in the hospital? A majority of the House therefore votes against such a proposal. So if you're talking about control, about participation and about influence, then that's one of the typical points the SP finds: parking at your job is kind of a basis that we should be able to arrange? If the staff, the employees, can't even fight that kind of thing together, then we still have a very long way to go. Too often decisions are taken about the heads of healthcare professionals, not only in discussions we are having here in the Chamber, but also by the directors themselves. I was preparing for another debate to read back a letter from the Association of Drivers in the Care Department. If you see what they're worried about, it's a very different world than the world of nurses and nurses. I read in that letter that they are concerned about whether the addition of the lease car they have should or should not be part of the income that applies to the norming Top Incomes Act. In the world of some drivers in the care, these are the biggest concerns they have to deal with: how can we make more money and what do we do with the lease car? This while parking costs for staff are still quite normal, for example for people working in hospitals. This, of course, exposes the huge gap that still exists in so many places between the board and the normal employees, who ultimately do the job. Mr. Chairman. The SP welcomes the proposals by the proposers to include the involvement and influence of the care staff in determining whether the quality of care is in order. They therefore add a criterion to the Wkkgz, the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act. So they're actually saying that having the influence of caregivers should be a requirement to be able to determine what good care is. The question the SP has is what exactly "influence" is. And how is it determined whether there really is any influence? The exercise of influence is quite a difficult concept and will be interpreted differently and assessed differently by everyone. I also had a discussion with Mrs Westerveld about the difference between control and influence. Control is about the content of your work, and also about being able to determine and decide the content of your work. The point is that you can act on the basis of medical knowledge and skills and that not someone else, who has no sense of it at all, will interfere. That is why the SP always says that caregivers should be given much more power over health insurers. We also say that caregivers should be able to decide what good care is and that managers or insurers should not interfere. As far as we are concerned, however, control is also about the organisation, who exactly should be in charge of an institution and who should supervise an institution, and also about the important decisions that are being taken. This calls for much more democracy and a real right of assent in important decisions, such as, for example, on scaling up or moving. It is also about the remuneration and appointment of directors or supervisors. The SP believes that more control can prevent reckless adventures of drivers. Think of the enormous scaling-up that we saw in healthcare at the beginning of this century, a scaling-up where it was obvious that drivers were mainly engaged with even bigger and more luxurious headquarters and beautiful lease cars, but not with good care. Despite the good will and the good commitment, we do not yet see that democratisation in the law that GroenLinks and the VVD have now offered here. Can the proposers explain why it has not been chosen to clarify more specifically exactly what forms of influence are desired within health care institutions, and also why it is not indicated in what way that influence should be organised? How is this law actually going to increase the influence of healthcare providers? We don't see that yet. It is also true that many forms of influence within existing structures are already possible for a long time. That's what we've just been told. This is done, for example, through the works council or in other ways. Internal and external supervisors will soon have to decide whether a healthcare provider has given good influence or whether caregivers have sufficient influence on the decisions taken in a healthcare institution. But on what basis do they have to test this criterion in the law? Is it not still quite easy for a driver who prefers to go his own way to push through decisions with minimal involvement of staff? Mr. Chairman. The SP also notes that the authors of this law still make an important reservation when giving influence to healthcare providers. The article added states that a healthcare provider shall "enable healthcare providers to influence their policies implementing paragraph 1 to the extent that such policies are directly relevant for their contribution to the provision of good care." We are a little concerned about that, because I believe that there are two limitations in this regard when it comes to having influence. The first limitation is in the word "direct." It must therefore be a policy that is directly relevant to the personal contribution to the provision of care in an institution. Why should a healthcare provider only have an impact on a care institution insofar as policies are about their own contribution to the provision of good care? On the contrary, does not influence go much further than its own contribution to the provision of good care? Shouldn't caregivers and nurses also be able to influence the long-term policy of an institution? Isn't influence also very important when it comes to renovations, ICT projects, directors' rewards, acquisitions, mergers or a choice between large scale and small scale? For this reason, the SP has tabled an amendment to remove this restriction of the influence of healthcare professionals from the proposal. As far as we are concerned, care providers must be able to influence all aspects and as many aspects as possible of a care institution. We also believe that this amendment is important because the law that is now being discussed should not be a restriction on what is already described in the Health Governance Code 2022. I have read in response to the questions that we have asked in writing, and perhaps there is also a slight misunderstanding there that the applicants always refer to the governance code, but that governance code is still from 2017. We now have a new governance code from 1 January this year. Perhaps that will lead to other conclusions in the reply. The new code states: "The care organisation ensures that professionals can influence the policies that affect them in their daily professional activities, but are also involved in the policy choices about tomorrow's care." Now, of course, the latter is also a concept that you can go all the way, but at least it goes beyond the law as the proposers now submit. Why did the proposers choose this, is my question. I asked Mrs Westerveld the same question. What are the risks if the statutory lower limit of influence for caregivers is lower than what is supposed to be the practice, also given the new code? Well, there's a risk in that, isn't there? What if a healthcare provider, a driver, is just trying to dive under the standard into the governance code, and finds a hook in the law of the proposers, because it is less far-reaching than the governance code? And how does this then fit in with the objective of the law, namely to achieve a cultural change in terms of governance and control? How do you intend to achieve this change in culture when the soil is laid so low that everyone actually meets it and, even more importantly, the sector itself is already further ahead? Mr. Chairman. In the comments to this Act, the Council of State refers several times to the governance code 2017 and to what is said in this Code about involving healthcare providers in the policy of healthcare institutions. The Council of State also rightly says, I think, that a governance code is a form of self-regulation. I would like to emphasise that point once again. The SP is absolutely not in favour of self-regulation, especially when it comes to giving rights, such as the right to control, and giving power to healthcare providers within healthcare institutions. We see that self-regulation always brings the most powerful party to the end. In this case, these are the managers in the institutions and the financiers in the care, such as the health insurance companies. So these aren't the caregivers. But also the law of the proposers is ultimately a form of self-regulation, as we see it. The influence of caregivers gets a place in the law, but what exactly that influence should be is entirely left to the sector itself. The Council of State also points out the many ways in which care providers can already be involved in the policy of a care institution, for example through the works council or through compulsory consultation between the employer and the employee if there is no works council. I made that point just now. In many cases, the influence of carers, or even their actual control, extends far beyond what is written in the article of the proposers. How can the added value of this law still be demonstrated? Shouldn't much more be devoted to introducing effective control of healthcare providers, through this law or, if not, through the works council or otherwise? Finally, Mr President. I'm a little over my time, but I'm gonna finish. In order to underpin the usefulness and added value of this law, the SP would very much like to see some examples, just practical examples of what exactly could be the value of this law. What's it gonna look like in practice? What exactly is this law going to add? For example, the closure of hospitals against the wishes of the staff. Could that be a moment when care workers go to the Ellemeet/Tielen Act and say: ho, this can't go on, because...? Is that something we can see later? And are there other situations in which healthcare providers can resort to this law? Can this be done, for example, if they are faced with the choice of a merger or if the remuneration policy of a healthcare provider is under pressure? Let me put it this way: what situations have there been in recent years that we could have avoided with this law, because unwise decisions have been taken that could have been avoided if caregivers could have had more influence? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have pneumonia, which makes me a little short of breath. I'm fine, but sometimes I go after my breathing when I'm talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u33	No problem. We'll turn the microphone up a little bit; you'll need a little less effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u34	My group also thanked the initiators. Thank you for their time and commitment and thanks for raising this important issue. The corona crisis once again made it clear that policies were mainly made about nurses rather than with them, while their work was incredibly important during the crisis. Even outside crisis time, their work is crucial to care and will benefit the quality of care when the care staff has a say in healthcare policy. The aim of the law, the starting point of the legislative amendment, is that no decision is taken within health care institutions on the professional development and development of the health care provider without involving them. That's what I'm here for, of course! I would like to know from the proposers to what extent this is now an addition, extension or supplement to the already existing governance code, which states that care staff should be able to influence the care and direction of policy. Mr Hijink said the same thing. This also has added value when it comes to works councils and the various collective agreements which contain agreements to increase the influence and control of staff. In practice, we see that good managers, good managers who know how to create a good administrative culture and know what is going on in the workplace, are also very satisfied. When the involvement of managers and directors is high, what is going on in the workplace will automatically be listened to. My group therefore regrets that this bill is still needed, if the solution is really that simple: a supervisor who listens and a nurse or nurse who can do his or her work autonomously. Many nurses still feel unheard of and underappreciated. We regret that. We therefore hope that this amendment of the law could bring about such a change, but at the same time we also have a hard head in it. In the end, we see that the administrative culture determines whether it is good for an organisation. A good example in which employees manage themselves is of course Neighborhood care Netherlands, which has been an employer of the year for five years. The people there can organize their own work, make their own planning and have self-government over their own work. They could actually do that in the situation before the present bill, the legislative amendment. Finally, I would also like to say something about the overhead. We see that the overhead in many healthcare institutions in long-term care has risen to 16% according to the definition of Berenschot. At the same time, we see that the best-presenting institutions have a much lower overhead. Something in this direction I read in the section of the proposers, where they talked about places where there is higher satisfaction. The overhead is between 5% and 7%. For many years, we have been proposing that employees from management should again carry out an executive task while retaining their salary. This could also generate an additional 50,000 employees in long-term care. My question is, in fact, what does the proposers and the Minister think about that? Can we not, in this way, ensure that there are more organisations at the top that are much thinner and where there is much more self-government in the workplace, which ultimately also affects the staff shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to thank the initiators and their support for this bill. There's a lot of preparatory work in there. When we looked at all the answers, we as a CDA realized that we had asked quite a lot of questions and that there was also a lot of work in it. Many thanks for that too, because that has helped us to understand the drive, so why the initiators are submitting this proposal. In the note to the report, they state: "Although the usefulness and need of involvement of healthcare professionals is now widely recognised, the influence that nurses and caregivers can exert is still lagging behind." The CDA Group shares with the initiators the aim of the bill: more autonomy and more participation for the people in the workplace. Several reports endorse that, such as the ESC report "Getting started for care" and the report "Applause is not enough" of the Health and Society Council. The CDA is also in favour of the Rhineland model of industrial relations and therefore believes that participation and participation should be the starting point. The Council of State takes the view that this bill is already possible in practice. On the other hand, the initiators argue that it is possible to give more control and autonomy to the staff, but that this is not happening now and we should therefore regulate this legally. Mr. Chairman. Well-functioning nursing and care is at the heart of good care within organisations. My group and I have a question to the initiators, but also to the Minister, partly in response to the reply in the note. The authors rightly note that people in the workplace are under-appreciated in health care. They have too little autonomy and too little listening to them. But the CDA Group believes that the lack of autonomy and co-thinking with policy is more a cultural problem than a structural one. I mentioned that earlier in the debate with Mrs Westerveld. I will come back to that later. We therefore wonder whether the legislative proposal will contribute to a change in culture, or only lead to nice consultation structures and processes on paper. Structural changes are rarely enough to change culture. In the law it is also only an open standard. How do the initiators see that? Do the proposers not fear that there will be all kinds of additional consultation structures and that we will actually continue to use them with the adoption of the legislative proposal? This will result in additional meetings and therefore additional administrative burdens. As far as the CDA is concerned, we need to reduce the administrative burden. I have indicated in the other debates that we must move towards half the current administrative burden. I think Mrs Agema has just made a comment in that direction. Such consultation should simply be part of the regular team consultation. In fact, our opinion is that only less administration can lead to more possibilities to think along and more space and attention to the well-being of the patient/client. How do the initiators see that? Mr. Chairman. The bill will apply to anyone who, according to the Wkkgz, is a health care provider. It's an open standard. But the examples given in the bill and in the note on the report are mainly about nurses and caregivers, and not about, for example, activity counsellors or mental caregivers. Do the initiators not think that caregivers can sometimes have a counter-interest at the level of care content and in the primary process? How should this be weighed in the light of the legislative proposal? Cultures are persistent. For years we have seen a very large trend of about 15% in care. There are also clear reasons for departure in exit interviews: a lack of autonomy and participation, no perspective, no development possibilities. Despite the fact that we have known this for years, this has hardly led to any change in management behaviour, even though they should have a huge interest in keeping people better for their own institutions. I would like to quote myself from the labour market debate on 7 October. I started with a quote from Het Financieele Dagblad: "No one starts a promising career in IT and then keeps systems from the nineties in the air for a client with ideas from the eighties." Then I said: "I think that the word IT can be replaced by care: 40% of the time spent on administration through inefficiency and poor ICT systems, partly because of a high workload and employers with insufficient attention to control, perspective, autonomy and development." Next, I also have a quote from the letter from the Working in Care Committee: "The committee is still regularly shocked when it sees how few autonomy and development possibilities care workers have, how little HR is strategically employed and how much is thought from the roster rather than from the employee." But that, as has just been said, has hardly led to any change in behaviour at the top all these years. Do the initiators agree with the CDA that directors and supervisors in the care should take care of this culture change? In the debate on the labour market in healthcare, and just as against Mrs Westerveld, I suggested the idea that we should make more demands on drivers and supervisors in the care sector. What do the initiators think of that? The three parties involved, i.e. clients and patients, nurses and nurses, and board members, can all assess the primary process in a different way. For example, the relationship between nurses and nurses and clients and family is very different in the Long-Term Care Act than in a hospital. The Long-Term Care Act refers to long-term care relationships, sometimes for decades. How do the proposers feel that this should be dealt with in relation to this bill? That is what we find really very different from the hospitals. The applicants claim that the position of nurses and nurses is lagging behind and that they are not taken seriously enough. We share that. But what does this bill mean for the client's position, and especially the client in long-term care? Can the initiators explain again how they see their bill in practice, both in the cure and in care? Then the possible overlap between the tasks of the works council and the VAR. On the one hand, the initiators see this problem, but on the other hand, they do not find it a major problem. How does the Minister view this and share the views of the initiators? If you look at the Works Councils Act, you will also see that it is formulated in such a way that any independent entity that employs people must comply with that law. Then I also have a question for the Minister about the law on sound business management of healthcare providers. The government intends to strengthen the legal requirements for the management of healthcare providers with the Wibz. Can the Minister state what the purpose of this is, what the Wibz will look like and how the bill we are discussing today will relate to that? The initiators' legislative proposal has chosen the term "care-content policy," but the explanatory memorandum uses two concepts: "care-content policy" and "primary process." This creates uncertainty in our view, because it is really two different things in our view. Healthcare policy is what it is and the primary process is very much focused on how. The what is also often determined in professional guidelines and the how is often also determined in professional guidelines, at least in the cure. Is it not better that these professional guidelines should be drawn up with much more broad involvement, or do the initiators see that differently? Then there is the monitoring, and in particular the role of the inspection. The proposers explain how the inspection works; we were aware of that. But do we think that this bill for inspection is actually feasible within the current control task? I sum up as follows: the CDA shares the analysis and also shares the objective, but doubts whether the law will provide a solution to this problem. Finally, we would like an answer from the Minister to the following. At the moment, care supervisors do not really have to answer to anyone. Supervisors appoint directors, and if you're a supervisor, you don't have to answer to them. What does the Minister think of this and does she intend to do about it in the Wibz?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u38	It's about that last point of the supervisors. As I said in my term, we wrote a note a while ago entitled "Together the boss," in which we proposed, among other things, that supervisors should be elected. For example, it should not be the entire supervisory board but half of the supervisors. Would that be a good idea, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u39	I am very interested to look at this, even though I have worked in the business community for many years and I was used to the fact that one Commissioner was always elected by the staff or at least appointed or appointed by the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van den Hil of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the initiative law on control in the care sector, a subject that I am very much concerned about. For more than 30 years from the time of the White Anger, that's what we've been talking about. Coincidence or not, that was also when I became a health care worker. I therefore find it an honor to be standing here today. I would therefore like to thank the authors of this proposal, Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Tielen, but also the predecessors on this dossier, Mr Veldman and Mrs De Vries, for taking the initiative to put the issue of control in the care sector on the map by amending the legislation now. There have been a number of changes on the VVD side, but I would also like to mention here that the constant factor in the background all along was Engelina Kuik, our highly valued policy officer. Therefore, a special word of thanks to her. She didn't read this! Mr. Chairman. As we all know, control is an important subject for many healthcare workers. It also affects many other aspects of the labour market in care, from training opportunities to participation in the rostering. The influx of care workers will have to be increased in the coming years, but the flow of care workers in their profession through training and development is also very important. Task recasting will have to look closely at who is going to do which task. It will also be necessary to make better use of previously acquired competences in training. In the end, we strive to minimize the outflow of employees. That is why it is a good thing that we are speaking extensively today about professional control of care workers. It is a step in the direction of a care system in which not only the patients, but the patients and the care workers are at the centre. This will also improve the quality of care. It is also good to see that the bill is supported by different parties. I'm always in favour of more cooperation. However, I do have some questions about the proposal before us. Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I think it is important that the legislative proposal really contributes to a cultural change within healthcare organisations. The legislator cannot do everything alone; there is also a responsibility for employers and employees in the field to do this properly. That is why I ask the initiators how they see this. Do the initiators agree that the law will have to ensure that a structural approach and cultural change go hand in hand? Mr. Chairman. With regard to this cultural change, drivers of health care institutions have an important role to play, for example by being visible on the workplace to hear and feel what lives there. I should like to hear from the Minister, who himself was a good example of this, how the various working environments in the care sector feel how this should be shaped. The question that remains open to me is what good consultation structures healthcare organisations see on the basis of this law. What talks did the proposers have with them about this? Especially in view of the fact that the supervisor is going to monitor on the basis of interviews with health care staff, I think it is important that this is a clear picture. Mr. Chairman. In addition, it is important that administrative burdens do not increase. Healthcare workers are already overwhelmed with paperwork in their daily work. It is therefore a good thing that the initiators of this legislative proposal offer flexibility to healthcare organisations, but I would like to hear from the proposers how they intend to take care of this. We also need to ensure that small healthcare institutions become more overloaded. How can increasing administrative burdens be avoided for these institutions? With regard to the ongoing processes of control, I am curious to see the implementation of the Ellemeet/Aukje de Vries amendment, which has freed up EUR 10 million in order to work effectively in the long term on, I quote, "the development and implementation of plans to promote the recovery of healthcare professionals, in which (co-) ownership of recovery care, catching-up care and the possible scaling-up of care is an essential part." I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I would like to make a brief point about tariffs. The NZa sets cost-covering rates. We think it is important that any costs arising from the bill fit in here. I would like to ask the Minister and the proposers how the NZa takes this amendment into account in setting the rates. Mr. Chairman. I will end with a point that I would like to make in this regard. In particular, the legislative proposal highlights the group of nurses and nurses. We see that this is indeed the largest group and that in that group there is still a catch-up to be made when it comes to control, but the bill extends to all health care providers. The care for patients and the people involved is versatile. I would like to mention a number of them: nutrition assistant, motion counsellor, speechist, dietician, ergotherapist, anesthesia worker, welfare worker, physiotherapist, psychologist, analyst, surgical assistant, social worker, medical aid worker and of course, last but not least, radiological lab technician, nowadays called medical imaging or therapeutic employee. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to stress once again that sufficient control of healthcare workers is crucial to making care future-proof. It contributes to job fun and quality of care. But in the end, of course, I'm standing here in front of all those care workers. I know that they are committed to caring with great love and passion. That's what I've been doing all these years. Mr President, I always make a short poem on the subject of Book Week, which is normally held around this week, but this year is opposed. I don't understand why. I became inspired and want to dedicate a small poem to the topic we are talking about today with the title of this year's Book Week: Ode to first love. Ode to the first love Care was in my heart early. never left it. A great wish has always been How do we get caregivers to talk? Not by forcing only by rules. Growing the culture like this that control takes shape and so the care will flourish even further
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u42	Beautiful. I'd say tie it. There is, however, an interruption by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u44	Try getting over that, Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to an earlier passage in Mrs Van den Hil's speech. When you hear her talk like that about control and when you hear her call her that the whole profession, you almost get the feeling that the VVD suddenly favors some sort of worker self-government. We all know that, of course, it is not. It's not really about control today, it's about influence. What if it was about control? What should all those groups that Mrs Van den Hil mentioned have control of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u45	Today, of course, it is about the influence that one has on direct care. For me, that's one of the most important things. That's what people say. For the VVD it is important that we take a first step in this respect in particular. Of course there are more forms of control: we have a works council, we have a VAR/PAR, we have all kinds of things. I think it's important to talk first about the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u46	That is not very concrete. What exactly am I supposed to imagine? Is it professional directives, is it the spaces in which someone works, is that the number of colleagues you are dealing with, is that the workload? The big decisions made in an institution are, of course, ultimately decisive for how someone can do his or her job. Do you have to work in a large-scale environment or can you work small-scale? Do you work in an old and cramped building or is it all good for each other? Do you have a driver with a normal salary that also feels connected to his employees or not at all? Those are the crucial issues you should have an influence on in order to do your job well. Does Mrs Van den Hil agree with the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u47	Well, Mrs Van den Hil particularly agrees that an open standard is being given. It's about that open standard for a piece of care and the way you shape it with each other. The law is being evaluated. I think that's good. I think of it as a step. We've been talking about it for 30 years, and we can bring in all kinds of things, but we also know that everything isn't gonna work out in one go. That's why I'm focusing on this. If you have an influence on this, you can also influence your education and your schedule. And they really benefit the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u48	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u49	"An open standard for a piece of care." What's that? There's nothing anyone can do with that, is there? "An open standard for a piece of care." I have no idea what that's about. Does that mean that someone actually gets influence and control over schedules, about the team he or she works with? Does this affect the future of a healthcare provider, the strategy that is being pursued, on the appointment of directors, on the appointment of supervisors? So what exactly is it about? We really need to get rid of that blurry language, I think. That's not good. We must try to make it clear what it is all about here, including this bill. It's about influence. What exactly should this influence be about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u50	I believe, on the contrary, that if we put everything on an example-by-example basis, we will get those check-outs. I am thinking, for example, of the roasting. Then you look at each other: how do we care for that group of clients sitting at a group home, how do we shape that and how do I influence my schedule? I think that will increase the quality of care anyway, but also the working pleasure. I think that's very important. That's the first step for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you. Then I will go to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Space for the professional is important to my group. For example, district nurses can do their job well when they make a round around the neighborhood, preferably on a bike, and can make their own professional assessment on a house visit, but also so that the doctor has time to have the right conversation with a patient and decide together what care is needed. My group therefore welcomes the fact that this government is providing extra money for more time for the general practitioner, but also for the strengthening of basic care. However, this space for the professional is increasingly under pressure. We saw this during the corona crisis, among other things. The workload is enormous. The drop-out of staff is therefore large and growing. This also increases the workload. This is worrying, because the nurse, the doctor and the nurse are very much needed at the moment and also in the future. That is why it is important that we restore not only the pleasure of work, but also the prestige of the profession. As far as I'm concerned, controlling your own profession is essential. The way to do this is to rely more on the healthcare provider's professionalism. My group would therefore also like to stress that we attach great importance to the influence and influence of employees on policies within their own organisations, as this improves the quality of care. I therefore also greatly appreciate the initiators of this law. They give the signal that the voice of the healthcare professional matters, but also needs to be heard. However, we still have a number of questions about the instrument being used and to what extent it will actually achieve the objective. A number of colleagues have already mentioned this. We see not only a role for the government here, but also a very important role for the employer. I think Mrs Van den Berg said the same thing. Mr. Chairman. The aim of this law is a good one. However, it is not yet clear how organisations should organise participation, with the risk that the employer and the health care institution will still work past the care provider in making policy choices when there is no stick behind the door to achieve the objective of the law. We can already see this in the current policy on this subject. The Council of State also states that the involvement of healthcare providers in policy decisions should already be the norm. I hear Mrs Westerveld say we've been talking about it for 30 years. I don't think I started as a district nurse 30 years ago, but we talked about this in my day too. So it's a good time to finish this conversation. My group shares the concern of the Council of State and therefore wonders how this legal standard is going to ensure that the employer has a real commitment not only to allow the healthcare provider to participate, but above all to take part in the decision. I like to hear a reflection from the initiators. Mr. Chairman. With interest, my group has taken note of the internet consultation. It supports the point I have just mentioned: the responsibility of the employer is essential. There is already a policy framework to involve the healthcare provider, but if the employer does not actively make time and money available for this, then this does not happen. We would also like a response from the initiators. The bill does not now reserve any money to create this time and space. It is therefore very doubtful whether the employer will make this time and space. If this does not happen, participation will be regulated only on paper and nothing will change in practice. The latter is really devastating for the people who work with heart and soul in care. The initiators indicate that the costs are covered by the employer. I would like to challenge the initiators to get this right. So I ask them to better reflect on the costs of doing this properly. And what less could be done in the care to cover this? There are many examples of good policy intentions in the care sector that should ultimately lead to less administrative burdens. What are we not gonna do to make sure we can secure this? Here too we would like a response from the initiators. Then the execution of the law. As I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, we underline the importance of participation and, above all, of co-decision. But in the end, it is the concerns that need to be dealt with. They must be able to do this. Then it is particularly important that legislation is made that can really make a difference. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I would like to ask the initiators, and Mrs Van den Hil just had a very nice list of how the translation into other healthcare professions is going to take place. The focus is now on nursing and nursing staff, but how is the bill going to ensure that the other professions are allowed to take part in the decision? On this point, I agree with Mrs Van den Hil's very comprehensive list. I'd like a response from the initiators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u53	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik van de PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ellemeet just whispered to me that she is now expecting a poem from me. I was thinking more about my first love. That was a guy who was a head smaller than me. My second love was a cup bigger than me. Love makes blind in that respect. You would like us to trust each other blindly in care, because we always speak with a great heart and warm words about care. But the practice is sometimes somewhat disappointing when we talk about influence and participation. It is good that we are therefore having the debate on this today and that the initiators have made the effort to bring forward this bill here today. I would like to thank them for that, but also their support, which I have seen many times in recent weeks. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. This legislative amendment is intended to increase the influence and participation of all health care workers in their work. We know from practice that this influence and participation are often not sufficiently regulated. Caregivers find that there is not enough listening to them and that there is a lot of frustration. In the corona crisis, we may have seen it as par excellence. Who was the last to be protected? Those were the employees of home care. There is a call for more diverse boards, with more women and people with a cultural background. But nurses and nurses are not actually represented in a proportionate manner on these boards of directors. I do not think this will ultimately benefit the quality of care. And for years we have been talking about reducing administrative burdens, less indications and more trust, but that basis has not yet been settled. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions about the initiative legislative proposal. The initiators have chosen to include an open standard that obliges healthcare providers to allow healthcare providers to influence. I understand this open standard, because in a multifaceted sector there are many different organisations. A strict standard may not then be appropriate. At the same time, it leads to a number of concerns. Doesn't it become too non-committal or too complicated? Isn't there too little power of expression? Several spokesmen in the Chamber have already asked about this. Is it sufficiently clear to workers what is expected of them with the introduction of this standard? Do employees soon know what they are allowed to ask and demand from their employer? How are the reactions from the field? Have any specific suggestions been made on the implementation of this specific standard? The inspection will monitor the standard in the annual quality interviews. Can they ensure that the standard is maintained throughout the country in the same way as it is so open? Can I give you a concrete example of something that I think is silly? This is about employee satisfaction and client satisfaction in, for example, youth care. First of all, those investigations weren't always there. They weren't always transparent either. However, I do think that is the basis for knowing at all what satisfaction is and for saying something about quality. Never mind that you then have influence and influence. In my conversations with people from care themselves I hear about the many meetings outside working time, when we know that the workload is already enormous. The care has an over-representation of women. Those are often also the ones who take up the necessary things at home, and take care of them. If the culture of meetings is added to that, it is, of course, an additional burden rather than a reduced burden due to better influence. My question is: how do we ensure that the organisation of this participation does not come on top of all the other work? A number of colleagues have already asked for this. Is there a separate time schedule for this? Is that right? We must ensure that the work does not become more pleasant and that the workload does not increase. How, for example, can the inspection monitor this? I am also curious about the assessment of the initiators and the Minister on what this law can mean for the quality and efficiency of care. I can imagine that there will be ideas that ensure better quality and a finer working environment, but not necessarily lead to more efficient or cheaper care. So these interests are either colliding, or they're not colliding, and how do we deal with that? How's the minister looking at this? And is the Minister prepared to play a facilitating role in such situations, where the professional takes up space for better care, without money becoming the guiding principle? After all, we have all the power of thought and all the hands in the care in the coming years more than we need. So how are we gonna fix that? Mr. Chairman. I like the fact that with this bill, trust goes to the people in care. They know best how to provide good care. It is our job to enable them to provide that care. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. Not for nothing did all the MPs actually ask for this. As long as I know my first love, we've been talking here about reducing the administrative burden, more room for professionals, less indications, more equivalence and free parking at the hospital. However, it often remains very quiet on these points. In fact, with many of these things, the administrative burden is only increasing. A number of things that should actually relieve the burden of care, such as free childcare, a pick-up and delivery service, a laundry and dry cleaning service, and retraining and retraining, are, in fact, still very badly regulated in the care sector. The biggest problem in the coming years is not the money, but the people. That is my political conviction. That therefore calls for commitment, time and additional efforts to keep those people in care. I would like to put another question to the Minister on that last point. When we talk about more influence, more participation and more trust, how do the cuts in youth care fit in? How do the cuts around the Quality Framework for Nursing Care fit in with this? After all, good legislation and good instruments must be used to ensure that we do the right things for the right money. But is it not unwise to say 'you will spend less money' now, when we know that staff shortages are so severe? Do we learn enough lessons, from the recent past and from previous cabinet periods? That is my sincere question to the Minister. Thank you again. I've run out of time for what I'm sorry for. But I look forward to the answer. Many questions have been asked. I think that in the second round we should really take the time to discuss them very carefully. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u55	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. We are always a little more flexible with time when it comes to legal treatment, because we need to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-17-tweedekamer-6.u56	The follow-up to the debate will be decided with the authors at a later stage. I thank the initiators, of course, and also their supporters, who have already been mentioned a few times: Daniel de Rijke and Engelina Kuik. Without supporters, it is very difficult to create an initiative law. I would like to thank the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed the debate in a different way. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for her presence here. I will suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. and then we will start with the two-minute debate Main lines debate VWS.
