ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on the social unrest surrounding the nitrogen crisis. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Justice and Security, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate in a different way. The Chamber has decided to hold a compact debate with limited time. I would suggest that Members of Parliament ask each other a few questions. Members of Parliament may also use the space for questions to the directors. Let's get started right away. I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Politicians who have to be afraid of being attacked in their own homes, police officers who are attacked, violence against nature, fires: demonstrating is a great asset in the Netherlands, but this really goes beyond all boundaries. We wonder what action the Minister of Justice is actually going to take. I think we can no longer hide behind the local triangle. Is it prepared to seriously examine the proposal that D66 has already made? Can we make it a criminal offence for people to stay near the house of politicians? Those people have no business there. Is it not also of the opinion that tractors should be banned as a means of demonstration? Because you can't maintain it in a normal way. In short, what is the Minister of Justice going to do to put an end to this completely unacceptable situation? I would like to express my support for the ministers and fellow chamber members and their families who are directly affected by this in their personal lives. Mr. Chairman. I'm looking at the Prime Minister. Indeed, a breeding ground has been created on which these kinds of protests can flourish out of hand. For years, Cabinets, under his leadership, have denied the facts themselves. So you will not get away with saying briefly in a press conference: there is no point in denying the facts. You have to acknowledge for yourself what choices you have made that have put farmers in this situation. What was going on was the conduct of fact-free politics. The interests of the agro-industry were chosen instead of the interests of farmers. It is not by chance that the agro-industry finances the protests. Something you know isn't gonna work. By official advisors of the cabinet, a reduction in the number of animals in livestock farming has been called "unavoidable" for decades. If you are forcing farmers to invest in innovation and yet force them to go on that side of scaling up, then as Prime Minister you must now also play your role and try to take away the breeding ground for protests of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u4	Of course, we all agree that no one should break the law. But what strikes me is that from the mouth of the chairman of the Group of the Party of Animals, not one word of empathy comes to the farmers. The farmers are facing enormous difficulties as a result of this government policy. Their existence, their existence, is at stake. The companies, often from parents to grandparents, are destroyed. Some farmers even commit suicide. Again, none of that is a reason to break the law. But you're standing right here. You're filling up against the cabinet, against the peasants, against everything and everything. You don't have one word of sympathy or empathy for the farmers. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u5	It has been agreed that there is only two minutes of speaking time in this debate. If Mr Wilders had been in the nitrogen debate last week and in all the other debates that the Animal Party had had on agriculture, he would have always heard us say that these choices have put farmers in great trouble. I also said last week that it's very far-reaching to hear that your company where you've been farming for generations might have to disappear. That is precisely why our plea has always been: be honest with the farmers on time. The farmers have now lost valuable years, while it is, of course, difficult to switch over. That time has been taken from them, so they now have to go right through the bend. I blame the cabinet that made those choices. But in all honesty, the PVV has always supported that policy, when we knew that nature was so tragically bad that it would arrive at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u6	The farmers don't want to turn the button at all. The farmers just want to do what they're good at, what they've made the Netherlands big with. That's just farmers. About the protesters: 99% of the farmers who demonstrate do nothing wrong. They're not doing anything wrong. Okay, there's a very small group breaking the law. Those are often non-farmers, but there will also be farmers among them. The farmers themselves are the most affected by this. But the vast majority of farmers who demonstrate do so because they are brought to total despair by this cabinet, I say to my colleague from the Animal Party. There is a causal link between the government's policy, which says "we are destroying your business, we are destroying your family, we are destroying everything of you, you have to sell it, we are going to buy you out, whatever" and the despair of the peasants, and the fact that they are destroying the Netherlands, while most of it does it in a beautiful, legal way. You have no sympathy for that. If you were affected in your existence, your family, your business if you had it, you would squeal differently. Then you would also say to someone who says this: yes, but it is too late... Have some empathy for the farmers!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr Wilders is not listening very carefully, and that is of course allowed. The Animal Party has always warned against this. I understand the despair. So this would not have been necessary if, on time, on the basis of the facts, you had turned into a sustainable agriculture and gave farmers a sustainable future. Now the cabinet has made it come to this. Then look at the PVV. He's always supported that. Pretending that nature had been saved with a few nettles and a cow in the meadow, while we knew the facts were just lying there that it was untenable. Then you do not help the farmers by denying those facts and saying "do an air washer," which brings it to this point. Then you would have helped them by starting on time. So I understand the despair, but we have to be honest about the politics that led to this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Citizens and farmers of the Netherlands. In the last few days, I have distanced myself wherever I can from rioters and people who seek ministers and MPs at home. I'm not gonna do that again here. Of course, support for all those who are affected by this. I want to talk here about the other 99%, about the despair of the farmyard. Farmers running against walls in the Ministry. Farmers who are often placed as polluters, poisoners, nature destroyers and animal executioners. Farmers who reduced energy, nitrogen, particulate matter, ammonia, antibiotics and CO more than anyone else. Farmers who receive school classes and keep open days. Farmers who allow the carnival cars to be built in their barns; free of charge. Farmers who, after heavy snowfall, voluntarily wipe the rural roads where the government does not scatter so that citizens can drive safely. Farmers who helped massively in the floods in the South of the Netherlands. Farmers who manage our landscape. Farmers who are squeezed by supermarkets and banks. Farmers who got government rule by rule. Farmers who are declared undesirable. Farmers who take care of our food every day. Those farmers, Chairman, can't do it anymore. We're out of farmers. Those farmers cry at the kitchen table every day. Often out loud, but sometimes in silence. These farmers are now seeing how despair has turned into fierce protests. Those peasants who are now considered criminals. Those peasants have been crying out their desperation for months. These farmers are increasingly robbing themselves out of despair of life. Mr. Chairman. This desperation is not only among farmers, but also among many citizens. If we keep sticking our heads in the sand, this is gonna go wrong. The Prime Minister must now show himself to be a leader for all Dutch. Get the direction. Lead our country. Not with the knot. Not with a joke and a joke, but with compassion and leadership. For example, appoint a mediator between farmers and ministries. Get the direction. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do this? Finally, Mr President. As a Member of Parliament, I can handle myself, even if I feel a little less safe. I've got security. I have protocols. I'll be taken care of. I'll be fine. But who saves our farmers and who saves our citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u11	I hear the passion with which Mrs van der Plas speaks about the farmers. I am pleased that at the beginning she also took the time to express her support for colleagues who are indeed experiencing these threats. There is also something going on in the Netherlands over the last few days. I saw the story of a woman who was stuck in traffic for two hours on her way to her mother, who was dying in the hospital. There were ambulances that couldn't get through. A van with children from special education was blocked for five hours. Those kids were terrified. That is why I am asking this, Mr President. Mrs Van der Plas has much more authority with a lot of farmers in the Netherlands than I do. It is now announced that Monday the whole country will be shut down again: from all roads to the port of Rotterdam. Would Mrs van der Plas join me in calling on all farmers in the Netherlands not to shut down the country and to ensure that those vulnerable children can just go to special education and that those ambulances can just pass through? Will she help me make that call?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u12	If Mr Paternotte had been paying attention, he would have known that I made the call earlier this week not to block motorways. If Mr Paternotte had been paying attention, he would have seen that I have made more calls in recent weeks not to break the law. With all due respect to Mr Paternotte, I don't think it's a very clever idea for me to do that with him. That may sound very annoying, but I'll tell you the way it is. Mr Paternotte and D66 work in farmers like a red rag on a bull. I'll do that, but I'll do it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u13	I don't care who Mrs. Van der Plas is sleeping with, but I would really appreciate it if she did that here behind the cathedral in the House of Representatives. What we have seen over the last few days, Mrs Ouwehand, rightly said, were destruction, arson and blockages of highways that prevented ambulances from getting through. Police were attacked. Emergency workers were kicked with fireworks. Mrs van der Plas has chosen not to say anything about this in this debate. That may be true, but I hope that she will really use her authority to ensure that the country is not completely destroyed again on Monday and that more victims are killed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u14	I'm sorry to get a little harsh, but I'm not gonna sit up like a good dog for Mr. Paternotte. I have a lot of contact with farmers. Daily. See you in the middle of the night. I'm not gonna put every phone call, e-mail or app I send to a farmer on Twitter, no matter how much Mr Paternotte wants it to be. When do I say enough, don't do it? Do I have to do that 100 times, do I have to do that 1,000 times, do I have to do that 10,000 times? I'm not gonna do that on D66's command. I have a lot of contact with farmers. These conversations are none of your business. What I want to lose, I put on social media. But trust me, I have a lot of contact with farmers. Farmers do have faith in me. I certainly feel somewhat responsible for calling on farmers. I don't feel responsible for what happened on highways. That's not my fault. I didn't make any calls. I do it my way and Mr Paternotte has to do it with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u15	It is very nice that you send those letters and texts, but you also choose to tell the story about the farmers here. I would like to say it from all the Dutch who have been obstructed in recent days. I got an e-mail from an entrepreneur who says he lost $20,000 because of all those blockages. People say they can't provide their care, they can't go to the hospital. These people also want to hear from you that you say very clearly: don't do it. It is nice that you say that directly to farmers, but if you use the stage here in the House of Representatives only to tell the side of farmers who are worried, what I understand, you do not do justice to all those ordinary, other Dutch people who are worried about their safety because of the actions of the last few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u16	Yeah, I don't know... I have often said "I think I speak Chinese occasionally," because apparently people do not understand me. I've made that call a million times, on social media. Mr Paternotte can come to the interrupting microphone ten more times to tell me to do it. Sure, I sympathize with those people. I literally said in a video that there is a high risk that people will be hit hard when your highways are blocked in such a way that no aid workers can pass. In relation to that, I read a terrible story in the Stentor today about a gentleman who was dying in the hospital. I want to constantly call on the farmers not to do so, but I am not going to put videos on Mr Paternotte's command or anyone else's because they think I should do so. I'll do it my way. I do that on social media whenever I think it's necessary. Meanwhile, I have a lot of contact with the farmers in the background. And again, Mr Paternotte will simply have to deal with it. Putting me in a frame like I wouldn't care or that I don't mind, I throw far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr Van Haga, Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u18	We both have a great deal of contact with farmers and also with the other entrepreneurs. Mr Paternotte says 'yes, there are entrepreneurs who suffer from it'. I think that our main sympathy goes out to the farmers who are at an end and do not know what they are doing anymore, to farmers. I count six, but I may have missed a few who hanged themselves. Then I would like to know from Mrs van der Plas how she feels that those same farmers, who no longer have any perspective, who are being destroyed by this government, who at some point no longer see a way out, are being demonized by a lot of people in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u19	Well, I am very pleased with this question, because that gives me the opportunity to say something about it. Mr Paternotte just mentioned an entrepreneur who lost €20,000 due to a traffic jam. That's really annoying. I understand that and I think it is very bad, but there are hundreds of farmers who not only lose tons or millions, but also their land and their way of life. They're entrepreneurs, too. I would like the parties in the Chamber who stand up for entrepreneurs to stand up for them too. It goes even further with these entrepreneurs. It is indeed what Mr Van Haga says: the number of suicides, or suicides, is increasing. I got an e-mail from a woman who writes that in the last six days, three farmers have robbed themselves of their lives. That too is terrible. I would like to add my voice to what Mr Wilders said: there can also be empathy. Of course we need to talk about safety here. That goes without saying. There's really something going on on those farmers' heirs. That's gonna be heavy, heavily underestimated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u20	I think the conclusion is that we all think you should abide by the law. We have all called for this, and no one is calling on us to destroy the place, to cross borders or to violate criminal law. But in this quadrant on the right, I see people who are sympathetic to entrepreneurs and who support these farmers. Let us be clear: after the farmers, the builders, the fishermen and all the other SMEs are next. So, for God's sake, let us resolve this in a normal way and prevent us from demonizing and destroying the farmers now, because after that the gate of the dam is. We've seen what happened in corona time: hairdressers, catering entrepreneurs, everyone goes through the well. And then we have nothing left, then we have no one to pay taxes for all the salaries on this side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr Van Haga mentions fishermen. He says it's their turn. Well, it's the fishermen's turn. The number of suicides is also huge in the fisheries sector. There are a lot of cutters on shore, because this cabinet has so far refused to support them financially, where other countries do. The fishermen are also completely destroyed in the framing as animal executioners. Yeah, I'm worried too. In history revolutions always began with a peasant uprising. You can just read that back in the history books. I've warned you about it before. I'm very worried about what's going on in society right now. That's why I'm saying don't put the head in the sand, because there's a lot of slumber. That is why I have called on the Prime Minister to show himself to be a leader for all the Dutch and to make the country whole again. That might take a long time. It's possible. A lot's happened, too, but it's possible. That is why I would like to see a mediator between farmers and ministries. Someone's got to sit in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u22	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u23	I am very pleased with this last remark. We see in all totalitarian regimes, whether it was Pol Pot or Stalin, that it starts with an attack on the peasants. I would like it very much if we were to pull out the sting today and Prime Minister Rutte would show himself to be a leader and say: boys, we are going to do it all in a different way; we are going to leave these farmers alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u24	Yeah, look, obviously, I don't want to make a comparison with Pol Pot. That is, of course, a terrible situation. We're not gonna do that. But the Prime Minister is a good connoisseur of the history books, so I think he recognizes himself in the picture that it often starts with uprisings or unrest in the countryside. That'll skip to the city. We don't live in another world. The Party for Animals often says we don't have planet B. No, we don't. It's the same world, the same earth, with the same history. I don't think we should ignore that. I'm not saying it's happening, but I think we should look at our collective memory and history. How can things run and what do we learn from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u25	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mrs van der Plas and I have known each other for a long time, so I know how she stands up for the farmers. I respect that. She just said, "I'm not saying it's happening either." But Mr Van Haga suggested that this intervention in agriculture, which by the way does not come out of the sky, because we have known for 40 years that it has to be done, there is a prelude that everyone in the Netherlands will be expropriated and that we will be faced with a totalitarian regime. I think it's okay if Mrs. Van der Plas doesn't just say that Pol Pot is going a little too far for her. Mr Van Haga says that this would be the harbinger of a totalitarian regime and that it is going to affect all the citizens of the Netherlands, while protecting nature and the transition of agriculture. It would be good if Mrs Van der Plas made it clear that she did not support that part of what Mr Van Haga said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u27	Yes, chairman, it is as if Caroline van der Plas has a button on her back, on which everyone can press: distance; distance from this. Press the button: distance from that. I'm not gonna do that! I'm just not gonna do that. I'm talking about my own words. What Mr Van Haga just said is up to Mr Van Haga. You must ask Mr Van Haga that question. It's bullshit, isn't it? Okay, everybody come forward and ask me what I want to distance myself from. Everything in the world? I'm just not gonna do that. I'm done with that. I'm gonna stand back whenever I want to distance myself. I do that very publicly, on Twitter. Anyone can see that. I'm not gonna do that here on command. I'm just quitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u28	Sure, Mrs. Van der Plas isn't gonna do anything on command. She shouldn't start with that either. I just want to tell her that Mr. van Haga is rubbing everything on her. I think it's good to actively distance yourself from that. Of course Mrs Van der Plas herself is talking about whether or not she does, but if you only respond with "Pol Pot goes a little too far for me," then you agree with the rest. Of course, it is up to Mrs van der Plas to make that choice, but now it seems as if she is also suggesting that we are moving towards a totalitarian regime if we turn agriculture into a sustainable agriculture in the future. I totally agree with her that it shouldn't have been like this. We differ only in terms of analysis, but for farmers this is very far-reaching. Either you let this happen to all Dutch people, or you say: no, of course it's not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u29	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr President, I am also very sorry about this. Because I don't want to do something... it's like I have a button that everyone can press, and then I have to say, "I'm gonna distance myself from it" or "I'm gonna distance myself from it." If I don't, because I just don't do it on command, then the suggestion is immediately raised: you see, she doesn't distance, she thinks so too. That's what I'm resisting. It's bothering me. I get a lot of e-mails about that, just like last week. Terrible e-mails I get about that. For Mr Klaver also says it, and Mrs Ouwehand says it. People see a free pass in there to approach me in a horrible way. 'Cause there's that side too. I have a son living at home, alone, all week. Mr President, I really want you to be more strict about this, because I am not going to let this happen. If I say that I do not distance myself, because I do not do so on command, then I do not want the image to be awakened that I do not distance myself from it and that I therefore agree with it: so do you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u31	Finally. I find it terrible when Mrs van der Plas is dealing with intimidation, threats and other unwanted behaviour. If that is the case, then I sympathize and speak out against it. Let me just put it to the simple question: do you agree with everything that Mr Van Haga has just said and sketches?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u32	I'm not going into that. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr President, I am also standing here on the occasion of Mr Van Haga's interruption. I also realise that this is a comment by Mr Van Haga and not a comment by Mrs Van der Plas. My only point here is that these kinds of words, these kinds of claims, also here on the interrupt microphone, have an effect on the tone of this debate and have an effect on society, where anger and anger prevail. I am going to say something about this in terrible ways, but I think that we here, even if we make our contribution to the interrupting microphone, have our responsibility to conduct the debate in a normal way and to use normal terms and expressions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mrs Hermans, I am not President of the Chamber. Mr President, I am not President of the Chamber. You're the chairman. Mrs Hermans is now going to address me to something that Mr Van Haga says and which Mrs Hermans does not like, which I have also responded to. But that's not my job at all. That is what Mrs Hermans must say to the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr. Chairman. I will also tell the President and the Members of Parliament present. You happen to be behind the chair. I specifically said: Mrs van der Plas is standing there, getting an interruption, they are not her words, it is not her question. So that's not what I'm talking about. I am concerned that, as Members of Parliament, we also have our responsibility here behind the interrupting microphone for the interruptions we are conducting and the questions we are asking each other. I'm not even asking for a reaction; it's just a statement I wanted to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Hermans, you will then have to go to the microphone and say: Mr President, what Mr Van Haga has just said, I am opposed to that, because I simply cannot do that in this Chamber; Madam President, I would ask you to intervene. But Mrs Hermans goes to the microphone and says that to me. She says, "You just happen to be standing there." And she's looking at me. I was afraid we'd get this again. Let us now have the debate on what has happened this week, what we do and do not think of the farmers' actions and what we do and do not think of the farmers. This is gonna go all over again. We've only been at it for 25 minutes and the whole of the Netherlands is already thinking: there they go again, there in that Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u38	Yeah, shall we continue? I'll take a look at Mrs Hermans. Mr. Van Haga, you have enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yes, Mr President, let us indeed continue with the debate. If Mrs Van der Plas has taken this as a question to her, then I will take it back, because that is in no way my intention. I would like to distance myself from this and comment on the interruption of Mr Van Haga, I say to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you. No, Mr. Van Haga, we're moving on now. We'll talk about you later. I don't want to. We are now going to listen to Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. I understand the emotions are heated, but let's also focus on what it's about. We have witnessed events over the last few days that have nothing to do with the right to demonstrate. In online groups, rioters call for civil war. Life-threatening situations occur on the highways. Nature is deliberately destroyed. Colleagues and directors and their families are being watched, threatened and intimidated. It's unacceptable. I ask the Minister to draw a line and to act. My questions to the Minister of Justice and Security are therefore the following. Is the police prepared for new dangerous actions, including the action announced on Monday? Is the Minister prepared to apply the football law to the convicted persons? Can the Minister investigate whether radicalised rioters can be classified as criminal groups? Every day that a border is crossed is one on which it is accepted that this border will move. That's why it needs to end as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. However, this debate also takes a look at what is still necessary in the coming period to restore peace in the country. Not so long ago, Prime Minister Rutte called nitrogen the biggest political crisis in his career. The harsh conclusion is that he has completely out of control. There is no clarity or a plan for farmers who are now living in great uncertainty and a courageous minister takes the chestnuts out of the fire for him, while the Prime Minister kept himself invisible. Leadership isn't just using big words when it's already gone wrong, but doing everything in your power to prevent it from going wrong. I therefore urge the Prime Minister to draw the final responsibility in this nitrogen dossier in these times of great unrest. That is necessary, not only in word, but also in action. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Hay bales on fire, life-threatening blockades on highways, farmers hitting police vans with hammers and lead pipes, breaking a tractor through a cordon and going on the road to free locked farmers. I hear myself saying it, and then I think, "This can't be happening." But it's true. This reprehensible behavior really has to stop. It is an attack on the foundations of our rule of law, of our democratic society. This is not who we are either, because in the Netherlands we deal with difficult problems together. We're gonna have a conversation, and we're gonna talk about it. Mr. Chairman. I think what has happened over the past few days is terrible for all those farmers who are angry and concerned, but who are not acting like an idiot. They understand that you don't come to a MP or minister's house to get a story. They understand that's beyond all decency. Those who understand that it's totally drunk that cops have to run for their safety. Those farmers are angry and concerned, but demonstrate within the rules of the law. They want to start the conversation. They need to know that we can continue to have that conversation and want to continue. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to express my appreciation for the police and everyone working day in, day out to keep people safe. That starts with knowing what's going on and picking up signals that are important for that. And that ends with intervention and punishment that you don't accept. When it comes to knowing what is going on, we have various organisations involved. The NCTV is one of them. There is now a discussion about a legal task for the NCTV. It's important to get that done quickly. My question to the Minister is: have you run into it in recent days that it is not currently settled? Then the intervention. We all agree that we need to keep our hands off police and paramedics. For the VVD, therefore, if you use force against them, we find community service insufficient. There's a law in the Upper House right now to do something about it. My question to the Minister is: would there be any possibility of broadening it? Because threatening a journalist, threatening a minister, threatening a member of parliament, I really think that goes too far. Finally, Mr President. I wouldn't want anything more than to stop the behavior and events of the past few days and start the conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. Mr Heerma, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u45	Anyway, I'd like to join the question about the community service ban. It's interesting to see if the law can be widened. But my question is actually about Mrs Hermans' last sentence. Apart from the fact that where there is a cross-border approach, the importance of restarting the conversation is very great. Now former Minister Veerman has put forward a proposal for a kind of conciliation committee in the Volkskrant and in the ND. Not to question the goals and not to change the plans, but to get the conversation going again and normalize. He proposed that an independent president resume that discussion and normalise relations. My group believes that this is a very good idea, but also that it is crucial to restore normality and to get back to the table. I wonder how the VVD Group looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u46	Yes. It was not for nothing that I made an important point of my input that I felt terrible for all those farmers who are rightly angry and concerned. There's a lot coming for them. These are farmers who demonstrate within the rules of the law and who know that you will come to solutions in the conversation, in the dialogue. I think that such a proposal to initiate the discussion is a good proposal. I would like to add that the agreements we have made, the policies and frameworks we have established are in place. Mr Heerma also said that. They are really aimed at getting started, at getting this area-oriented approach off the ground and at starting the conversation with farmers, provinces, the cabinet and all the organisations involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u47	Does the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats share the view that this should be done as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u48	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u49	For the Acts: it's former Minister Veerman. But that aside. My question to Mrs Hermans. Three years ago, Prime Minister Rutte, the leader of the VVD, said that nitrogen will be the biggest crisis in my political career. Meanwhile, we are three years ahead and there is a nitrogen plan, but there is no plan or clarity for the farmers. At your conference, a motion was filed for 130 kilometers an hour. There doesn't seem to be much support for that. Do you also think that there has been no directing and leadership of the Prime Minister when it comes to the nitrogen dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u50	Over the past three years, we have not managed to achieve the reduction if we might have wanted it. We simply have to note that we now have to intervene hard for our nature, especially for a future for farmers. I agree with Mrs Kuik when she says that the perspective for farmers is still insufficient. What is the future of agriculture and the agricultural sector in the Netherlands? There is work to be done on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u51	I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked a simple question. It was like this. Prime Minister Rutte, the leader of the VVD, said three years ago: nitrogen will be the biggest crisis in my political career. If we find, as Mrs Hermans has just said, that nothing has happened in recent years and we do not yet have a plan or clarity for the farmers, do you think that the Prime Minister has taken sufficient control of this nitrogen dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u52	I didn't say nothing happened. I said that it was not fast enough, or that we have not yet achieved sufficient results. I believe that this cabinet, with the coalition agreement that lies ahead, has a great task and a great responsibility. I see a Minister for Nature and Nitrogen working very hard, with all the consequences at present, including for her personal life and that of her family. From this point on, I would like to wish her and her family, and by the way Mr Boswijk, much strength. That's what I'm seeing right now, and that's what I'm focusing on. I think we should do everything we can to get it done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u53	Yes, I also note that Minister Van der Wal is taking the chestnuts out of the fire and moving forward in the nitrogen debate. I sympathize with the families, too. However, I do not get an answer to my question and unfortunately I can only conclude that Mrs Hermans agrees with me that the Prime Minister has been absent, has been invisible and is not currently directing this hot topic of crisis. I find that, with you, disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u54	This conclusion cannot be drawn by Mrs Kuik in any way from the words I have spoken. I said what I see: a cabinet that is working. Directing, coordinating and taking the lead can be done in many ways, in front of and behind the scenes. I see, above all, a cabinet that is now a force for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u55	I have a bit of a déjà vu from the corona time. Then the VVD was also very hard and very machine busy to entrepreneurs... You must have been a barber, a catering entrepreneur or a gym holder. Then you were crushed by the device. I have a bit of a déjà vu from the supplemental affair. You must have just been someone who's now a duped. Then you were crushed by the device. Now we see 500,000 people working in the farm being crushed on the basis of something that has no basis, namely the whole nitrogen problem. My question concerns the following. I had really hoped that the VVD would show a shred of empathy for the farmers. I did not hear that in Mrs Hermans' speech. I would like to ask her: at least support the farmers, who have nothing at all, who are at the end of their Latin. I would have liked to have seen that in her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u56	I have expressed my support here. I have said that I find it terrible for all farmers, who are rightly angry and concerned. There's a lot coming for them. There are farmers who demonstrate within the limits of the law. There are farmers who want to talk about finding a solution. They are now unjustly cornered by the terrible events of recent days. I find it terrible for that group of farmers who are benevolent, who are angry and concerned, who want to enter into the conversation, who demonstrate within the rules of the law. I repeat that again. I'm standing right here in front of those farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you. Then we're gonna listen to... finally, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u58	Yeah, finally. The farmers who hanged themselves have not broken any law at all. I hear the VVD again for the first time in years pleading for stricter penalties. The argument is then about farmers who are at an end. The farmers who hang themselves are also at an end. I still haven't heard a shred of empathy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u59	By conducting this debate in this way, with words like this, we are really not going to make any progress. Nor do we support the farmers who are incredibly hard. They may be watching or listening to this debate. They have expressed their disgust and disgust, some even on television. That's what they did at the risk of being threatened. Some have done it via e-mail, text or app, probably to all the people in this room. I am standing here in front of the farmers who see that something must happen, who find it incredibly intense what is coming towards them, who simply want to engage in the conversation with the cabinet, with provinces, with everyone with whom we have to do this job. I'm standing right here in front of those farmers. For those farmers, I express my support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u60	I heard Mrs Hermans speak of a'reconciliation committee'. I kind of like that. I was just talking about an "intermediate." So it seems that we are on the same page. In my speech to the Prime Minister, I asked whether it would be something to establish a mediator between farmers and ministries. I think it is very wise, as in the Chamber, to have a chairman who separates the fighting dogs. I heard in Mrs Hermans' speech something about a'reconciliation committee'. Actually, that's kind of a mediator, too. I'd say, let's try to move in together. Would Mrs Hermans like to see with me how we can set up such a conciliation committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u61	I just answered Mr Heerma's question. He referred to a proposal by óúd Minister Veerman to get back into conversation, to engage in dialogue, and to get started. As far as I know, Mr Veerman also suggested that this consultation should be led by an independent chairman. I can imagine. I'd like that, too. If that's what you mean by an "intermediate," then maybe we can find each other somewhere. I'll say one thing. However, we have established the frameworks and objectives of the policy together. That's where the conversation's gonna take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u62	Look, the farmers have of course been talking to the Ministry and the Prime Minister for a long time. We've had the Agriculture Collective. Mr Aalt Dijkhuizen has been chairman of this. He did an excellent job. He had enormous support in the agricultural sector. He also had a very large network in business and politics. I'll think of him right away. He could be a very good mediator. I wouldn't start putting stuff together right away, like a committee of experts. That's what I'm gonna tell the CDA. It's gonna be too much fuss again. Keep it small! Stick to one mediator. I have more names in my head, but Mr Dijkhuizen would be a perfect candidate, given his broad track record. Would Mrs Hermans feel like keeping it small? Otherwise everything will be rigged again. Then there'll be reports all over again. Stick to one mediator who intercedes between the farmers and the ministry. Let's take a quick hit. Put an end to the trenches war we're in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u63	I understood Mr Heerma's proposal in this way, but let us also wait for Mr Heerma's input to know whether he really wants consultation and therefore not very complicated constructions. He wants conciliation aimed at reconciliation and that the dialogue should be initiated in order to get away from that policy, which we have now set out the objectives and the frameworks, and to be able to implement this area-based approach. Let us wait and see if that fits in with what you have in mind. Maybe we'll get together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u64	A question from Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u65	What a cheap sham of the CDA and now of the VVD! That simply leads me to the conclusion that you do not represent any farmer. You represent zero point zero peasants. You do not represent the farmers who break the law. You do not want that either, but you do not represent the large group of farmers who do not break the law. You may pretend that, but you don't do that at all. You say here twelve times in a row that you are maintaining the targets that have been set. If you already have some faith in a mediator, that means you're running into each other halfway somewhere, because that's what a mediator does. So you must be prepared to adjust those pre-set targets. What's the point of talking between a mediator and the farmers? What's the point of having a conversation like that when you say "but we're gonna kill you"? I would ask the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Hermans, to think again. Are you prepared to let go of the targets in the sense that you will talk to the farmers to at least meet some of them? Or aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u66	I'm not willing to let go of the targets. I'm not prepared to distance myself from the signature I signed under the coalition agreement. What I am prepared to do is to do everything in my power to achieve this dialogue in a good and decent way. And that is where politics, the cabinet, has a great and important responsibility. Then the discussion will also be discussed about the directional goals that are written on the infamous card. That's all gonna be part of the conversation. How is that gonna get a place in that area-oriented approach? That's the meeting. That is the conciliation meeting as I understood it from Mr Heerma and in which I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u67	It's not a conciliation meeting. It's just a extermination conference. That's what you're gonna do. You are going into a destruction conference, because you say to the peasants: "You must leave. Your company needs to leave. You're gonna have to break. And I'd be happy to talk to you about that, so that hopefully we can come to reconciliation with each other." But that's not a reconciliation call. That's not moving. You say here and you repeat that after my interruption: the targets are set. And those targets, these crazy nitrogen targets of D66 and this cabinet, they're gonna get half the farmers out of here right away. So, Mrs Hermans, once again, you represent zero point zero farmers. I also hope the farmers don't feel bad about it. Fortunately, they're smart enough not to need my advice, but don't go in consultation with the CDA or a mediator or with you if you end up holding the targets and just want to destroy the people. You're kidding them, and you should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u68	This is precisely the problem of the debate we are in: that the farmers must leave. This is exactly where it goes wrong. In this way, wrong images and misconceptions come into the debate. I just want that conversation with farmers and farmers' organizations to take away this kind of crazy, crazy footage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u69	I found and I think it's an interesting and good development that you're looking at how you can prevent further escalation and how you can get more connection again, because that's what is desperately needed. But I would like to support Mr Wilders when he says: if you start shouting "there can and should not be a letter changed to where we should eventually come out" and "the acceleration of the targets after 2030 is in no way in question," do you not burden that conversation equally? Is it not also a problem that you hear from many farmers that it is too much of a dictation: are we really being listened to? So it's fine that that's the commitment on the part of the cabinet. Of course Mrs Hermans has signed up for something, but isn't a respectful conversation first of all that you are also open to the other side and that you then see how to move forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u70	A respectful conversation begins with a conversation again. It's about taking away all those weird bizarre images that are brought into the debate, "everyone must go" and "a bald blow to the farmers" with each other. You have to look in that conversation where we and, above all, how we are going to shape that policy area-oriented in those different provinces. That's where it has to be. Then you also get a conversation about the directional targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u71	But my point is this. If you let one or more sensible people see how that gap can be closed here, is it not wise to provide for all kinds of conditions in advance, all of which can lead to conflict again? Shouldn't you just say: we all see the problem that is at issue here and the social unrest that exists, even among well-willed farmers, who are not guilty in any way of criminal offences; then it is wise to seek reconciliation, without investing all this in advance with conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u72	The most important thing I think is that the conversation is going to take place again, because that is not happening at the moment. In that conversation it must also be about the future and about the perspective. I said just now: that is not yet sufficiently clear. I think a conversation like that might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u73	The area-oriented processes offer a lot of space, even at provincial level, for how it all needs to be filled in. There are too many parties in Parliament who want to evoke the image that the whole landscape, the whole countryside, would be wiped out, parties who want to destroy any attempt at reconciliation, a conversation to normalize the matter, by calling up images here that are not right. The King has spoken out on this matter this week. Former Minister Veerman has made a very good suggestion to come to a normal conversation. In the meantime, you can also see many farmers expressing themselves in newspapers. They express their frustration over parties who consciously evoke an image that is wrong and therefore frustrate any normal conversation. Let us simply give such a conciliation committee a chance, instead of trying to destroy everything here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u74	I think that was not a question for you, Mrs Hermans, but an appeal. Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr. Chairman. On Tuesday, the First Chamber will vote on the amendment of our Constitution. Our colleagues will then decide whether Article 1 of the Constitution will receive a new text: 'The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law'. So a new beginning for our Constitution, which fits a very old tradition, because since 1848 we have been a parliamentary democracy and since then we have been governed by laws and not by arbitrariness, the biggest mouth or the biggest machine. This democratic tradition is at the heart of this debate and we must defend it today, because some people here too seem to want to put this tradition in the dirt of history. Democracy requires that we take into account minorities. Let's say that here too, because no matter how generous the fee is, it's hard to change, relocate or even give up because of the general interest. Those emotions need space, and that's why you can always demonstrate in our country. But let me also be clear: there is no right in the Netherlands to cut down trees, fire, block highways, no right to attack policemen and aid workers and no right to rally ministers, MPs and journalists and their children! Trying to intimidate. Mr. Chairman. After the first farmers' campaign at Minister Van der Wal's home, I was standing here and then the cabinet showed little decisiveness. It even said that there was no indication of any such actions would take place. Now we are twenty days full of grim incidents and the question really is even more pressing: what is the cabinet going to do? I don't read anything about that in last night's letter. Three specific questions. What's the Cabinet going to do to help the police restrain the tractors? Does the cabinet want to quickly work on a ban on the unwanted and unannounced home search of directors and representatives of the people? What is the government going to do to prevent the country from being shut down on Monday? Finally, Mr President. Democracy rests not only on our Constitution, but on the behaviour of all of us. That is why I would like to ask all Dutch people: control yourself. Demonstrate with respect for each other, because all reasonable forces together are so much stronger than a radicalized minority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr President, thank you. Last week we debated the issue of nitrogen policy for 12 hours. It was a fierce debate and it was a very nice debate. We've been asking each other a lot of questions here and taking each other's best shots. It's supposed to be in this parliament. You look up the differences and you see what you can find each other in. But this debate today is not the time to interrupt each other here as MPs, to find the difference. What happened in the last few days has nothing to do with farmers. I do not want to talk about farmers, because most farmers I know, the 99%, are concerned about their survival. I get that. I want to say to you guys, we're gonna keep talking to you; we're gonna keep talking. But what we are talking about here is perhaps the 1% of those farmers, supplemented by radicalized corona protesters and with far-right types who want to undermine the state. We all have to distance ourselves from that. That is what this debate is about, because if a minister's house is attacked or members of parliament are threatened, it is not an attack against individuals but an attack against democracy. Then you draw a line, whether you're on that side of the room or on that side. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore particularly like to express my support for the cabinet to do everything in its power to suppress all the forms of violence we have seen in recent days. When there is talk of committees and talks, it is about all those good farmers who are there, but not about this 1%. It needs to be addressed. That is why I would like to ask: what are we going to do if Monday the whole thing is shut down again in the Netherlands and there are tractors on the highways? So we're finally gonna confiscate them? Are we ensuring that the police have all the means at their disposal to prevent accidents? Finally, Mr President. We are talking to the farmers who are well-intentioned, but I have one appeal to the farmers' organisations: show leadership. A two in which you say "we reject violence" is not enough. Take charge. Channel what your members think is important. To everyone who thinks Monday "I'm gonna join" I say, "We know it's gonna get out of hand. Please don't. You're not doing your business right. You're not doing the country any good." I would like to say to the farmers' leaders: take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'd like to limit the number of interruptions, Mr. Van Haga. You've really had more, so I really don't want to allow any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u79	I have a very short question, because now Corona...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u80	No, I said I don't want to allow any more interruptions. You'll be talking later. We have just agreed to have a compact debate with a limited number of interruptions, so that there is enough time to ask some questions to the directors. That goes for everyone. Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u81	Madam President. The Dutch are furious, because our country is completely destroyed. Our farmers are being demolished, our country is being crawled with asylum seekers, the cabinet is choking millions of people with an empty wallet, there is a housing crisis and there is an energy crisis. Do you think it's weird that people get angry all the time? It's brewing everywhere. The state of the Netherlands is like a volcano erupting. We can debate excesses here every day, but as long as Rutte and Kaag's mischief doesn't end, anger will only get worse. Mr. Chairman. The PVV supports the farmers through thick and thin. Their suffering is unbearable. Farmers are killing themselves. Yet 99% of farmers keep to the rules, but a small group does not. I say to them: "Stay away from politicians' homes. Leave their families alone. Leave the police and the paramedics alone. Stick to the law. Stop intimidating and stop threatening." Believe me, I know what I'm talking about. Mr. Chairman. It is striking that some left-wing liberal parties took advantage of each other earlier this week to be the first to request this debate. That was, of course, because it concerns farmers, because they are in no fields or roads to be seen and silent as the grave as the extremists of Extinction Rebellion, Antifa, Akwasi, robbing asylum seekers, criminals or street terrorists spread terror on the Netherlands. I call that left-wing hypocrisy. Mr. Chairman. My appeal to the cabinet is as follows. Take on those who break the law, but stop that nonsense nitrogen policy. Please, let our farmers burp. To Prime Minister Rutte, I say, people are furious with your mischief. That policy of yours will only get worse and the anger of the people will only get worse if you continue to implement that destructive political agenda of D66. Stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch farmers are ruined by this cabinet on the basis of a non-existent nitrogen problem. Thousands of lives are destroyed, families are broken up and the work of generations is destroyed. Several farmers have now hanged themselves. The right to property is no longer worth anything, the farming culture is being demonised and the government is no longer a protector of the rule of law. The water is on the lips of farmers and they are really losing everything. The great unrest and incomprehension among our farmers makes sense. 'Cause if you don't have anything left to lose, you're capable of anything. BVNL supports our farmers and BVNL stands for the right to demonstrate. Of course, this must be within the limits of the law, and we also reject violence and intimidation. Does the Prime Minister agree with BVNL that the fastest de-escalation is to stop these unnecessary nitrogen plans and not force our farmers to buy them out, but to thank them for working very hard every day to take care of our food? Mr. Chairman. Rumor has it the farmers are going to stop supplying our food. Can the Prime Minister state what his emergency plan is, if this happens? Finally, I would like to ask the Prime Minister how he himself would react if his entire existence were to be taken away. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Then I give... Yeah? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of unrest in our society. Groups of Dutch people are worried about their future and that of their children. It is in the line of citizens who are angry with politics and the cabinet in particular. In this long line of disgruntled citizens, farmers have now come forward and I understand their concerns. The previous Cabinets have lost too long the problems with nitrogen. Then there will be a nitrogen plan. It is not well-tuned, it is poorly communicated and it still requires a lot of work to be done. That farmers feel threatened in their survival, I can imagine. Yet fear is a bad counselor. I would therefore like to say to some of those farmers: do not let cheap rhetoric from parties who try to push you for their own cart with all sorts of extreme doomsdays, who benefit from unrest, who hope that things will go wrong in our society. That's not leadership. Leadership is in dialogue with peaceful means bridging differences, listening to each other's arguments. This is how we solve problems in our democratic rule of law. We do not solve problems by waiting for ministers and MPs, not by intimidating them in their private environment, not by threatening their children. If Members of Parliament cannot carry out their duties as representatives of the people because they have to fear for their safety and, even worse, for their families, that is unacceptable. If protesters want to sow their way with violence and fear, that is unacceptable. And when our agents are attacked and public order and security are systematically threatened, that is also unacceptable. Mr. Chairman. These behaviors have no place in our democracy. To anyone who sympathizes with the farmers, I would like to say that it is the last thing that works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u87	Madam President. The nitrogen plans have loosened up a lot. You notice it in conversations, in meetings. The worries and emotions are deep with farmers and their families. It is the accumulation of rules that descend on the farmyard, without perspective and earning model. That's hard to say. It gets deep. That's what makes me despondent. Hidden frustration, not one year's worth, but years' worth. Does the Prime Minister recognize this? And what will the Cabinet do to restore the connection? Is the Cabinet prepared to pick up the glove of former Minister Veerman? Is the cabinet prepared to look at such a committee of wise men or good services, to bridge that gap between The Hague and the farmers? Madam President. There is a lot of space in the Netherlands to express everything that is bothering your heart. That's a good thing. It's part of the rule of law. However, let us be absolutely clear: visiting ministers and MPs at home, destroying police cars, blocking highways, which is overwritten, and that is unacceptable. With radicalisation, we end up in chaos, and you're also pushing society against you in the armor. A small group of rioters will spoil it for the rest. I would add that not all farmers are rioters and certainly not all rioters are farmers. Mayors, policemen and all others who have a duty to uphold public order are called upon to guard the borders of the rule of law. They must do so wisely and authoritatively. We'd be happy to trust them with that. And I'm also saying hat off for all those people who are doing that in a good way. I have two questions for the Minister of Justice. Do the law enforcement, and therefore the local triangle, have enough space to make their own considerations? And do they encounter bottlenecks that demand a solution from The Hague? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Demonstrate in our country, but must always take place within the rules of the law. And of course, it must never be accompanied by violence or intimidating people. What we've seen in the last few days goes way too far. And I think it's a good thing we're saying that here today. I would also like to wish all those who are directly and personally affected by this and, of course, their families. It doesn't help the farmers either. Because what do we see? The debate is now on this, rather than on the nitrogen pans of the cabinet. And more importantly, the debate is no longer about the currently totally missing perspective for farmers. I, too, would like to wish our people who work in the security services strength and our condolences. This also applies to the police and their families involved in the violence. What is the government looking at, also in the light of the 'actions' announced for the coming period, if you want to call them that? Do our security services and our police officers have sufficient resources now, at this time? How's the cabinet looking at that? What's it gonna take? We all know that there are major deficits and that there is a lot to do. This has been debated very often, including by us. Are we well prepared? What else does our police need? Mr. Chairman. However, our concerns go deeper. They go deeper than just worrying about these rioters. Our concerns go much deeper. They are also about the growing division in our country. We see a group of Dutch people who are quite fine with it, which is actually very good with it. The same group of Dutch people is also well represented here in the Dutch House of Representatives. And we see a growing group of Dutch people with whom things are not going well at all. These people also have less and less confidence in the government. They are, of course, the families affected by the surcharge scandal. They are still waiting for a solution. Yes, it's the Groningers who are still waiting for a crisis response. And it's all those Dutch people who look with fear and trembling at the prices that go through the roof while they don't see their incomes rise. They're very worried about how they're going to pay their bills. They see a policy that is not there for them. They see a government that is powerless to solve people's everyday problems. That is what we should be talking about much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I give the floor to Mr Segers of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u91	Madam President. Farmers who use a large hammer to attack police cars, farm activists who visit colleagues and rulers at home: it is far out of line. We see a polarization that is sometimes oppressive. We are seeing a growing gap between town and country and between farmers and citizens. That gap needs to be narrowed. I would like to express my thanks to the police, who uphold order, which upholds the law and protects public order. I would also like to express my gratitude to farmers and foreman of agricultural organisations who call for calm and make it clear that everyone must abide by the law, including activists and farmers. There are also many farmers who say: I do not approve, but... I speak to those farmers. Those are the butt-sayers. Behind that "but" is a lot of uncertainty and sometimes despair. That is understandable when there is a lot at stake: your life's work, the life's work of your father, your mother or your grandparents. But sometimes it's also wrong. Those are indeed those ghost images, those fear images that just aren't true. My question to the cabinet is to do self-reflection; we all have to do that. How's the communication? The nitrogen problem is a problem of nature and of our lifestyle. That is a way of life with which we go far beyond ecological boundaries. That's a lifestyle of all of us. That's a problem for all of us. It is now perceived as a farmer's problem. What's next? The suggestion has been made on several sides to involve former Minister Veerman. Colleague Heerma was the first. We need to look at how to reduce the gap between town and rural areas and between farmers and citizens, how to restore mutual respect, new contact and new consultation. I think it's a good suggestion. I would ask the Cabinet to take that suggestion seriously and to look for ways to restart the much-needed conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thank you, Mr Segers. Excuse me, there's another question from Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u93	A few things. When it comes to scum, I don't think a commission's gonna help. If it helps to help those 99% of farmers get clarity and a plan, I can support it. At the same time, I have some difficulty with it, because I think that we have a Minister for Agriculture, who should have a plan and clarity. We have a Minister Van der Wal, who's already sticking her neck out. And we have a Prime Minister, who himself found three years ago that this was going to be the biggest crisis in his career. So I'm having a little trouble with it. My question to Mr Segers is therefore genuine. Isn't such a committee actually some kind of last resort to concealing one's own inability? I feel discomfort at that point. Do you feel that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u94	It is not concealing discomfort, but it is perhaps an expression of inability to reach each other properly now. I see that bridges have been picked up that make normal communication impossible, making sure that there is not enough confidence to start that conversation. That's problematic. If there is not a beginning of confidence that you get the result at a negotiating table, at a conversation table... The Netherlands has grown big by always settling differences and bridging differences by conversation, not by hitting a police car with hammers or by visiting politicians at home. If that hope isn't there, then we have to do some pre-work. Then we need to talk again. I found the very nice notions of former Minister Veerman, who said: I see that the gap is now so big, that we really need to talk now to at least get back on speaking terms. I found that to be a testament to wisdom. I'd like to direct that wisdom to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u95	The last question for you, too, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u96	The committee is starting now when we have known for three years that the nitrogen problem is coming. We have known for three years that livestock must at least be reduced. Where exactly and exactly how much is an issue. But you've known for three years that as a cabinet leadership you have to offer a plan to farmers to know in advance what that means. You've known that for three years. Because you forgot that, didn't put it on the table and only had a ticket with "it should be less," we're in this situation now. I'm not talking about the thugs. I'm talking about the 99% of the farmers who ask, "Oh, what does this mean for my business?" Quite frankly, I shall conclude by saying that it really feels to me like a licence of inability if we have a cabinet, a Minister for Agriculture and a Prime Minister who said three years ago 'this is going to be my biggest crisis', which has not been directed at it at all. I hope you understand that a committee is not going to make up for those three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u97	I don't want a commission. A committee is a talk club. That's a whole different circuit with a lot of paper. I want to get back in touch. I want consultation, people looking into each other's eyes again. I agree with the first part of Mr Kuik's speech. Only, it's not unwillingness. Sometimes it is inability or finding that you have not yet properly presented it, that indeed there is not enough clear perspective and that you simply acknowledge it. I spent the week with Op1 next to a farmer. I talked to him a long time afterwards. We talked about the possibilities that exist. It was a organic farmer. He said, "Why doesn't anyone say that?" I think it has been said, but it has not been said loud enough. I think there are a lot of options. There are a lot of options that allow you to stay a farmer, with which there is a real perspective for agriculture. Today I read a piece on agriculture in Denmark. There's a way that has plenty of perspective. It's a really nice perspective. That's our future. We have not succeeded in making that clear to people in a good way. There's definitely a perspective. Only, it won't go the old way anymore. So if Mrs Kikkie says "you haven't succeeded yet," I, the cabinet, the coalition, all of us, I say, yes, you're right. It didn't work out. I can see that. But I find it ugly to politicise and say 'that's the failure of that' and 'a committee is a cloth for bleeding'. Sometimes you just stand there looking at your own inability and you have to rethink how you're going to do it differently. That's where we're at now. I would not want to politicise that, but to make it a problem for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u98	I am very glad that Mr Segers says: please do not have a conciliation committee, because that will be another talk club. I'd really like to watch over that. It should not be a committee but simply go through short lines, through one mediator. Let me come back to what Mr Segers said about that organic farmer. The organic sector is a very beautiful sector. Unfortunately, of course, the marketing of organic products is lagging behind what people say. I don't know if Mr Segers is ever at a birthday party; I'm sure he is. Then I always hear that everyone eats organic food, goes to the butcher's, goes to the baker's, goes to the grocery store and nobody buys kilos of shots, but the consumption figures show otherwise. My question is, when I hear this: does the Christian Union have a little incentive to switch to organic production, when nothing changes on the marketing side? That's no good to the farmers either. There are huge waiting lists for biological. Everyone wants to switch, but it is simply said that we do not have enough sales.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u99	As far as that birthday visit is concerned, for the past two years that has been a little less, but fortunately that can be done again. I recognize the analysis. Many people are indeed talking about organic products, but insufficient people buy them and insufficient people are willing to pay the price for them. There is indeed one of the problems. There is no fair price paid to the farmer. There is a chain of supermarkets, animal feed companies and a lot of other companies, which have good margins, but at the expense of the farmer. When we talk about perspective for farmers, it is a fair price. Then it is a fair and good way to be a farmer. Then a lot of things have to change. There's a biological way to do that. There's another way to do that. You can do that in a nature-inclusive way. You can do that with pasture management. This can be done with landscape management, with good compensation, but in such a way that farmers, who manage 70% of our country in a good way, also get a fair price. That is a different agriculture than we have now, but one with a future. That perspective needs to be told much more clearly. The responsibility for the quality of nature, and indeed for nitrogen reduction, is one of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u100	What I see a lot about organic farmers or organic-dynamic farmers is this. The other day I read a very nice story about farmer Piet in Flevoland. He knows all about plant protection products and I don't know how much of flowers, herbs and insect kingdoms. If you read between the lines of that story, you can see that the farmer has a side branch. He has a very big caretaker. That's actually his main income. With that main income, he can invest in it. That's what farmers now see a lot of. They have agricultural childcare, for example. The farmers who already do so often have a side branch, from which they have their main income. So they can invest in those other things. So I keep wondering: how are we going to do that with the common farmers? 95% in the Netherlands is just a common farmer, so they get their main income from food. You can't expect everyone to have a side branch. I've been thinking about that for a long time. How are we going to offer that perspective? We're gonna have that debate. I always hear the word "perspective," but what exactly is the perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u101	There is a range of options. You may have side activities, but it may also be that you still have a good sandwich with fewer cows or fewer animals, also with landscape management, where you get a good compensation for not mowing edges or for taking good care of meadow birds. There is not yet a proper remuneration for this. Now it's some kind of cost-covering activity. It's a nice touch, but you should get a fair price for it. There are a lot of activities and lots of ways of being a farmer. There is no one way; there is a variety of ways. When we, as consumers, and all those chain partners - and that sounds a little abstract, but I mean those supermarkets, animal feed companies and all those people who have a role somewhere - pay the fair price to the farmer, then that farmer can be and remain a farmer, with less emissions and better care for nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u102	Thank you. Your last question, Mrs Van der Plas. Mr. Heerma is coming too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr Heerma has already heard how I feel about the conciliation committee. I think it is a good thing that proposals are being made, though. My last question is about that compensation. It just has to be a market price. The farmer provides a service. Society wants a field edge. That's just a service you're doing. It may sound very strange, but of course it is. It is a social wish, so a market-based price must be paid for it. I'm always a little afraid that when we start talking about fees, it's said that you get that compensation per hectare or so, but the compensation for the rest never goes up, while the costs do go up. I would actually argue with the Christian Union that if we do this kind of thing, like a side job and everything, it will just become a commercial enterprise. Only then can you get the price out of the market. Only then can you say: okay, I'm asking for that price and that price, because I have those and those costs. Now farmers can't pass on anything, but they're gonna have to be able to pass it on. I was curious to see how Mr Segers would look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u104	I agree. The time and attention they devote to this must be rewarded fairly. They should get a fair price. It shouldn't just be cost-effective so that "you can add a little more." It must be part of the business system, because they are doing something that we all enjoy: the good management of the beautiful country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u106	Everyone agrees that there must be a perspective for the farmers. The criticism was that we received from the cabinet, from the Minister of Agriculture, a letter of more than 40 sides in which there was no perspective at all. I am a little surprised that it would suddenly have to go through a table or a committee. I think it is important to know from the Christian Union Group whether agreements have been made. Are there any targets set? Is the pace fixed? Or is it the intention of that committee to call that into question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u107	No. We need to distinguish two things. The desire to take good care of nature and therefore we need to reduce nitrogen. That is what we have set targets for and they stand for. This requires a conversion, a shift to circular agriculture, to a way of being a farmer that is less burdensome for nature. That's the cover we're making. Now we have a social crisis in which people no longer reach each other, where there is a big gap and where Veerman says in a beautiful reflection: how the hell can we get these people back together and make them look each other in the eye, start to trust each other and talk again? That is the beginning of any cooperation and cooperation has made this country great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you. Mr Paternotte, D66. No? Then I would like to thank you, Mr Segers, and give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u109	Madam President. After years of pushing forward and looking away from the real problem, we are now looking at an escalation. Violent scumbags and a movement of people who turn against the government, complemented by professional protesters. This is how our country shakes its foundations right now. A poisonous mix has been created which leads to visible and also palpable insecurity for many. Volt strongly condemns the events of the last few days and stands in solidarity with all those who need it, of course our fellow politicians and chamber members, ministers, aldermen, scientists, journalists and farmers. Farmers who also feel anger, feel sadness, but who express their displeasure in a different, peaceful way, as may be, as can be done and as should be done in a democracy. At the same time, as a Chamber, we must jointly draw a line when there are parties that spin yarn in sowing disinformation and division. I turn to the Minister of Justice. What has been the strategy so far? Can we conclude that it didn't work? What is the Minister's view and how is this strategy being changed? How exactly does the Prime Minister view this situation? How does he steer reconciliation, as in the aforementioned plan of former Minister Veerman? Is he going to do this like, for example, the Belgian minister, who goes to rooms himself, looks farmers in the eye and explains what needs to be done and why it needs to be done? Is the threat to our democracy due to this situation not much greater than the Prime Minister has so far acknowledged? Is he directing now? Or is he gonna push these through? Finally, Mr President. This is not just an apple to those in this room. Recent history shows how easily supposedly stable democracies have been shaken, to say the least. With that in mind, we cannot leave the vulnerability of our own democracy to the increasingly common undemocratic whims of our times. That, too, requires leadership. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Heerma, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Farmers who attack aid workers, attack the police, or rulers and people's representatives, our colleagues, intimidate: stop it! There is only one answer to this type of action, and that is criminal law. Because no one is above the law. The escalation of protest to violence must stop. This is also what the majority of farmers think. They understand the emotions of the activists, but at the same time they realise that measures are needed. Such a farmer is Eric Kleissen, who is in the Dutch daily today. He says about the way in which action is being taken now that it doesn't help anyone. But he is also disturbed by the polarisation in politics and by parties that abuse the legitimate concerns of farmers' families. Also in the Dutch newspaper Dagblad and in the Volkskrant, former Minister Veerman today calls for parties to be brought to the table to prevent further escalation and to break through the trenches. He uses different names: a conciliation committee, a crisis committee. Apart from that, it seems to my group to be a good idea. I am pleased to see that a lot of parties have also indicated this in the debate. The targets aren't in question, that's what Veerman says. The task is to strengthen mutual understanding and empathy in order to clear up this task with each other and to provide real prospects for a healthy countryside. Stand next to each other instead of facing each other. There is not one blissful solution to the problem of nitrogen. There's one way we can move on, and that's together, with each other. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the cabinet is prepared to appoint someone as soon as possible to bring about this discussion, as Mr Veerman proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u112	Are you at the end of your speech? I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u113	The reason for this debate is, among other things, that Mr Boswijk, colleague of Mr Heerma's group, said yesterday on Twitter that he would stay home for a few days, because he had visited his home the night before, in front of his children. My question is what actually happened. Who came to visit him? What was the nature of that visit? Has there been any threat, violence or intimidation? Have any of these crimes been committed at all? If so, has that been reported? How is Mr Boswijk and his family now? And when can we expect Mr Boswijk back in our midst?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u114	Mr Boswijk is not here today. I do not like the fact that we are talking about Mr Boswijk. It's about his own situation. It is up to Mr Heerma to respond, but I would like to say as President that we have agreed not to talk about people who are not present, and certainly not about someone's private situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u115	I am absolutely not concerned about Mr Boswijk's person. I don't blame him either. This is the reason for this debate. It is precisely because so much is unclear about it that all kinds of speculations are being made. It is speculated that there have been angry farmers at his door. It is speculated that there has been intimidation or threat. This is the reason for this debate. It is even speculated that there has been an attack on parliamentary democracy. That is all being put in the hands of the farmers. The farmers are being put in a bad light. If it isn't and if it's all different, then I'd love to hear exactly what's going on. That is very important for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u116	But we're not gonna talk about someone's safety. We're not gonna talk about someone's private situation. I give the floor to Mr Heerma to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u117	A point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u118	I'll see if Mr. Heerma will confirm my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr. Heerma is man enough to answer for himself, Mr. Klaver. I do not go into Mr Boswijk's personal situation. If Mr Van Meijeren is interested in this, he can contact him personally. I know that many Members of Parliament have done so in recent days, for which there is much appreciation. The reason for this debate is much wider. Mr Van Meijeren knows that too. A lot has happened in the last few days. Police cars have been destroyed, there have been intimidations and threats to a regiment and to MPs. There have been actions that have been totally out of line and that no longer have anything to do with peaceful demonstrations and the right to demonstrate. If you are really interested in Mr Boswijk, please contact Mr Boswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u120	I would like to give the floor to my fellow Members, who wanted to respond to your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u121	Of course, there is no doubt that Mr Heerma can respond well to this. I just don't think he should answer that. In fact, I do not think this question should be asked here. Let me explain to you why. Questions of this kind could jeopardise the safety not only of this colleague, but of many more colleagues. That is why this question does not belong here and I do not think it can be asked here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u122	I have nothing to add to what Mr Heerma has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u123	It is quite remarkable that Members of Parliament say that no question should be asked about what happened...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u124	But ask me another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u125	This is also a point of order, because I am also being approached here by Mr Klaver. Mr Klaver says that the question cannot be asked what happened. But personally, like a lot of others, they do speculate about what happened. And what I've heard...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u126	No, no, we're not talking about Mr. Boswijk here. I'm fine with you asking a question, but another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr. Chairman. What is very important is the following. I spoke to a number of farmers this afternoon. I understand there's an old 70-year-old female...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u128	No, you are going to talk about Mr Boswijk's situation. I just don't want to do that. We're not talking about a colleague who's not here. We have all responded to this. Ask another question. We do not want to talk about Mr Boswijk. It has also been said that it also affects his safety and his personal situation. If there's anything you want to ask, there's another question. Otherwise, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u129	No, Mrs. Chicken, I'm not just gonna sit down. I'm just gonna stand here. You don't have to talk to me from your bench when I'm standing here at the interrupting microphone. I come to the point that almost all the speakers have reflected on a situation in Mr Boswijk. This will have the greatest possible consequences. And if it is so that indeed, what I have heard, there has been talk that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u130	No, we're not gonna go through with this. No way. Would you like to sit down, Mr. Van Meijeren? Thank you. Mr. Heerma, I think you were at the end of your speech? Yes. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u131	I listen to Mr. Heerma and understand his story. At the same time, I am concerned about the term "reconciliation committee." We're here with the Minister of Justice and Security. This debate has been requested on the basis of everything we have seen in recent days of attacks on police and aid workers, intimidation of rulers and politicians. I get apps in the vein: reconciliation, that can't be reconciliation between those people and drivers? That is not what Mr Heerma means, but I do think it is important to ask the question: what is this committee aimed at? Is it true that it is not aimed at calling into question all the decisions taken by the House of Representatives the day before yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u132	I do not quite understand Mr Paternotte's concern, if I am honest, assuming that he has listened carefully to my speech. I think I have been very clear about what can and cannot be done when demonstrations cross the line of lawlessness, violence, intimidation and threat. In addition, if we look at the situation we are now in, Mr Veerman has made a proposal. If Mr Paternotte reads correctly, he will see that Mr Veerman himself says that the objectives should not be called into question, but that reconciliation should be started. I don't like that term. That's what I said. It's not about the term. The point is that I think it is a good suggestion to come up with an independent chairman to start that conversation and calm the moods. Even when you see this debate, I think it is essential that oil be thrown on the waves from the Chamber instead of oil on the fire. I believe that there can be broad support for such a President. It should not be a talk club, as Mr Segers rightly said, but I do not think that Mr Paternotte's concern is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you. The last question from Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u134	I understand the call to reconnect. But that can only be done if the targets remain in place. I am just a little surprised, because I think the Ministry of Agriculture has always talked to the farmers. Sector plans this, sector plans that, consultation with the sector sister, consultation with the sector so. So I'm wondering, what's the commission gonna do? I read in itself a fine observation by one of the agricultural officials, who said 40 years ago: that will be a problem with that nitrogen. He said, also with a view to such a committee: it is simply good if people at high political and administrative level openly acknowledge what has gone wrong, that can help. Of that I think: do you need a commission for that? Or is it just time for the CDA and the VVD, and all those parties who have always supported it, to acknowledge that the choices they have made have always been in the interests of the agro-industry, but not in the interests of farmers? Does that not help farmers in the connection and reconciliation that Mr Heerma is looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mrs Ouwehand has now used Mr Veerman's proposal nicely to ask another political question. I do believe that there is now an impasse, a further escalation, on which the king has also expressed his opinion. Mr Veerman makes a constructive proposal to come down from this spiral. I have also seen that Minister Staghouwer himself indicates that he wants to start the conversation again. I think that's wise and good. An independent president can be of great added value. That is why I am making this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u136	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Your last question, too, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u137	I'm from Venlo, from Limburg. I remember when you went from Venlo to Maastricht via Roermond, there was a poster from the CDA somewhere in every meadow you ran into. Who could have feared that the party that so supported the farmers now stands at the cradle of destroying the farmers in the Netherlands? The farmers see that for themselves, because they're running away from the CDA screaming. Where are you, with seven or eight seats left in the polls? There's nothing left of the CDA. The CDA is trying with a trick of a conciliation committee to save what can be saved. But I say to Mr Heerma through you, Madam President, that the last thing the Netherlands needs is a representative of the CDA, who, while not changing the demands and standards, is going to institutionalize that we are destroying the farmers. You used it with your CDA. You used it to the farmers. You have become a party of peasant haters. They'll take care of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u138	Well, you know, this is an interruption as we know it from Mr. Wilders. I just mentioned Eric Kleissen in my speech. I'll read out what he literally says in the ND today: "There are parties that stir up emotions. They take advantage of the legitimate concerns of farmers' families. It's a sad situation. Purely out of political gain, they give farmers the idea that all farmers are being wiped out in whole areas. I'm not reading this in Staghouwer's letter. I can't hear a provincial director saying this. I am a convinced member of the LTO and I expected the LTO to do more to regulate the emotions. Hopefully that will happen."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now that everyone's through their questions, I'm safe. Many farmers are rightly dissatisfied. They demonstrate with sincere feelings and justified criticism. This is often misunderstood and less and less understood here in The Hague. The gap between Randstad and the region turns out to be an open wound right across the country. JA21 criticises those who go too far. Don't do that. Don't demonstrate with politicians at home, but do it in another place, in consultation with the police. When animal activists come to see you at home, which happens sometimes, you hate it, too. We call on everyone to abide by the law. Finally, an appeal to the Prime Minister. You are a lot abroad, but there is also a inland country. Your own country is in a state of riot. You must draw this dossier to you, because now there are two starting ministers with it. So far, you have said: the nitrogen plans must be done, there must be no other way. That sounds pretty distant. Leadership starts with empathy, and I miss it. This nitrogen plan is not just a plan, but it decides on the fate of many farmers and the whole countryside. But Prime Minister, your political leadership is lacking and so is your moral leadership. As this land crumbles under your feet, you are invisible. You're not the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, you're the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. That's a fact. I even have 30 seconds left to go over Mr Veerman's round tables. A petite histoire. It's curious. Mr Veerman was Minister of Agriculture 20 years ago. He was responsible for setting up the many Natura 2000 sites. Then Prime Minister Balkenende went to Brussels to correct it, but that failed. After that, the House of Representatives criticized him. And so, in history, the Netherlands always lags behind the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u141	Thank you, Mr. Eppink. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u142	The expropriation plans of the cabinet are a direct declaration of war from the cabinet to the agricultural sector. Under false pretenses, farmers are robbed of their land, ancient farms are demolished and farm families are completely destroyed. It is terrible to see that several farmers are now so desperate that they feel compelled to take harder action to get their cry for help heard. The Forum for Democracy has always called for peaceful resistance and will continue to do so, if only because I am convinced that non-violent resistance, which may also be massive, militant and powerful at the same time, is the strongest weapon we have to defeat our opponents. However, I will not condemn the riots we have seen over the last few days. It would be morally irresponsible to do so without condemning the blatant attack on farmers at the same time. I quote Martin Luther King. He said: riots are the language of people who are not heard. The farmers were not heard, not when they called the alarm clock, not when they spoke to the ministry and not when they demonstrated with many tens of thousands of thousands of people against the injustice that is being done to them. They are completely ignored and demonized and are now being fought. Does the Prime Minister share my concern that if he continues with the expropriation plans, there will inevitably be a rebellion that will completely fade the riots we have seen so far? It is a logical and predictable consequence of the cowardly attack on the farmers. That is why I will end with an appeal to the cabinet. Stop the unlawful expropriation plans. Stop the destruction of human lives, not just for farmers, but for the whole of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u143	There is an interruption by Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u144	We must use this debate to make it 'we' as much as possible and to draw a common line. I had hoped Forum would participate in this. You are now talking about "scratches" that you are not going to condemn. Hitting a big hammer on a police bus, is that a riot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u145	Well, compared to all the violence that came from the GroenLinkshoek, from squatters' riots to murders of politicians, this is indeed part of a massive, largely peaceful and loving resistance from the peasant groups. If a few young people give a blow to a police car and Mr Klaver is at the front in one go to ask for an urgent debate on 'ooh, what is it all terrible', then I think that is a form of selective indignation. If we see the most horrible violence from left-wing extremist angle, it remains silent from GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u146	Lots of words, lots of screaming back at me. That's fine. But what you're really saying here... With a big sledgehammer against police buses, it is put away as "a riot." Storming a minister's house, where her fucking family is inside, is "a riot." We may differ on everything, but we should all stand firm in defending democracy. I know Forum has a history where it doesn't do that and it wants to attack history. But you should be here with the colleagues and not with us. What are you thinking of saying "a little riot"? Attacking a family and assaulting police officers is unacceptable. That also undermines the farmers' message. You would do well to do so, and I would like to give you once again the opportunity to reject it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u147	Well, as I pointed out, the Forum for Democracy is always calling for peaceful resistance and I find it horrible to see that there are farmers who did not see any other way out of being heard. Unfortunately, it doesn't come as a surprise for me. These farmers are threatened to be visited at home, not by people who want to chat, but by people who want to take away their land and destroy their farms, destroying entire farming families. It is, of course, terrible that this leads to non-peaceful resistance here and there. I said I'm judging that. However, I am not saying this without saying at the same time that I condemn the terrible attack on the agricultural sector. That would be morally irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yeah, finally. The excessive violence in protests does not come from farmers at all. They may be some radicalized farmers. It's the anticorona protesters. It's far right. It's a poisonous cocktail. They're attacking democracy. They say if we don't get what we want, we use force to push our way through. What I'm hearing here, I'd like to call it "stately dangerous." Stop this. This isn't good. You're part of this house. You are part of this democracy. It's an honor to be a Member of Parliament. I believe that the way in which you are now talking about 'disturbing', about looking up the minister at home, is detrimental to the office you are holding here. Stop this. Call on all those who listen to you instead of playing the pyromaniac. You have that chance now. You're playing a pyromaniac so far. You're trying to stir people up. You also have a chance to calm the moods. You can tell all people: "Don't take your tractor on the highway on Monday. Don't do it. Don't attack cops. Keep it quiet." Now you're talking it right. I blame you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u150	It's a false frame that would justify violence, anytime. That's incorrect. I am calling for peaceful resistance. Of course, I hate what happened. However, I am very glad that no deaths or injuries have been made so far. I'm glad it's been limited to some material damage so far. I have also indicated that this is the logical consequence of the way farmers are being cornered. Someone who doesn't see that in this Chamber is completely blind to what is happening in society. The anger, frustration and despair are currently incredibly deep among our farmers. I just want the peace to return. That's why I call on the Cabinet to stop the lies. I call on the Cabinet to stop robbing hard-working farmers of their life's work, of their existence, of everything they have built up under false pretenses. This will lead to the return of peace. If these criminal plans are pursued, then I have only one message: you ain't seen nothing yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr. Van Meijeren, I'd like to address you on this. You're talking about "crime policy." That means that you say indirectly that the rulers are criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u152	It's theft!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u153	But it's not criminal. I really want to appeal to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u154	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u155	I really want to appeal to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u156	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u157	I think we should stop this now. I think Mr Van Meijeren has spoken long enough. I think you've been saying things over and over again. Let's stop this. Yeah? I do not think this is helping the debate either. Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. The directors have indicated that they need about twenty minutes to prepare themselves. I'm suspending the meeting until 9:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u158	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the social unrest surrounding the nitrogen crisis. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you, Mr President. It is good, I think, that we are here as politics, as Dutch national politics, considering the terrible events this week. I actually want to make my answer rather brief. I have not been asked many questions, but I would like to touch briefly on three points. Of course, I'll see if I can get any more questions about that. The first is indeed the situation this week and the last few weeks. The second is that I would also like to say a few things, again on behalf of the cabinet, about tackling the major problem of nitrogen and how we look at it. Finally, questions have been asked about the direction and my role. Of course, I will also address these questions. It's about today, Mr. Chairman. Let me say in the clearest terms that, as far as we are concerned, the cabinet and myself, it is unacceptable for politicians to be harassed. Fortunately, I heard it back from most people in the debate. It doesn't matter if they're MPs or cabinet members or party politicians. It also happened during the week that it focused on people who volunteer in parties. People from different political parties were surrounded and harassed after meetings. It is unacceptable, even unacceptable and unacceptable, that these politicians should be hindered in the performance of their duties and in the performance of their democratic tasks. Nor is it acceptable for drivers in the country to be put under pressure or for policemen or ordinary people on the highway to fear for their safety because of reckless behaviour by a small group of vandals. We've seen a police car pushed off the road. Hay bales and fireworks were set on fire in front of a police station. And indeed, members of the team I am allowed to lead have had to do with very intimidating performances in the private sphere by a small group of rioters. Anyone in this country can demonstrate. There's no doubt about that. It's part of our democracy. Democracy is not just what we do here. It's not just voting rights, a Second Chamber and a Cabinet. Democracy is indeed also the media. Democracy is freedom of speech. Democracy is expressing your views by demonstrating in the strongest terms. But what is never acceptable is that there is intimidation and violence. Then it is important to note that in this country, when it comes to it, the Public Prosecutor's Office, mayors and police are shoulder-to-shoulders and are also willing to step forward and take their responsibility. And I'm proud of that. The Minister of Justice will discuss the events in a moment, including in the legal sense, and what may or may not come to us in the next week. But I just want to say one thing here. We are a civilized country and part of a civilized country is that you express your views in a civilized way. It's part of the Netherlands. That's what we do with 17 million people. We are not a country in which we express our views in such a terrible way. That has happened this week and that small group of people is ruining it for the large group of farmers who are extremely worried. Mr President, I see many questions. I could also go on briefly and say a number of things about the nitrogen crisis and my role in it. Then I did my full answer, but of course I am also available to answer questions on this particular subject, what happened this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u160	Yes, but in itself, the first part, which happened this week, has been completed. All right. Then I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, because she has already indicated that she wanted to ask a question. Then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u161	Thank you. I'd really like to know exactly what happened. Of course, we've all seen footage. I have spoken to a lot of people who were there, not only farmers but others. I'll take Kootwijkerbroek and what I hear about that as an example. The farmers had a protest and went on the highway. That's what they made arrangements with the local police. He regulated that, too. People indicate that it actually went very well. It all remained within the framework and within the arrangements with the local police there. At one point there was an incident and suddenly the arrest unit came into action. Then it actually escalated, when until then it was actually just a normal protest. I think it is also important for the Chamber to know exactly how this coincidence went and how it was possible that it first went well with the local police. There were also agreements made between them until that arrest unit arrived. Why did it go wrong and why did the things that we saw happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u163	What's the result of that? 'Cause I think there's two more people in jail for attempted manslaughter. I understand that one of the guys sitting there is someone who... I do not want to say 'weakly gifted', but not very consciously there has been raging. That's just what I hear, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u164	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u165	Yes. My specific question is: can we get a factual account of this, at least from Kootwijkerbroek, but preferably also from Harderwijk Hereden?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr. Chairman. Our police, together with the mayors, are responsible for maintaining public order. They do so in the Netherlands on the basis of very precise legislation and a very precise division of labour. The police can use force, if necessary, but in many cases they will choose to try to de-escalate. Sometimes people think, if they don't act: eh, it's crazy that they don't act here! But after that, you can see that the police are making arrests based on camera footage. That's what we've seen in the last few days. These are cases that just happened. All these investigations are still going on. The Minister of Justice can say a few words about what we may or may not share with the Chamber on this matter, but it is not possible to go into detail here now about the exact state of the investigation of the specific incidents in Kootwijkerbroek, in Apeldoorn or what happened in Hereden. That's really up to the police and it's really up to the local triangle. Once again, Mrs Yeşilgöz, the Minister of Justice, can say something about what we can be shared about later, but that is not something we can do here. But I can tell you one thing. If I have learned one thing in the last 12 years of the Dutch police if I have to act, then it is that they do so in a way that is also internationally known as trying to prevent violence and try to manage things properly as long as possible. But if it is necessary, they will step forward too, and they must do so on behalf of all of us, if that is necessary. I have every confidence in that, but once again I cannot go into the specific situation in Kootwijkerbroek or other situations. Mrs. Van der Plas asked. That's why I'm answering that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u167	No, look, I didn't ask if we could get that now, but whether the Chamber could finally just get a factual account of what happened there. Last week I also spoke a great deal to those police officers who were at that protest in Stroe, which was really fantastic. They told me they have very good contacts in Kootwijkerbroek. And we all know once again in history that in Kootwijkerbroek the FMD affair is still in the DNA. That is why it is very important that local authorities have good contact with the people in the village. Not just with the farmers. So I just think it's important to know how that happened. Then we can see, together, how this can possibly be prevented in the future. That doesn't affect the violations of the law that have been committed. That's what I've been talking about. But I do think it's important that we get the facts straight. That is not necessary now, but I do want the Chamber to be informed at a later date about what exactly happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u168	Or that is possible, the Minister of Justice will say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u169	The Prime Minister mentioned that we are a civilized country. That is true, but of course it also includes civilized policies. If the policy goes to the uncivilized... That is really the case with the farmers, because you are touching the farmers to the heart. A farmer's heart, at least when it comes to a business, threatens to stop knocking. But not just the farmers, Madam President. A lot of people are very angry that despite all the problems, they will not get any additional compensation for inflation, the energy bill this year. People are angry that their congregation is being flooded with asylum seekers, municipalities are angry that they are being flooded with asylum seekers. The Dutch are civilized, but if you treat them to uncivilized policies over and over again, then without talking right, because we all have to abide by the law. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u170	A cabinet and also a Lower House have the task of giving the best possible direction to complex social processes. At present, this means, for example, ensuring that this country is prepared for the energy transition and for the major approach to climate change. Think also of investing in our safety. The whole problem of nitrogen is an extremely complex issue. That doesn't just affect the farmers. Anyone who says "it's not just about the farmers" is right. It affects our entire society. I thought Segers and others said the same in the debate. It's extremely complex. I get it very well. You'll only be a farmer in the Gelderse Valley, the Utrecht Hill Ridge or in the Peel and have a proud company with pigs or with cows. Maybe you've invested extra in the last few years. You may even have thought that this innovation to bring back nitrogen was actually going to produce something, and you're hearing that it's not working enough. You've arranged your company follow-up or you've just taken over the company, and you're proud of that company. Next comes the message from the cabinet: we really need to do much more than we have already done, intervene in that nitrogen problem, because the soil is souring. This is ultimately also a long-term problem for farmers, but it must also be because it is otherwise impossible in the short term to build roads in this country and to build houses here and there where necessary. I understand it is incredibly profound when you hear that, especially when it comes to the Gelder Valley; that is a region that I personally know very well and where I know a lot of farmers. But what Mr Wilders is saying here gives the impression that the peasantry in the Netherlands is going to disappear and that there is going to be a bald clean-up. In this country there is room for a lot of farmers, for a very strong agricultural sector, also in the future. We're not gonna do this tomorrow. The objectives are clear. They're stuck. We are now going to talk to the provinces about those area-oriented processes in order to map very precisely what needs to be done where. It is not for nothing that a fund has been set up with EUR 25 million to ensure that it is managed properly. So yes, I understand, as Mr Wilders said, that there is unrest in society about rising prices, but also about tackling nitrogen. It is therefore particularly important that the cabinet should also take measures to ensure that this is done properly. But then it will help, with all due respect to my former colleague and now leader of the opposition, Geert Wilders, to keep a bit of a picture of the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u171	I certainly try to do that, but I think this tends to be indecent policy; a lot of people think so. You yourself mentioned that you have earmarked tens of billions for nitrogen policy. That is, among other things, to buy out the farmers. Buying out means a company's gonna stop. Last week I went with other colleagues, including Mrs van der Plas, to farmers who say that it has passed from generation to generation, and we are losing it. You're not gonna give me an answer. It goes way beyond just the peasants. We are talking about farmers, but we are also talking about the purchasing power of people, of the elderly, of disabled people, of low-income people and of those with a middle-income income, a secondary income, who are very angry that you are making wrong choices. I remember you were standing here a year ago. Do you remember? You were standing here on 1 April, at that difficult debate for you. Then you stood next to me, and then you promised me, Mr. Wilders, I'm going to do my stinking best to regain trust. And what did we see? We are one and a half years later and there is one great distrust in the Netherlands. You'd do your stinking best to regain trust. There's a demonstration every day. Next week, we'll talk about the Spring Note. Then people are angry that you're not doing anything about their purchasing power. The farmers are angry. The mayors and the regions are angry about the asylum issue. Next week you will come up with laws that may say that municipalities must make homes and institutions available to asylum seekers. In other words, you failed to keep that promise. You'd win back the trust and do your stinking best! I will not use the word "civil war" and I will not throw oil on the fire, but you must be almost blind not to see that the Netherlands is a volcano erupting!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u172	For the people who are following the debate, it is perhaps appropriate to repeat, first of all, that Mr Wilders too has distanced himself from the violence in his first term. I think it is a good thing that I repeat that here, because someone who is now looking at the debate will think: "Hey, the debate was about this derailed violence this week, wasn't it? What is Wilders talking about?" I think I am helping Mr Wilders by reminding him of that. I also appreciate that he did so at the beginning of his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u173	Finally. Don't twist my words or twist your own words. You were standing right next to me on that interrupting microphone, and I was standing right here. And you said no more and less than: Mr. Wilders, I'm going to do my stinking best to regain confidence, period. That's all you said. A lot of people at home... For you had lied in the Chamber or in your opinion you had forgotten something; let us not repeat that discussion. People belonged: you're going to do your best to... It's not about me; who's Geert Wilders? It's about the Netherlands. You told the Netherlands through me: I am going to do my stinking best to regain confidence. In the meantime, we have nothing but distrust in the Netherlands. We have a policy on nitrogen for farmers who suffer so much from farming that we have demonstrations almost every day. We have people who can't make it through purchasing power, war or not. You'll be able to help those people financially this year and you won't. We have problems in the Netherlands with scarce land and you are going to fill the Netherlands with asylum seekers. That's no way, Mr. Rutte, to regain confidence. Trust goes on horseback. Look at the polls. Your cabinet's at 30, 40 seats down. You can't say this is going well, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u174	At least those seats don't go to the PVV, because you're also on a loss in those polls. Maybe that's... You bring up those polls yourself...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u175	What kind of a you-bowl is that? Is that serious...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr. Wilders, I think I had the floor. I'm gonna finish it anyway. You're bringing up the polls yourself. I think it's a very weak argument. But if you do mention polls, take a look at your own polls. We all have problems with the polls. Yes, except for Mrs. Van der Plas. And why is that? Because this country is going through an extremely difficult phase right now. That's in the first place... I was at the NATO summit these days. I had to be there, not because I liked being in Germany, but because it was about the Netherlands, about our security, to make sure that we keep this country safe with our allies against the terrible Russian aggression and prevent Russia from moving further towards Europe by making a success in Ukraine. We can't let that happen. The price we have to pay for this is that we must indeed be prepared to accept here too that energy prices and prices generally increase. You can't make up for all that as a government. That too is the difficult message. The fact is that €800 goes to the lowest incomes. The fact is that tomorrow, 1 July, energy prices are falling and minimum wages are rising. Is that enough? No. We'll have to see, again in August, what else you can do. But Mr Wilders here gives the impression that he can remove it all with a magic wand. His polls show that his constituents do not believe him either. They are indeed blaming the cabinet that this problem has not yet been solved, but they can see that we are working on it. The same applies to nitrogen. If we leave that problem and leave the soil to acidify further, you will not only have the problem that our farmers in the Netherlands will have in the longer term a soil that they will no longer be able to work with. In the short term, we will have the problem of further legal rulings, which makes it impossible to invest in our roads, houses and so on. We have to face that fact. Then you have to make sure that you can offer the farmers a perspective. Therefore, a lot of money is being allocated and you have to respect those farmers who are very worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u177	The last thing about this, and then I'm gonna sit down. Look, you're just not here for the Netherlands. You're just not here. You have promised to restore confidence and leave it all to the ministers. You are also the great absentee on this dossier. You're not in the Chamber debate last week. You're not at a demonstration. We brought you here today and you're happy. But you are the great absentee. You're letting it again... If we get into trouble, what's Mark Rutte's signature? "We'll let the ministers fix it up. Leave them in the shit. I'll come when you have to resign and then I'll pat you on the back or half a kiss or I'll know anything." You're not here. People will see you, if you take the microphone and say that they must destroy the peasantry, that the municipalities must take care of the asylum seekers and that people, elderly people who have a purchasing power problem or workers, can simply suffocate as far as you are concerned. That's what they see of you. You can make a you-bake for me, but you are the Prime Minister of the Netherlands. You promised to restore confidence. And the people, Mr. Rutte, whether you like it or not, trust you less, every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u178	Trouble can be solved by dealing with them. But Mr Wilders speaks to me in the direction. That was also the point made by Mrs Kuik in her first term. I always think that's a serious point. First of all, I would like to say that it is not, of course, the case that since 2019 the approach to the nitrogen problem has been problem-free. It just isn't. We were then confronted with that statement about the Council of State's PAS. Then there was legislation and all measures were taken, but that was not enough. It turned out that a big step had to be taken. That's what we did in formation. We've made 25 billion. A fund has been set up to properly spend that amount. We have ensured that there is a separate minister for this issue. There is also a separate discussion in the cabinet, which I myself chair. But Mrs Kuik says here: Rutte is not sufficiently visible in this problem. I'll take care of that, and I'll see what might be better in there. I think I was visible there, but I hear that feedback. So, of course, I will also think about how we can do that in the coming period, so that Mrs Kikken can also see that I am personally visible in it. That doesn't mean I'm taking over the file or pulling it over to me. That stays with the Minister. My job must be to ensure that the Minister has all the money, all the powers and all the possibilities to do her work in such a way that problems are solved internally. I'm working on it. Mrs. Kuik says: you must also show it externally. Well, I think that's good feedback.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you. We're gonna listen to Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u180	We can go home. It is not so much feedback, I say to the Prime Minister. We're dealing with escalating violence, escalating violence, intimidation. My simple question then is whether the Prime Minister acknowledges that he will be quiet for too long. Does he recognize that he is invisible for too long before he speaks out and makes himself heard?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u181	No, I disagree. I think that if this happens, it is primarily up to the Minister of Justice to respond to it. That's what happened. Of course, I reacted immediately to the bizarre events a few weeks ago, when the first time Mrs Van der Wal was on the street what happened there. That was just before the VVD party conference. I responded to that. The situation from this weekend onwards was initially addressed by the Minister of Justice. We talked on Tuesday. I have said that it is now reaching a level where I have to react myself. But it's not like every time things happen, I react myself. It is normal that the directors concerned should react in the first instance. I had understood Mrs Kuik differently, but I think she made that point. I thought she meant: even when it comes to explaining nitrogen policy properly, it is important that you are visible yourself. I also did this in 2019, in Overijssel, in De Peel and in other places, by starting the discussion with the farmers myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u182	Ministers are intimidated and threatened at home, in this case a minister of his own political colour, the VVD. Her kids can't walk the dog without a police officer. We all feel the unrest in society, and the Prime Minister answers here: no, I didn't feel the need to react when those riots raged. He says, no, I wasn't too quiet, I left that to my minister. Do I actually hear him say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u183	No, then you misunderstood me. I said: when that happened at Van der Wal's house, just before the VVD Congress, I immediately responded to it myself. This week, when the violence continued to increase on Tuesday, I responded myself, together with the Minister of Justice. And I did that again on Wednesday, after the terrible events in Hereden. It's not like if I respond to it, the problem is gone with it. But I have to standardize. I have to make sure that at such times the rule of authority is applied, in addition to what the Minister of Justice is doing. It is not, however, that I do so directly and first myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u184	That's exactly the feeling that there's life in society. Stay invisible. Ministers have the chestnuts taken out of the fire. Sending Minister Staghouwer to the stage without clarity and with no plan for farmers, causing great unrest. I am not talking about unrest among the thugs, but I am talking about the rest of the farmers, who are in big trouble. The Prime Minister himself said three years ago about the nitrogen problem: this is going to cause the biggest crisis in my political career. And there's no plan. There's not a plan that offers perspective. There is no clarity, because everything has yet to be sorted out. Then the Prime Minister isn't in charge, is he? Then he doesn't feel what's going on in the underbelly of this society, does he? Then he's not there, is he? Then he doesn't show up until we ask him to do so as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u185	I disagree. In 2019 and in the years after, I have also been very busy with the theme myself. In the formation we have made sure that money has been allocated, a fund has been created, a minister has been appointed, etc. I am also very much involved in shaping the policy as a whole. I thought Mrs Kuik was talking about the fact that, when the policy is put forward, you have to make sure that you are sufficiently visible yourself. I think that's a good point. I intend to. But when it comes to this week's violence, I think I might disagree on that, especially from the moment it went to the Minister, that I immediately came into the picture myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr. Paternotte. First Mrs. Chicken, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u187	If we hadn't had such a mess now, I'm sorry to say we wouldn't have had this debate together. If the Prime Minister had been sufficiently visible, we would not have been so critical here. If there had been a plan for farmers, we would not have been so critical. I really think the Prime Minister is getting over that too easily. I am now making my final point. We are now talking about a conciliation committee, while we are talking about scum. This may be the end of this debate, when we have a responsible Minister for Agriculture and a responsible Prime Minister. I want him to direct it. I don't want a commissioner. I don't want a commission. I want him to take responsibility for dealing with this scum right now. I want him to take responsibility for making a real plan for farmers to create clarity, rather than looking at a committee again or using the word'reconciliation' while we are talking about rigors. It's really a mismatch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u188	Finally, I would like to say a few words about Pieter Heerma's proposal. I think it could work. But then you shouldn't do what Mrs. Kicken now thinks is Heerma's plan. But I'm about to try to interpret that. As far as policy shaping is concerned, I have outlined my role. I mean, it's my role. I think that is also the way in which my office is carried out. That also means I have to be visible, absolutely. When it comes to the violence, it was me this week. At that point, I do not agree with Mrs Chicken. We have to be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u189	The Prime Minister said all sorts of things about demonstrations being, of course, no longer a demonstration, but intimidation. This happened, for example, with Minister Van der Wal at home. It was bizarre back then. Later, the protesters returned again. The day before yesterday, it escalated completely. It has now also happened to more politicians and people's representatives: people come to the door to try to change your mind. That's what happens when there's kids at home. When I asked Secretary of State Van der Burg about this two weeks ago, he also called it unacceptable. But he also said, unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it. My question is whether the Prime Minister thinks that we can leave it at that, or perhaps we should make sure that we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u190	I do not believe Mr Paternotte is doing exactly what Van der Burg said about it. Demonstrating is a great right, but it is true that there are limits to that right of demonstration. You can't put people in danger or intimidate them. The current instruments also offer many possibilities to prevent unwanted home visits. At the same time, I also understand Mr Paternotte's request to think about a ban on demonstrations in politicians' homes. If I understood him correctly, he said so in the first term. The Minister of Justice will look into this in a moment. But we can well imagine looking at that more closely. But it is not the case that the current instruments do not give us any possibilities in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u191	That is exactly what the Secretary of State said at the time. He said a lot of good things about it, not to the detriment of him, but he also said: "I have to say that we cannot do anything about it. We can't fight that. If people want to demonstrate at the entrance to a house, that's okay. Because yes, you can demonstrate in the Netherlands." That is why my question is: does the Prime Minister think that we could leave it at that? It is good that the Minister of Justice is about to answer our substantive question, but I am also asking the Prime Minister. Does he think that we could leave it at that "the right to demonstrate means that you could also demonstrate at the door of a representative of the people, at the door of a driver's office," when we see what its effect is now in the Netherlands, on people here in the room and on drivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u192	Then I repeat my two reactions. One. The current instruments also offer us opportunities to act in such cases. That's part one. There is that possibility. Public authority, the public administration, can intervene in such cases. Two. I agree with Fathernotte on that. This will be clarified by the Minister of Justice. We would like to examine further whether it is possible to criminalise demonstrations at home when it comes specifically to directors and politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u193	Mr Van der Staaij, SGP, and then Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u194	I don't have any questions about dealing with rioters. I simply agree with what everyone says about this: we cannot, we cannot, and we absolutely must not do so. But I think that we should not only talk about the unrest among rioters, but also about the unrest among ordinary well-intentioned farmers and citizens, who say: we have been struck by what is now coming towards us. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he recognize the image that so many people have been paralyzed by all sorts of measures and are particularly concerned about what is coming to them now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u195	Yeah, I know that for a fact. Of course, it's not new. It's not like it's coming out of nowhere. We had the ruling of the Council of State in 2019, then a first large set of measures by the previous cabinet to tackle nitrogen and now a next very large approach with money and everything else to further strengthen it, because it is just necessary. That is why I really think it is important that we achieve these goals together. But about how: how to do it with the provinces, the area-oriented approach and the area-oriented processes is extremely important. But I recognise this very much, also because an image is being created as if there is no future for farmers in the Netherlands. That is simply not the case. The farmers have a future in the Netherlands. I am convinced that in the end there will be far more farmers than there will stop. The Netherlands is being talked about with great respect around the world when it comes to our innovative capacity, the capacity to innovate and the adaptability of our agricultural sector, our farmers and gardeners. Many of these farmers are, of course, already engaged in sustainable production. That will have to be increased, especially in those areas where nitrogen emissions are a problem. That's what the cabinet's gonna support. So it is not the aim to halve the livestock, as is still claimed here and there. The aim is to reduce nitrogen emissions and restore nature, so that we will ultimately prevent acidification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u196	As the Prime Minister said, many farmers are aware of the task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u198	There were also all area-oriented processes in progress. We hear back from people from the province, from the municipality: what a pity that a nitrogen map is now being sent into the country, that we now hear that it can be done even faster and "it will be all right" while we do not see that perspective at all. Does the Prime Minister also recognise that something went wrong in that regard? What then has to be done to get that connection back there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u199	I recognize that. I'm not sure you could have prevented this altogether, because it's a very complicated issue ahead of you. This also calls for an honest saying from the cabinet "these are the goals we really need to achieve together" and then also to talk about how to do it. I'll be right back to Pieter Heerma's proposal on the occasion of former Minister Veerman. In itself, that is also the conversation that must take place now. It doesn't have to be tomorrow. We still have some time. We don't do it without consulting everyone involved. Money is also available. There is a wonderful future for most farmers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u200	Finally. What we hear from those areas such as the Gelderland Valley, and I think many colleagues too, is that there have not all been talks with ministers or that they have come into the area to see what is going on there. We hear that only a map is thrown into the area and that they run into practical things, like they still don't know how much manure they're allowed to drive out this year. That makes you feel like you're not being taken seriously at all, that you're not being seen and that your future is being threatened. That's not just because you believe certain stories, but it's a reality you deal with every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u201	I know that area well, and I recognize it. That also requires us to have that conversation much more intensively. We must also succeed in putting the perspective of the agricultural sector right. That is what the debate was about last week. We must also make it very clear that it is not only farmers who produce nitrogen but also other sectors. The point is that the story is nuanced. We must show that there is a future for the sector, but that this means a different interpretation of the future as a farmer for a number of people in that sector, perhaps even quite a few people, if they want to continue in that role. Lots of people want to go on. They're proud of their company. We need to have that conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u202	I have a question about the great vanishing act that the Prime Minister sometimes applies when there are difficult matters. I call the fall of Kabul last year. We also have an asylum crisis now. I don't see you in that either. Now we have a nitrogen crisis. Last week we witnessed the fact that there were two ministers. One had learned a lesson well by heart and the other was really looking for answers and only sent letters. Then there's a moment when you say, "I'm gonna pull that file over to me; I'm gonna do the nitrogen plan and I'm gonna show you leadership." I kind of miss that with you. Then things go wrong, and everyone's like, "Where's the Prime Minister?" Yeah, there isn't. In this way, there is a certain desperation in the country and it is only getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u203	If Mr Eppink's idea is that, if there is such a big problem, I will do so myself, then we do not agree. That's not how it works in the Netherlands. We have ministers for that. They do. My job is to ensure that ministers have the budget, that political problems are resolved and that there is support in the coalition for what we are doing. That is why I chair the ministerial committee myself. That is why I myself have been involved in the negotiation of the government agreement in which the fund was created and a separate minister has been appointed. That's how it works. You can always call me on that. Then I will find the following. That was my point towards Mrs. Kuiken just now. I thought I should understand her criticism in such a way that it is important, as I did with the Peel in 2019, in Overijssel and in other places, that you see me actively working on it. But I do not have to debate that issue here in the Chamber. That is what the trade ministers really have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u204	If society is on the rise, what we have seen over the past few weeks and which we hope will stop, of course, then is it important that there is political and moral leadership of the Prime Minister? I remember the corona crisis. That's when you made a speech. Everyone said "Rutte for President." I will not give this as an example right now, but there is a certain leadership. That is not what you are showing in this case, when you see that the gap between rural and urban is widening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u205	I doubt that, because I believe that the support for farmers in the Netherlands is also large in the cities. Eventually we in the Netherlands are of course one big city state, where people live a little more in the countryside or a little more in the city, but I think we are very connected in this small country. The people in the cities are also very connected to the farmers and the farmers are connected to the cities. That is precisely the strength of this country. We are a country with little hierarchy, equalitarian, where we maintain that social unity with each other by ensuring that we do not create that contradiction. I don't feel it either. I do feel great concern to the farmers about what that means to them. I totally get that. That is also because things need to be made even more clear. That is also inevitable. We must have talks with the farmers about how we are going to do this. So no discussion about the objective; we have to achieve it. But about: how are we going to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u206	I must conclude, then, that the Prime Minister does not know the countryside very well. That unrest is actually a crisis of existence. You can say, "I come with plans and more plans," but you have to give people a perspective for the future. I don't see that. You see it as a technical dossier and not enough as a dossier which concerns the people themselves, the farmers. I grew up in the country myself. I immediately sensed: this is going to go completely wrong. This is going to be some kind of rebellion in the Netherlands. Actually, I miss that urgency with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u207	I am glad that Mr Eppink says that, because it is not a technical dossier. There is a big problem, but that is not a technical dossier. It is a very emotional subject, because it affects the lives of many people and also the culture in rural areas, how people live with each other: social cohesion. It has huge implications. I fully recognise this, and I also ask that, as a cabinet, together with the farmers and the provinces, we manage to shape this in a way that enables us to achieve the objectives, but also to ensure that there is a strong farming sector in the country. We must also ensure that we maintain in this country that unique culture that we have in the Netherlands in rural areas. It is very different from one region to another, in Limburg and Brabant, than in Twente or Groningen and Friesland, but has a very strong local anchoring everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u208	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u209	One more question, then, or actually an invitation. I would like to welcome you to the countryside and suggest that you take a trip to different provinces to talk to the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u210	I see a nod, but I don't hear a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u211	I hear the suggestion, and I am very pleased that Mr Heerma, sorry that Mr Eppink thinks about how to shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u212	Farmers aren't scum, they're desperate. Contrary to what the Prime Minister has just said, it is a technical dossier, as a lot of files here are technical and run by people who know nothing about horns or blows. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: after all those files where we have seen that the government, sometimes simply out of good intentions, misses the scene, such as asbestos, corona, lockdowns, curfew, the Groningen story, the surcharge scandal, the Prime Minister is even there because of resignations, we are now in the nitrogen dwindling. This is a technical file. Of course, we are not going to talk about the substance of nitrogen now, because the Prime Minister is not competent in this matter, but we can do a metaspect. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that, with all good intentions, the government can just be wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u213	The government could be wrong. That's what we've seen from child care allowances. That's terrible. I don't know if the government is wrong in Groningen, but the fact is that the damage recovery and reinforcements take longer than you'd like. Moreover, I think we should avoid thinking, as I have said on many occasions, that a structural change could speed this up. In that I am speaking to the Court of Auditors and the Council of State: keep the structure as it is and ensure that you achieve maximum speed within it. Mr Van Haga and I simply disagree on corona and its approach. We have also expressed this in detail here in all kinds of debates. What matters here is that there is a big problem that directly affects our country. If we do not succeed in achieving the objectives, we will really close the country further, including through court rulings. At the same time, I realise that this is a very serious concern for many farmers. Those are proud corporate owners who, as I just said, may have just taken over the company or indeed had company succession. The picture sometimes arises that there would be no company follow-up at all. Of course it isn't. Most farmhouses are just following up on their farms and those owners want to pass on that proud business as well. That is why it is extremely important that we manage to be able to talk to the sector itself in order to achieve the objectives, but I am also convinced that this is going to happen if we are to keep a strong farming sector in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u214	These are typical bureaucratic talk. We have a big problem created by the government and there are countless technical solutions, even if you believe in that whole nitrogen oxide or ammonia problem. Even if you think that's all disastrous, you still have all kinds of solutions. Solution after solution has been proposed. My question to the Prime Minister is once again: do you think the government could be wrong here? And if so, if there is any chance that this is the case, are you prepared to look again at the basis of this problem? This can be done by a few engineers who will look at it again and see if there are any other solutions, which will at least remove this threat from the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u215	I believe that the analyses on this issue have been made and that it is not wise to say: we are going to postpone it for another year or two to make those analyses again. Those analyses have been made in detail. Those facts are all in a row. It is now up to us to follow up on this. Take one fact, for example. There is often talk of innovation. How many farmers have not innovated in recent years, having thought that this investment would lead to a real reduction in nitrogen emissions, which did not turn out to be the case in practice? That is why one of the things that I am convinced we need to talk about in the coming months is how you can make sure that if there is innovation, they are certified innovations, which really lead to less nitrogen emissions. That is crucial, otherwise we will once again ensure that farmers in this country spend a great deal of money on something that does not work or does not work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u216	This is fucking shit. The farmers have invested tremendously and the reduction in nitrogen is phenomenal. We are below European standards. Mrs van der Plas will call the exact percentages that, but I think it is 68% nitrogen reduction. It's really shit. Now we are in a system in which the government permeates the government becomes the actual perpetrator and the farmers no longer have any perspective. Rumor has it the farmers are gonna stop delivering. In my contribution, I asked the question that has not yet been answered. What will the Prime Minister do as leader of our country if the farmers do stop supplying our food?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u217	The Netherlands is an open economy. There is no reason to believe that our food security is at risk. There is no reason to seriously believe that our farmers are no longer prepared to produce.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u218	I still have a bit to recover from what I just heard about "all those innovations." That is why farmers are stuck. They say: I had to have such a low-emission stable floor, which was expensive; and now it is not good. We've been warned about that. The Court of Auditors has said that it is not working at all. RIVM says it was judged far too positive. But now I understand that we are not going to innovate but to "innovate certified." I don't think you can do that to the farmers. My point is that the Prime Minister and his party have organized their own resistance. You can just explain how awfully bad nature is and that you've always done a little bathing about it. That you've always been a little laughing about the decline of our nature, that you regret it and that you're now going to say why change is necessary. In addition, it is necessary to restore nature, but there is also a need for perspective for farmers. We had a debate on this last week. The Prime Minister himself was also on the Council of Ministers in which the letter was dealt with, which the entire Chamber said was insufficient. The Prime Minister himself agreed to that letter of more than 40 sides, in which no clarity was given to the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u219	Nor does that letter have the ambition to paint that final picture. The ambition was to ensure that we identify with each other all the topics that we need to discuss in the coming months. We must, together with the farmers, ensure that we get that perspective on paper. For that, you also need the farmers and the farmers' organisations. That's something we need to do together. What the Chamber said last week, I think, is that it has to be much faster than the cabinet is planning. Those motions have been passed, so that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u220	No, the Chamber has said in its entirety, the parties that have always fought for more natural recovery and a better transition in agriculture and the parties that reject the whole policy, that you cannot do this. You can't do this! More than 40 sides with only vagueness, while you come up with policies to reduce nitrogen. My simple question is this. That letter of vagueness which is of no use to farmers, nothing that could be opposed to the measures on nitrogen, has been dealt with in the Council of Ministers, has it not? Isn't that what the Prime Minister was responsible for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u221	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u222	Isn't that the Prime Minister's responsibility for the unrest that has arisen as a result? That's what we're talking about. Where's the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u223	I followed the debate and I saw that there was a lot of criticism of that letter. But that letter was not meant to say: this is the final picture of the future of the agricultural sector. That letter was meant to determine with each other what we are discussing in detail with the farmers over the next few weeks and months, to ensure that you know exactly where the perspective is. I think the Chamber has said two things about this. One. We'd have liked to have seen more. We have to accept that this is a judgment of the Chamber. I naturally support the letter, otherwise he wouldn't have come through the cabinet. Two. It's gotta go faster. In my view, these are the judgments of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u224	It wasn't like that. The Chamber didn't say "we'd like to see it sooner," like you're baking an apple pie and you're actually hungry right now. No, this is about what the farmers have to stash. And whether or not the parties agree with the nitrogen measures, from left to right, the Chamber said: you cannot do this to the farmers. The Prime Minister is partly responsible for this. The fact that he is now making it smaller, namely that the Chamber would have liked to have seen it sooner and that all this was not the intention, is exactly what we are calling him on. He does not feel that he has an important role to play in addressing the great social unrest that was partly caused by half-hearted work from his cabinet. Take your part and play the role of Prime Minister. Make sure you explain why nature needs to be restored and get the spirit back in the bottle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u225	I don't think there was any criticism of that first part. Why must nature be restored? I thought Mrs Ouwehand said of that: it is good that it is there. Last week there was criticism of the cabinet letter about the future. I would like to outline how this letter was sent by the cabinet and with what intention, namely: these are the subjects that we need to discuss with the sector over the next few weeks and months. What exactly is circular agriculture? What is ground-based production? All these issues need to be further developed. Mr Segers wondered what it meant, for example, for the production chains. We must also talk to industry and everyone about this. That's what it was meant to be. That was critical in the Chamber. Mrs Ouwehand asks me: how is that letter from the cabinet meant? That's what I'm sketching. I also know that last week in the Chamber there was criticism of the content and timing. I don't think I'm gonna make that smaller. All I'm saying is that, of course, I'm taking responsibility for this cabinet product. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u226	Thank you. I shall give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas. After that, I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u227	There are no further questions, because the interruptions are always the way I am through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u228	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u229	I have one more question to answer. I would like to comment on Mr Heerma's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u230	But I see that Mrs Ouwehand has something to say. And then Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u231	I didn't ask the Prime Minister how the cabinet meant the letter. He knows very well. It would be nice if he did not use his speaking time to twist words out of the Chamber. My final question is: is it really so difficult to recognise that the policy pursued by the Rutte Cabinets and the Cabinets has led to this situation? That you know that you have to deal with those nitrogen emissions, that you have to restore nature, that you have pushed farmers into the scale increase, that you have forced the farmers to innovate when you knew that those facts were just there that it would turn out to be this and that you knew that the deletion of the natural budget would turn out to be this. Is it so difficult to acknowledge this, when we hear from the good farmers everywhere: I would like to acknowledge that we have been pushed into this trap by the Rutte Cabinets?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u232	That is a different question from the question that Mrs Ouwehand asked me first about that letter. I've answered this question before. With the judge's ruling on the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, i.e. the PAS ruling in May 2019, the policy pursued by the Cabinet and the Chamber has until then been rejected. So that didn't work enough. That was simply rejected. That is why the cabinet had to turn to the Stevens and decide to take a first large package of measures: legislation to adapt the nitrogen problem and to invest heavily in nature recovery. This cabinet is taking the next very big step, with a fund of 25 billion and a separate minister. But I've admitted that before. So I'm definitely not running away from that. The judge corrected us there. We just have to be honest about that. That PAS approach didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u233	I notice something crazy is happening here. Firstly, I hear the Prime Minister say that the polls are affecting everyone, while not everyone is affected by the polls. I have no problem with the polls at all, except that we are very busy at BBB right now. That's kind of ignored. That's okay, because I can understand that it's not all that fun. Secondly, I hear the Prime Minister say: I have to go into Mr Heerma's proposal on this mediator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u234	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u235	I do not know if the Prime Minister noticed, but I was the second speaker and I advocated a mediator in my text. So I think it's a little strange that the Prime Minister is speaking specifically about Mr Heerma's proposal. I've heard him explicitly mention Mr Heerma a few times. I also understand that the coalition would like to draw it towards them, when little BBB, with one seat, suddenly comes up with a good plan. But I asked for a mediator in my input. That was a literal question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u236	I'll give the Prime Minister a chance to rule on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u237	The other introductions are always quite long, I notice, so I thought: I also use my time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u238	But my answers are still short. I'll try to answer. But now to Mrs van der Plas' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u239	Yes, because it's originally a BBB proposal. Let's actually keep it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u240	I'll leave it all to you who was first. I'm not gonna risk it, 'cause I'm gonna have a fight with everybody in a minute. So I leave that entirely to you and your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u241	But what do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u242	Let me take it from you and Mr Heerma, and also from Mr Veerman. We have goals. Unfortunately, we cannot question them. We cannot question the speed either. But there's a lot to be done. There must be talks, the processes in the provinces must be helped, there must be talks with the farmers. Mr Segers spoke just now about what else is needed in the work. That's what we want to speed up. This was also the result of last week's debate. It is not surprising then if you could find someone who is willing to start such conversations, within the framework of objectives and speed. But we're not gonna sit down at the table with the rioters. At least I'm not gonna sit with that at the table. I'm gonna tell the Minister that, too. I'm not gonna sit down at the table with someone banging a sledgehammer on a police bus. But with the vast majority of farmers, who are just as annoyed by this as the majority here in the House of Representatives, we are looking for the conversation, and also with industry. How are you going to ensure that this value also reaches the farmer, and not just the large producers or the intermediaries, and that the shopkeepers also notice something about it? The point is that a fair price is paid for a fair product. That proposal, to let someone help us get that started and get some rest in the discussion, I understand very well. I do not know whether it was a proposal from Mrs Van der Plas or Mr Heerma, but I could imagine it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u243	It would be very good if there was indeed a mediator who would first remove the stinger. Then follow the more intimate conversations. But for now, that's the most important thing. The Prime Minister also said something about food security. That is a sign that the Prime Minister and perhaps several people in the Chamber do not know what is going on. The farmers have indeed said that they may stop supplying food. Then the Prime Minister says that food security will not be compromised. But a few years ago there was freezing rain in Groningen, I don't know if you remember, and then the milk couldn't be picked up for three days. There was a huge milk shortage at the time. People almost knocked each other in the brains for a pack of yogurt. So there's definitely going to be a problem. If we don't have our own food in the store anymore, okay? Of course, we also have other food. But if other countries in the world, for whatever reason, do not deliver deficits themselves, keep food to themselves, and our farmers do not supply any more, then we will have a food problem. I would like the Prime Minister to take the problem seriously. Look, it's not like we can't buy milk for a day. And of course quinoa, rice, coffee, tea and chocolate are still in the shop. Until other countries don't deliver either. If there is no longer a structural supply, that is a serious problem. I hope the Prime Minister takes that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u244	Yes, of course. It was my answer to Mr Van Haga's question. Of course I take that seriously. What I'm just sketching is that we're an open economy. I do not expect farmers to say that they will stop producing tomorrow. There's no indication of that, is there? Why would we do that to each other? We want to solve this problem now. And we want another future for the sector. That's the point. But of course there are all kinds of scenarios in which you could actually have a food problem. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u245	I think Mr Heerma also wanted to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u246	Yes, on this subject. Thank you, Mr. Klaver, for letting me go first. The Prime Minister will respond to a proposal. Many here have cited good ideas, but I have not made any proposal that I have come up with. I referred to a proposal made yesterday in the news by former Minister Veerman and this morning in the newspaper. That was also mentioned by Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers and Mrs Hermans. A lot of parties and I, too, have indicated in their term that this is a good idea that can help to throw oil on the waves and get the conversation going. I think it is a good idea that an independent chairman can play a role in coming back on speaking terms. The Prime Minister seems to agree. Can he also indicate that the cabinet intends to do so? And that the Cabinet intends to do so in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u247	Yes, of course, but indeed as Mr Heerma himself said. I think it is important that we are honest with each other that the speed and objectives are not under discussion. That is how I understood Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u248	Is the Cabinet prepared to send a letter within a week on how it sees fit? I imagine you don't have the person at the time. It would be best if that were the case, but I would ask you to at least outline how this can be achieved in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u249	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u250	Thank you. Let me take a look at Mr Segers. Do you have any interruptions at this point? That's the case. Thanks to Mr. Clover, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you to the chairman and to Mr Klaver. It goes very quickly from the process to the content, but I can see that there are a lot of misunderstandings, even when it comes to content. They are about the status of the ticket, about the space that provinces have and about the broad approach that the Prime Minister himself underlines, namely that industry, aviation and all kinds of other sectors should also contribute. They are about us entering a process where we share the burden fairly. So we are also going very quickly towards the content. We do not need to discuss that content there immediately, but it would be good to outline backgrounds and reflect on how the cabinet's communication came across. That's about the perspective that should have been clearer. That is indeed about the status of the ticket. I therefore believe that self-reflection will help in this respect and that bridges can be built very quickly which will eventually lead to a substantive discussion. Is the cabinet prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u252	Yes. Anyway, if you're having a conversation like that, you should talk to each other about what happened in the last few weeks. I just don't want to sell tubers for lemons here, just to stay in the sector for a while. This means that, unfortunately, the targets will not go down or the speed will not go down, if that idea were to arise. But if with these conditions someone from outside can really help get that conversation going again, and then, of course, talk about what happened here... So that is not with those rioters, but with the vast majority of farmers who are very concerned, who want to move forward and who want to know what their future is. The answer is "yes" when they say: can I please think with myself, because it is about us now, and not us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u253	I very much agree with what the Prime Minister says. You shouldn't want to talk to someone who hits a police car with a hammer. You do have to aim for the good farmers. Among them are farmers who are genuinely afraid that something might happen to them in terms of farm, while they are farmers in a way that is actually the way of the farmer of the future. I believe that Mr De Groot has tabled a motion on this point. I therefore believe that a lot of misunderstandings can be removed and that then we will go much faster to the substantive discussion, which is so bitterly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u254	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u255	That is indeed with clarity about the direction that we need to take, the goals that stand and the burdens that we need to share fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u256	Sure. I was at the end of my speaking time anyway, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u257	Only Mr. Klaver left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u258	I would like to say the following in response to Mr Segers. There would be no future for farmers in the Netherlands. That's not true. There is a future for farmers in the Netherlands. We continue to have a very strong agricultural sector. I am convinced that there will be more farmers than there will stop. We were going to halve the cattle. That's not the issue at all. We want to reduce those nitrogen emissions. It would only be about farmers. No, it concerns all sectors that contribute to this. It should all be tomorrow. There wouldn't be any money. None of that is true. We're gonna do it territorially, with the provinces. We also take the time to discuss this with each other in a good way and to see how you can deal with farmers who still want to go on, although it may not be in that place and with that size. I liked what Mr Segers himself referred to as examples. This is also because of the other issues that lie ahead when it comes to the management of nature. That is all that matters. I am glad that I can mention it again, even for the farmers who are listening now. I am not really going to take away the concerns, but at least that gives me the opportunity to make the most of the misunderstandings myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u259	I was trying to follow the interrupting debate. There seems to be some kind of consensus now. One of the most important results of last week's debate, which lasts 12 hours, was that provinces start to work and talk to farmers and other stakeholders. So the whole conversation we're talking about right now would start. The only additions are that the Minister now has to go back to that, when it has been agreed that the processes of the region are in place, and that the Minister for Agriculture has to do all his homework again. He has to have the conversation about what the perspective is. He'll get a side wheel, say, with help from someone on the outside. I have great doubts about that. I would really like to give you that in your consideration. I have faith in the ministers. I have faith in the provinces. They're gonna have to take this conversation further. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u260	May I respond briefly? As far as I'm concerned, that's not gonna change anything either. I agree with Klaver's summary. Only, there are two aspects to it. One. There's nothing against saying the following. The two ministers are holding a few sessions with the farmers and their organisations to see what they are going to see in the coming period and how they are going to go about that process. That does not alter what Mr Klaver just summarized. Two. This gives the Minister of Agriculture, who is now going to speed up his vision of the future of the sector, an opportunity to look with farmers and their organisations at what is needed for this. In that sense, it doesn't bite each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u261	I think the only addition is that we need outside help. That is what the conclusion is. I wanted to ask a question about Mrs Ouwehand's point. I would like to say this in advance. Sometimes it seems as if the Prime Minister could have prevented violence by acting differently. I disagree. I certainly don't want to suggest that with the questions I ask. This is the responsibility of the rioters and of no one else. However, Mrs Ouwehand did ask a fair question. You say: we are faced with a judge's ruling in 2019 and I accept that. That's a little too easy, because it's easy to accept a verdict. The point is, when you were Prime Minister, the PAS was adopted. There's been cuts in the nature budget. The robustness of nature has decreased. You're responsible for the entire government policy. It would be very helpful if you would say: sorry for what we have done in recent years; we have made the wrong choices. The CDA representative did so earlier in the debate. Those wrong choices were made not only from 2019, but also in the years before. I've never heard the Prime Minister say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u262	I do not think we have made the wrong choices since 2019, but we did. I've said that before. I just said that in reply to Mrs Ouwehand. The PAS statement shows that the approach we had was wrong. The judge said the approach didn't work. By the way, I am going to stand for the cuts on nature. We've had to reverse 52 billion since 2010. The same goes for the Defense Department; that's quite a thing for a VVD. But nature is also very essential for VVDs. All the other cases and burdens that we have had to do since 2010, we have done so to get out of the biggest post-war recession. It was inevitable that all sectors contributed to this. That's what I stand for. So I'm facing these cuts. But I do agree with Mr Klaver that the approach that we thought could help has not worked. It was not supported by Mr Klaver, but it was supported by a majority in the Chamber. Mr Klaver was on the right side of history. That approach didn't work. That's bad indeed. I'd like to apologize for that, too. Of course, I always want to do that when things don't work. It didn't work. This is also one of the reasons why we are facing a crisis from 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u263	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u264	This can be a little bigger and a little more generous. I am not asking for a review of government policy as a whole. I am not saying: how much you have cut the Netherlands down. You can't hear that. I'm not asking about that. Henk Bleker himself says that we should have worked on a more robust nature. He's been responsible for the cuts. In 2014 the PAS came. The nature budget is halved. We see that wrong turns have been made. You can now say the following. "What the government has done to farmers has been wrong. We have created the illusion that farmers can continue to grow. We have said that by investing in more animals they are on the right track. That was wrong." I was at a television show yesterday. I was sitting at the table with a farmer. He's from the same region I was born in. Afterwards, we talked. He said: I have colleagues who have invested in circular agriculture with the best intentions in recent years, who are now in uncertainty as to whether they can move forward. It would be extremely helpful if you, as leader of the cabinet team of the last 12 years, said: we did not do well; we really screwed up nitrogen policy; sorry about that. That would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u265	I just said I was sorry about the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. It didn't work. Mr Klaver adds all kinds of things that I do not agree with. I want to be very precise. It is not that Mr Klaver puts my sorry on paper and then I sign it. I'm sorry. I'm sorry about the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. The judge said in 2019: he goes to the trash can; he didn't work. Isn't it done with the best of intentions? Yes, of course, that happened with the best of intentions. The cabinet in front of the previous cabinet was sitting there the VVD and the Labour Party in.. has done so with the best of intentions. That was with broad support from the Chamber. Turns out it didn't work. It's been set aside by the judge. If farmers are angry about that, I totally understand. That's one. So I'm sorry about that. Mr Klaver adds a lot of things to that. I disagree with some of those points. That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u266	I'm always in favour of you not saying sorry if you don't feel that way, but I think it's a missed opportunity and I'm not gonna bring up that much. I was talking quite specifically about the cuts in nature policy. I am not concerned with the cuts in the budget or with the task we were faced with at the time. As a result, the quality of nature in the Netherlands has decreased. I am talking about asking farmers to invest in all kinds of barn systems that did not ultimately solve the nitrogen problem. I think it is good to achieve an even broader recognition of the problems that exist and which not only depend on the Programmed Approach Nitrogen. That is what I am asking for, because I think it is better for the leader of this cabinet team to say 'we did not do well' and'sorry, we are going to do better' than to appoint a mediator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u267	I think it's a good thing that I decide what I'm sorry for. And again, I stand for the whole package of cuts from the previous cabinets. Because we intervened when needed, we are now the fastest growing economy in the Western world. We've cut back on Defense, on nature and on many other things that were essential. It was necessary to go to hell because otherwise we would have ended up in an unsustainable financial crisis. Unfortunately, this included the nature budgets, but that was inevitable. It was just necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u268	Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u269	I have a question about how the Prime Minister sees this independent President. He is crystal clear: the pace and goals stand and the provinces simply have to get to work. But two important things have actually emerged from Tuesday's votes. In fact, the provinces need to work on the area-based approach to reduce nitrogen and the cabinet needs to work on what is always called "perspective." In other words, the cabinet simply needs to make concrete what is going to be done with the 25 billion that the Prime Minister mentioned to give farmers a sustainable future; the battle for sustainable agriculture. Where exactly does he see a role for that independent president? Is it mainly in the plans that the provinces are going to make or, above all, in the plans that the cabinet is going to make to help the farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u270	I know that Mr Paternotte closes me to supernatural abilities. I appreciate that, but the whole idea was launched here two hours ago by Mr Heerma. It comes from a thought of Mr. Veerman. I was in Madrid today for other things, but I've seen that come by somewhere. But I haven't really had the opportunity to go into that very deeply. But I can very well imagine that there are two things going on. The first is that the provinces are working on the timetable and the goals we have agreed on. But there is nothing against having another conversation with the farmers' organisations: "We are going into this whole process now. How do we look back on the last few weeks, on the riots and on the situation in the country? Let's just take a look at each other and discuss it with each other." There's nothing against that. The second is that we must continue to implement this agricultural vision. There is nothing against having the first round of talks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u271	I was just about to thank the Prime Minister for his answer, but there is another question from Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u272	I had asked a question in my contribution, not directly to the cabinet, but to the Prime Minister. I had made the point that the government is not on their side for more and more people. I've made a point of some kind of alienation, because we're seeing more and more groups coming into action right now. Today it is about the farmers, but tomorrow, I believe, the general practitioners on the Malieveld stand. One group after another comes into action and protests. More and more people simply experience that the government is not there for them. I am curious to hear from the Prime Minister how he sees it and whether he sees a role for himself there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u273	Of course, that role is always there for the foreman of the cabinet. It means that all internal decision-making is coordinated by me, but it does not mean that I am defending every policy. I do, of course, do so in the major debates, which I also have with Mrs Marijnissen on Princess Day and on other occasions. We are now seeing that in the Netherlands, to begin with, we are coming out of a terrible corona crisis. It has far-reaching consequences, for example, at the moment, for a large number of people who have to deal with the consequences. That still puts enormous pressure on health care. The second thing we see is that Russia's terrible aggression against Ukraine has led to rising prices and rising energy prices. As a result, people, especially low-income people and middle-class people, are having a hard time in this country. So we also have to consider how we deal with it. We've taken steps for that, too. We will come to that later next week in the spring note. This cabinet must, for good reasons, take further action on the question of nitrogen. But we have to do this in a way that there will also be a future for a strong farming sector in the Netherlands. We must continue to fight nonsense and talk to the farmers themselves about that future. When you as a society and politics are dealing with such large transitions, it is inevitable that there will be a reaction in society. And it's not a problem to demonstrate. That is an expression of opinion and discontent, which you have to learn with respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u274	Mr. Chairman. I think this is too easy. Of course, it's not about demonstrating. The point is that an increasingly growing group of people in the Netherlands has less and less confidence in the cabinet, in politics in general but certainly also in the cabinet. I mentioned in my contribution, for example, the parents affected by the supplement scandal, who are still waiting for a solution. I mentioned the Groningen. I mentioned the people who are actually seeing prices rise now but not their incomes. I think it should be on the table tonight, too. I'm curious to hear more about that from the Prime Minister. It is not just about the fact that groups take action and demonstrate. I think it's much more substantial than that. It's about trust and maybe more than that. We see that an increasingly large part of the Netherlands is simply losing out on the whole democratic system. For example, they are not going to vote anymore. As a result, they are much less represented here. I'm just curious how the Prime Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u275	Mr. Chairman. We are a society in which we have a great deal of faith in each other, and where there is currently little confidence in politics. By the way, that's not unique. Over the past 11, 12 years, I've experienced a lot of low confidence. That's part of the big transitions, too. Then you have a very specific question to ask yourself why. Mrs Marijnissen has touched on a number of very specific issues, for example the childcare allowance and Groningen, where there has been a lot of discussion: can you do it differently so that things go faster? In my opinion, the consensus is now among most, including among all our advisers from the Court of Auditors and the Council of State: do not change the systems again, but try to achieve the maximum speed within how it is now designed. But don't change everything again. We have done so too often, which led to additional delays. But of course they are very large files in themselves, very different. The childcare allowance is a total scandal, over which a cabinet has resigned. And Groningen is a nightmare, in which the gas extraction has ended, with at this moment the big issue of damage recovery and the reinforcement operation. As far as people's purchasing power is concerned, the cabinet has taken a lot of measures. I have just said something about this: the €800 for the lowest incomes and according to legislation, the minimum wage will continue to rise from tomorrow and the energy tax will also go down. The latter, by the way, by direct government policy. The discussion is: should you do more on top of that? That is the debate in the spring paper. We'll get on with that next week. So we have all these issues to look at, but it is not unusual that when there are so many things at the same time and so many transitions happen at the same time, confidence in us when politics is much lower at such times, while we are still a society with high mutual trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u276	We know from the Prime Minister that he's pulling everything away from each other and trying to define everything as isolated, isolated things. I don't think that's the case. A few weeks ago, I believe, the Prime Minister also suggested that the low confidence was mainly due to the House of Representatives. We then ended up in a discussion about neoliberalism, which the Prime Minister said "I don't recognize it at all; in fact, I wouldn't even like to live in a country that is neoliberal." But of course it has everything to do with each other, and that's why we see that an ever larger growing group in the Netherlands is just dropping out. Because every day they experience that politics is not there for them, that the government is not on their side. Of course you are talking about the people affected by the surcharge scandal and the people from Groningen, but the group is much bigger. The group of people who are now worried about rising prices is much larger. And the constant factor is, of course, the Rutte cabinet. So it's really too easy to pull all that apart right now. Tonight we are standing here about the peasants. This cabinet under the leadership of VVD and CDA...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u277	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u278	Yes, Mr. Chairman, we started at 7:30, and this is the first time I've been standing here! It is of course also the case that farmers under the leadership of VVD and CDA have been encouraged for years to participate and participate in the scaling-up. And now they are indeed being presented with a plan in which there is no perspective. It has already been mentioned this evening. That is the direct reason why we are now standing here. But the constant factor is that it is a Cabinet Rutte and what we see is that people's confidence is falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u279	Mr. Chairman. As I said, it is not unusual in our recent political history that confidence in major social changes, large transitions, is often low. As far as my own role is concerned, I naturally have a special responsibility in the eyes of the people as the foreman of the cabinet and as the main politician of the Netherlands. This is reflected in our democratic process of elections, in which the electorate ultimately determines in sovereignty how they are judged and what result that gives in the composition of this House of Representatives. And that's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u280	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's contribution. Then we're gonna listen to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are not talking about the large group of farmers here today who are concerned about the future of their business. Those farmers have every right to express their concerns loudly. That doesn't have to be neat, as long as it's within the limits of the law. It's concerns this cabinet understands. As has just been said, this is a group for which my colleague Mr Van der Wal is working hard to clarify. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a limited group of rioters tonight. They're people who ram a police car with cops in it with a trigger; call it a "screw."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u282	The Minister has just begun, Mr. Van Meijeren. Is it okay if the minister just... yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u283	They put road users at risk and look for politicians at home. We won't tolerate that. It has nothing to do with demonstrating. It has nothing to do with your concern. It has nothing to do with saying you don't agree with the cabinet. So we have no choice but to intervene, because it is up to the cabinet to keep the road user safe, to ensure that politicians and the press can do their job safely and to protect the policemen who are there for our safety. Mr. Chairman. I am extremely proud to see that our agents, despite the threats, do and continue to do their jobs. I have incredibly much respect for the mayors standing there and ensuring that the streets are kept as safe as possible. And I find it incredibly good that the D.A. is doing everything in its power to track down people who have put others at risk and to tackle them quickly and hard. I say it again, that does not affect my respect for people in this country who normally express their concerns. Mr. Chairman. I've got three more folders here. I'll start with the powers. Then I'll give you a preview of the next few days. Questions were asked about Monday. And then there's the NCTV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u284	Let me take a look at Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u285	I referred to the very first sentence which the Minister said, namely that she fully understands protests, that everyone can be heard and that everyone can express his discontent, as long as that happens within the limits of the law. That is a position that all parties are actually expressing here, but which the Forum for Democracy does not agree with, because we believe that violations of law can also be legitimised for a higher purpose. My question to the Minister is: does she understand that there are farmers who are so desperate that they talk after years, when they have never been heard but have been ignored and demonized, simply see no other way out but to seek out the boundaries of the law and to sometimes break them for a higher purpose, namely their security of existence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u286	There are cops listening with us right now, policemen who have a family, who have children and who go out on the streets day and night for our safety. While we are hiding from danger, they are taking a step forward. Then they're in a police car to protect politicians and to make sure things calm down on the street, and they're hit by a trigger. With all due respect, you're insane when you come here to ask for understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u287	As I have said very clearly, I am a great supporter of peaceful resistance and we reject any form of violence at all times, from whatever angle that comes. At the same time, we are talking about violations of law such as slow driving on the highway and a number of actions announced next Monday that are being carried out peacefully for a higher purpose. My question is: does the Minister understand these forms of violation of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u288	That's right, no. Consciously putting people at risk, think of other road users and police people, intimidate the press and intimidate politicians: no, I don't understand. I refuse to pretend here that a majority of farmers do it this way. People have every right to worry and to be against everything that we decide here with each other. People have every right to do that. In a rule of law, you have incredibly many ways to demonstrate. But I am not going to stand here as Minister of Justice and Security and talk a little along to trivialize the violence and intimidation. This debate has been requested following the footage of the last few days. I've seen them. I talked to the cops. I talked to the politicians. I talked to the reporters. Mr Van Meijeren should do the same and take his work seriously here and stand up for those people as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u289	I would like to remind you that it is really not right to call for unlawful acts. I would warn you not to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u290	The Minister is making a trick out of this, because I said quite explicitly that I am not talking about violence or threats of violence, etc. I am talking about the forms of civil disobedience that we see, which the Minister is now abandoning. She says: protest must always be within the limits of the law. I find that interesting, because in 2015 she wrote a column for NRC Handelsblad. In it she says: "Every society needs activists, volunteers, idealists and demonstrators, and not only that. Every society also needs citizens who occasionally kick against the established order to enforce changes in the form of civil disobedience." Is the minister still behind this column? And would she like to take back her words that she has just said that protest in violation of the law in the form of civil disobedience can indeed be legitimised, as she was so enthusiastic about it in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u291	I started my line here with that I have every understanding. Besides, it's not even relevant if I have all the understanding. My job is to protect the people who want to demonstrate against our policies, who are activists, who like them, in their right to do so. I always will. Plus, I understand, especially when they hear what it's about tonight, what the debates are about. I simply cannot believe that Mr Van Meijeren, on the occasion of... This debate has been requested following the footage of the last few days. You see a family getting intimidated. You can see a police car with cops getting hit by a trigger. You can see the press is intimidated. Putting that under the category of "civil disobedience" and saying, "I don't care about that, and I'm standing up for people who do that now?" No. There's no gray area there. Using violence, using intimidation is never good. I would expect everyone in this house to stand up for the rule of law and stand up for the people who serve our rule of law. Those are the people I just mentioned who were being attacked. My task as Minister of Justice and Security is to ensure that you can demonstrate against everything we find and think of here. But the moment you cross borders and engage in violence, you're no longer demonstrating. Then you're supposed to get caught and appear before a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u292	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u293	The Minister again pretends that I am talking here about violence, when I have said in every input that this is not at all about it. It's about the forms of civil disobedience. By definition, they're nonviolent. You yourself quote Schuyt's dissertation in your column. He has ten criteria, of which nonviolence is always one. But also any form of civil disobedience is a violation of the law. In that 2015 column, I see that the Minister, who was still a member of the VVD, is in favour of civil disobedience and recognises that this can strengthen democracy. I therefore hope that the farmers who also read and take to heart the actions they are about to carry out, and I naturally always hope that they will remain peaceful, that violations of the law to be heard in the form of civil disobedience are very healthy in democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u294	The examples quoted by Mr Van Meijeren are examples that have put others at risk. It's not like he quoted examples that were innocent and weren't wrong with anything. There's a reason we're standing here. There is a reason why we are standing here in the Chamber this week, when it should be about farmers who are concerned about the policy or how we can protect our agents and support them on the streets right now. The reason we're standing here is that violence has been used, that people have been intimidated and that people have been harassed. It's not about a few playful actions that sand a little against the edge. It's not pure activism what was going on. If Mr Van Meijeren wants to ignore that, fine. I'll always refuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u295	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u296	I was at my first folder, and those are the powers. The first question I have in front of me is from Mr Van der Staaij: does the local triangle have room to make own considerations? I've heard a lot of questions, including what's possible locally. I'll come back to that later. But this, I think, is a very fundamental one. The responsibility for public order and security, which we are talking about here in particular, lies with the mayor, the local police and the district attorney. Yes, the local triangle has all the space and all the possibilities. I will come back to a number of other questions later. It is perhaps also good to say that last week they were all given an action framework. It's made up with mayors, police, prosecutors and NCTV. It is a kind of framework of action that says: this is probably all going to happen. In addition, it is of course very nice to have similar responses in the various municipalities, with space for customization. So there are also additional frameworks, additional handles added for those who consider it necessary. Mrs. Kuik asked if I am prepared to apply the football law. As with football matches, in the situations we are talking about, I think it is right to make a really good distinction between people who, like football, simply want to enjoy a game of football and those who then run into riots. I don't call them football supporters either, but I call them scum, just like Mrs. Kuik did just now. For that, we really have the means to act. Locally, what we call the football law can already be used, i.e. instruments that provide measures to combat football vandalism and serious nuisance. This means, for example, that mayors, prosecutors and judges may impose bans on the territory, bans on contact, bans on groups and reporting obligations in the event of disturbances of public policy. So we can do it now. That's not reserved for football casuism. It can also be used preventively, in case of disturbances, at first offenders. And if a person breaks the law, the police and the prosecution are on. Which means the police are investigating to track down the suspect. In short: it is possible. Several Members have asked: can it be criminalized to visit politicians at home? There is also a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr D66 on this subject. Demonstrating is a fundamental right and a great good. It has been said all evening, but let me add it here as well: that is not a licence to break the law. You don't make a point by putting other people at risk, intimidating them, breaking stuff or causing serious nuisance. In that case, as has been said, there is no question of exercising the right to demonstrate. Despite the fact that the current instruments already have a lot of possibilities against unwanted house visits, I do understand what is being looked for now, because the images we have seen over the past few weeks are images that we all do not want to see. Quite specifically, a mayor, if necessary, could take other decisions at a location very locally, by saying: no, we do not want a demonstration there. But I understand very well that a more overarching story is being asked here. That is why I also give the Sneller/Van der Werf motion the appreciation judgment Chamber, also on behalf of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. This means that my colleague from BZK and I are prepared to investigate how the unwanted and unannounced visits of politicians at home can be tackled more strictly because of their political convictions, or can be prohibited, for example by law or by other legal and administrative instruments. We will ensure that later this year, at the latest by the end of this year, we will inform your Chamber of how this can be done. But I say again: there can be a lot of specific things at the location. Look, for example, at what is happening in Hereden, where an emergency regulation has been proclaimed. This means that there are very different rules for demonstrating. But I do understand what this is looking for, so I will pick this up, of course with my colleague from BZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u297	Would it be all right if I gave Mr Paternotte the floor first? I think this is about the Sneller motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u298	Yes, thank you. That's great. Thank you for the government's eagerness to do so, because I think that perspective is important. At the same time, the Minister also says: there can be quite a lot now, because look at this emergency regulation. That's true, but that emergency regulation came after police vans were smashed. There have been two demonstrations there before. We've all seen how intense that was, how intimidating that was; the Prime Minister called it "big." There are more people's representatives who are doing the same thing now. Can the Minister also promote the timely deployment of these emergency regulations, precisely in order to prevent what happened the night before yesterday at the home of Minister Van der Wal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u299	Those are always local considerations, so they're made by the mayor, the police and the state attorney's office. What we always do is give mayors more tools. That is what we have done now with an action framework. At least we remind them that they can act in a certain way. You don't see this often in every municipality. In some municipalities it is more common than in others. I think it's important to say the following. A lot happened last week. A lot of visible and invisible measures have been taken, both locally and by us when it comes to a person. It's not like nothing's been done and things just got out of hand. It's building up. They're working on it in front. They'll switch on quickly. An emergency regulation has so many powers in it. You've got to make sure it's really good at the time and don't bet it too early. If the question in this context is whether I want to bring to the attention of mayors that this option exists, then the answer is: sure. We have a lot of conversations like this. I'll see the mayors again soon. Then we'll look back together on what's happened over the past few weeks. So that's what I can take with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u300	This was, by the way, about the motion in part No. 9 (36062), the motion Sneller/Van der Werf. It was submitted to the estimate. That's what we're going to vote on next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u301	My question is also about that motion. I understand that the Minister says that she is giving that judgment to the Chamber, so she is prepared to investigate that. I understand the thought behind the motion, especially in the light of what we all see now. It is completely undesirable that politicians, or anyone else, should be visited and threatened at home. At the same time, our group also has some feeling of discomfort. That has two reasons. You want to be approachable as a politician, as a representative of the people. At least I think so. You don't want some kind of no-goareas around politicians, do you? My first question to the Minister is how she sees it. Then there's my second question. I also find it undesirable that there should be some sort of derogation for politicians, because we know, unfortunately, that everyone agrees with this, of course, that there are, for example, agents who are intimidated and threatened at home, just like their families, or judges, or other groups. So my second question to the Minister is: does she not think it would be undesirable for politicians to have some sort of derogation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u302	I understand both questions, especially the latter, because I have that inconvenience myself, to be honest. But I think it would be very good to include it in this investigation. Do you really want to do this generic for a particular group? Then the demarcation as proposed here is the most sustainable. Should you be dealing with that in a different way? I think that's how we're gonna have to fly it wide. I fill it out a little bit for the proposers, but I think that's what they're looking for too. How can you have more control over this and make sure our police and the mayors have more tools in their hands? Then there is another element that Mrs Marijnissen quite rightly mentioned in this context. It is perhaps a good thing to say that we have seen recently that the addresses of agents and journalists were shared and that they were then visited at home. We must also try to ban it in the front. That's the so-called "doxing," which is that you share address information with the aim of intimidating people and looking for them at home. This is how you try to protect all the groups that are taking a step forward for us. I'm taking an extra step now, because I didn't match it with BZK, but I think it makes great sense for it to fly wide, so that if you would do it specifically for politicians, you can well justify why. Perhaps it is more interesting or interesting in a different way. But the need to see if we've got it well arranged and delineated with each other, I'll share it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u303	I was pleased to hear Mrs Marijnissen's question, because it also lived with our group. It was also a little bit on the point that the motion was formulated in such a way that it asked to examine it, so that it could be prohibited by law. It says: in what way. But I also think the or-question is very important. Are there indeed problems that lead to a legislative change? My question is: are we going to say without proper research that it has to be done or is there also room to raise the or question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u304	I'll fill it out like this. In any case, I am very much looking for the way in which we can better control or control the unwanted and unannounced home search of politicians in this case. There are politicians who are really being searched for their policies at home because of their political beliefs, their views, and are actually being pressured or are trying to change the policy. That could perhaps be dealt with by banning or by other means. That is why I also said that I want to see if there are any legal and administrative instruments. So I'd like to go a little wider. So it's not like I'm saying right now, okay, then we're just gonna do that and then we're gonna ban the demonstration there. So I think I'm going a long way towards Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u305	Indeed, it is a meaningful nuance of the operative part for me. The Minister actually says: then I read the operative part, that... Then I am curious to hear from the proposers whether they do indeed share that reading. That can make a difference to the voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u306	Meanwhile, I'm getting a message from the Secretary of State. So I'll have to be a little less reluctant, because I'm on her part, too. But we're gonna fly it wide. Mrs van der Plas had a question about banning tractors at demonstrations. Wasn't that a question from Mrs. Van der Plas? I thought it was kind of creative. But at least someone would like to ban tractors at demonstrations. Driving a tractor on the highway is already forbidden. Mrs van der Plas, you did not say this at all. I say this to Mrs Ouwehand. Driving the tractor on the highway is already forbidden. This is clearly communicated by the cabinet and by the police, especially in recent weeks. The use of the tractor in which the use as a means of coercion, for example for a blockade, is not covered by the right of demonstration. There can be no grey area about that; that is really very clear. Demonstrations are therefore not a licence for infringement of law or cross-border conduct with tractors. It's up to local authority, so it's up to the mayor and the police, to take measures that are most effective at the time. It's one thing you've forbidden, but if it does happen, you have to look at what works most effectively and de-escalatingly, and you name it. But the police can act, no matter how difficult sometimes, against tractors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u307	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u308	I've already corrected it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u309	Relax, I'm not here for that at all. A tractor is a vehicle. A tractor can just drive on the road. A tractor can't drive on the freeway. Suppose there's another demonstration and farmers take their tractors to the demonstration. That's okay, 'cause it's just a vehicle, so they can go over the road. What does the Minister look like if there were very strict enforcement? 'Cause then they'll go through the cities. Then they go on the N-roads early in the morning, where children cycled and people cycled. The way I see it, and I ask the Minister how she looks at it. But a farmer doesn't leave his tractor at home at a demonstration. We can't like that, but it's just not gonna happen. When I came from Stroe back to The Hague, I drove on the highway. The tractors drove to the right. That's what it was agreed to do, because it was the safest way. The jobs just stayed free and you could just keep driving. It's a lot safer than saying, "You can't take the trigger on the freeway"? Because then they go over those N-roads and through the cities and through the villages. Of course, that situation is much more risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u310	I understand what Mrs van der Plas is asking me, but I think she should be able to expect me to always say that the law applies to everyone. Tractors aren't allowed on the highway. That's what it is. I also got the question in relation to demonstrations. We've seen footage of farmers who didn't quite follow the rules, but then went off the road or listened to the police. That is true and I believe that it has been well handled and resolved in good consultation. But we have also seen a lot of images where there were blockades and there were dangerous situations. In any case, we should not create a grey area from The Hague. It is always about how one acts locally, but there can be no misunderstanding about a number of things. You can't use it as leverage. "On the way from one location to another location" is not a demonstration. I think we need to be very clear about all these elements in order to be able to tell the people who want to demonstrate within the rules what those rules are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u311	The last interruption, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u312	I think you should distinguish between blocking the highway and driving on the highway towards a demonstration. Blocking the highway is prohibited, period. If I'm gonna do that with my Suzuki, I can't. That's also a criminal offence. If there are thousands of tractors from all over the Netherlands driving to a location, you can choose to say: okay, it is not allowed, but we have to regulate this a bit, otherwise we will have a road safety problem in all villages and cities. Although it is forbidden by law, I can imagine that, for reasons of safety, you choose to say: let's just allow it, but on that one lane and not on the escape lane. And as I saw it at the last demonstration, that went quite well in almost all places in the Netherlands. I understand the Minister can't say: it's not allowed by the law, but do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u313	You're not calling for unlawful acts, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u314	No, definitely not, I never will. That is clear. The button of Van der Plas has been turned on again. I can imagine that it will be part of the discussion on how it will be handled at the next demonstrations. How are we going to regulate and manage this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u315	Look, those kind of conversations are very valuable anyway, at any demonstration. Those conversations always take place with the mayor, the local police and the state's attorney's office. That is what I would always want, whether it be farmers who take the train walking or take the trigger, or whether they are other protesters. If you do that in good consultation and are clear about what you're planning, where you're going and how you're going to follow the rules, that conversation is always possible in our country. I can, of course, only lay down the rules very clearly from here. The reason we're standing here is because we've also seen images that really weren't nice to see. Next, it is a local consideration of how people are dealt with when they say: this is my plan. In an ideal situation this is a good conversation with good dialogue and the situation is manageable. I know this happened in a lot of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u316	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u317	Yes. Then I had Mrs Hermans here asking if the Minister would like to extend the public service ban so that political officials would also be included. The bill of censure is now in the First Chamber. I can see why she's quoting this here. It is unacceptable for politicians to be threatened and even to be subjected to violence. It is unacceptable for our aid workers to deal with this, agents, journalists, and that is no different for our fellow ministers, MPs, council members and mayors. I would like to examine what I can do with this comment. The proposal is now in the First Chamber. If I may interpret the question in such a way that I can look at how we can deal with it and whether it can be involved at all, and then it will be examined whether there is a majority in favour of it, I would like to take it with me and say that we are going to investigate it. Mrs. Kuik asked if we could investigate whether rioters could be classified as criminal groups. Identifying suspects as criminal groups is a matter for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. In the past this has certainly been investigated and done at other kinds of demonstrations. I cannot sit in their seats, but this is at least how Mrs Kuik made this sound. When it comes to a criminal group, it will also be dealt with. Then I'll come to my next folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u318	There's a question from Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u319	I shall be brief and have a supplementary question. I've suggested him before, ma'am, the Minister knows that. Excuse me, I wanted to start with a first name, it's getting late. A lot takes place online via Telegram groups and online registrations. We're talking community service and land bans, but I'm also looking for a digital restraining order or something similar to that. Does the Cabinet have anything in that context? I know it's all complicated and technically difficult, but I think the need to deal with what is happening virtually increases. What can we expect from this minister on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u320	Well, that's a very natural little bridge to my next folder. The first question is also from Mrs Kuik: is the police prepared for new actions? Yeah, I'd say they're well prepared. It's not the first time we've been through this kind of thing. Our police are also very well known worldwide for the de-escalating action and getting things under control quickly. I do see that the police lack powers to obtain information from private groups in the context of public order. I think Mrs. Chicken wants to know what we can do about those kind of holes. We see that public order intelligence is becoming increasingly important. Sometimes the police lack the authority to look into such groups. I do not have a proposal for that now. I've been calling the police these past few days and asking what's missing in practice. That's exactly this point. If a majority here were to instruct me to investigate that, I would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u321	I think we can do that with a commitment. I don't have to put that in a motion. So do that. And I would also like to add the digital contact ban, because people feel completely free on the digital highway to pop everything up and share everything. It's not easy, but I see that as a necessity. For a number of years I have been advocating that we should pick up that glove for once. So please!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u322	That's something the mayor of Utrecht set up on a case. As far as I know, there's still a lawsuit going on. I will certainly look into it and involve it in the point that I have just received from Mrs Kuik. I'll take that into account, because there's one case ahead now and it's under the judge. I will check whether there is a ruling or not, to see what Mrs Dijksma's digital ban has looked like. So that's what I'm getting into. Then I had the question of several Members, including Mr Paternotte and Mr Klaver, what are we going to do to ensure that the country is not shut down on Monday. That would indeed be terrible. When you see what the announced actions mean, this means that thousands and thousands of Dutch people, who are undoubtedly among farmers who want to express their concerns in another way, will again be severely bothered and burdened. We're in close consultation with all parties about next Monday. Two weeks ago the police set up a National Staff Large-Scale and Special Actor. From here, the operational commitment at national level is coordinated by the police. That's how we normally do things when things like this happen. And with this, of course, my ministry is in close contact. So contact mayors of municipalities where this would take place, the District Attorneys and other departments, such as IenW and LNV. The police are preparing and, where necessary, the mobile unit can also be called upon. Assistance from the Royal Marechaussee or material assistance from the armed forces is possible. Let us be very clear: we will not be intimidated. I think that is very important to repeat here. The police and other partners are doing everything they can. There is no such thing as 100% safety. There is no 100% risk exclusion. But the bottom line is we're not being intimidated. I see that everyone is ready to respond appropriately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u323	I like what the Minister says. We're not being intimidated, we're standing by, and on the escalation ladder there are more options than just the police. Do I understand from this that the stakes are really aimed at preventing the country from being wiped out by people on Monday who may be a very small, radical minority, but can cause incredibly much damage if they want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u324	Of course, it aims to keep as many people safe as possible and not to allow as many vital functions as possible to be obstructed. You can never completely rule it out. That is the reality in which we sit. At the moment when things run differently than you would have hoped or would have hoped, it will always be looked at at a local level specifically how to act best. One time that will be de-escalating, for example not to put other people further in danger, the other time it will be a firmer act. Perhaps it is also good to say the following. We all see the images and then you see only a small part of what happens around them and what happened that day. If the police are de-escalating at some point and keeping things quiet, we can see on footage that things are just left behind. However, this does not mean that people will not be tracked down, fined and arrested afterwards. That's what happens after that. I think it's good for the imaging to add that. It aims to keep it as quiet as possible and to keep as many people as possible safe. Where it gets out of hand, de-escalating, adequate action is taken and, if necessary, people are tracked down or fined afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u325	Last question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u326	The latter is important. De-escalating is important. At the same time: if that always leads to a certain time when it is better to let something go, it may also give people the feeling that this is possible and that they seem to get away with it. At the same time, you can see that some activists who occupy a building are rightly arrested. The Minister's letter states that there were ten arrests in the East Netherlands, while we know that last week there were 22 arrests in a climate action at the Tax Office alone. In other words, it is important to show with that performance that there is a limit and to prevent people from feeling that they can, because it was not addressed last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u327	Yeah, but the opposite is true. That's important. It is also important, I think, that we all promote it. At that time, de-escalating action is incredibly important, including for road users who are around it and for our own agents. But that doesn't mean you're just gonna let things go and then you're gonna go home and think, "That's it." Definitely not. I'm also referring to the statement from the D.A.'s office yesterday. The D.A. said we're studying all the footage, and we're looking you up. This shows that at that time it can be chosen to act de-escalatingly. That is also the value of our Dutch police. He's very good at making sure things don't get any more out of hand and people get hurt. But that doesn't mean you're getting away with it. And after that, we don't always see the footage. You only see the images of that moment; you don't see the images of the moment someone is lifted from his bed. So you're not gonna get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u328	I believe that we, as politicians, should ensure that we take the police into account in the way in which she acts. 'Cause you'll just stand there as a cop. And they also have to look after their own safety. So all the understanding for the choices the police have to make there. I do have a question about the instruments being deployed at any time. There's a fine on the highway. I mean, $400. As of tomorrow, enforcement will also apply to registration requirements and it will be easier to do so. So I'm gonna assume that I'd like to get a confirmation on this note that there's actually a fine on every tractor that passes by on the highway. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u329	Yeah, wherever possible. Mr Klaver is right: it is mandatory as of tomorrow. Then you also hope that everyone will stick to that. But it's not like the police are going out specifically for that. Of course, she is also controlled by the mayors on that point. They provide the framework with the D.A. on how to act on it. But there is no framework for action where it has been said: let everyone go. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u330	Mr. Clover. Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u331	That's not what I'm saying. I'm not suggesting that in any way. But there are two things that matter to me. First of all... I think there should be a fine when driving on the highway, because that simply leads to dangerous situations. Second. If it is blocked, there is not only the possibility of imposing a fine, but also the possibility of confiscating agricultural vehicles. I would like to urge the Minister to ensure that it is used and that all the necessary equipment is made available. As far as I am concerned, blocking the highway means simply confiscating these agricultural vehicles. It is unacceptable, because it creates very dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u332	I fully share that. That is what has happened over the past few years. Mr Klaver probably means to ask: has that happened often enough and can that be done in the future? Wherever possible, the police will. We just have to take into account that our policemen are working on different issues at that time. But wherever it's possible and wherever it has to be done, it's done. At least there is that option. There is also close cooperation with the armed forces to be able to use material for this purpose. So I think these sounds are just extra support to the police, the mayors and the D.A., who have to steer that. Then I'll come to my last folder. A number of questions have been asked about the NCTV, inter alia by the VVD, which asks whether I have come up against the fact that the bases for an analysis and an explanation of the NCTV are not regulated. Over the last few days I've been wondering what's going on here, not just me, but several people. It's obvious where it started, but how does it develop and how does it expand? What is there to say about the degree of radicalisation? What can be said about possible developments within the phenomenon of activism? What's going on here? These are actually all things that we should be able to fall back on the NCTV. But that's exactly what NCTV hasn't been allowed to do for a year. The NCTV shouldn't be able to indicate this. So at the moment the police are looking at what is going on, but it is actually working on the elements that we were just talking about. This isn't really the work of the AIVD either. He's working on other things again, which we're grateful she's working on. This is exactly what we really need the NCTV for. We find that the NCTV cannot consult open online sources such as Twitter for analysis and explanation. So what we can do is to look at what's going on, and it's not allowed for the NCTV. From his expertise, he could make a clear story of this and give us insight into what we should expect in the coming days. I think this is a big miss. I think I interpret this question as: getting to work hard, moving on with the legislative preparation. I intend to include in the evaluation of these days the fact that we are missing that, to show the Chamber what we have missed and what would have been better if it had been there, so that we have a concrete example of where we are unfortunately in the middle at the moment. The last question is from Mr Dassen. He's on his way for a while, but I'm gonna answer that question anyway. It was about disinformation in current policy. The current strategy against disinformation has three lines of action: prevention to prevent disinformation from having an impact and spreading, strengthening the information position, providing timely insight into and explanation of potential threats and, if necessary, a response. The Minister and State Secretary of BZK are working on a new cabinet-wide policy strategy to address disinformation and protect democracy, including online. More information on this will be available this autumn. I think it's good to get it involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u333	Thank you. I think you've answered all the questions. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u334	What is important at a time of threats by whoever and from whatever side is that the police, which we all support, can go ahead with it. Now there's a team of threatened politicians in the regional police force in The Hague. The President knows that, because she has spoken to them more often, and the Minister, of course, knows that. I've known them for years. A lot of colleagues here know them, unfortunately. Those are great people who do the work with a very limited staff. It is now growing them far above their heads what they can handle. I'd like to ask the Minister to better equip these people. I don't care if it's with extra money or extra people. They specialize in it, but everything here, in administrative and political Netherlands, the Chamber and elsewhere, ends up on their plate. I think they need twice as many people as they need right now. It is for all of us, including the rule of law, which you consider so important. I would like a commitment from you to see whether you can make extra money or people available for it. Maybe you can't do it yourself, but you can do it through the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u335	I think it's a fair question. It's five people now. You can see that, unfortunately, the demand for hard growth. More and more of us are affected by this, although 'burden' is too light a word when you look at the intimidation and aggression that some colleagues are experiencing. I would like to undertake to engage with them in the discussion on how to do their work better and examine what is needed and how it is currently working in view of rising demand, but also in view of the expectation that demand will continue to rise. I will return to Mr Wilders with that story, with an approach, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u336	Thank you for this commitment; I do not need to make a motion on this. Because what is happening now is urgent, I would like to ask the Minister to send us a letter on this matter in the not too long term. I don't know how fast it is. In a few weeks? Again, the urgency is high. They work on weekends, on holidays, they don't go on vacation, so there's a bit of a rush.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u337	Yeah, I'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u338	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest that we start immediately with the second term of office. First, I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, Party for Animals. And they're all short second installments, because the first installment was also short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u339	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister still finds it difficult to acknowledge his mistakes. I think that if there is no recognition, there can be no committee for reconciliation. I call on him to still take his responsibility. Thank you to the Minister of Justice for answering the questions. We have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas tractors cause unsafe situations in the event of demonstrations, seriously impede enforcement and are used to threaten and intimidate;]] [[noting that the police indicate that a tractor ban can help enforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and how the use of tractors in demonstrations can be prohibited nationally,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-704]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u340	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to appoint a mediator with sufficient authority to lead new consultations between farmers and the government;]] [[Prof. Dr. Louise Fresco and Dr. ir. Aalt Dijkhuizen for fulfilling this role,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to appoint a mediator with sufficient authority to lead new consultations between farmers and the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-705]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-706]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u341	I have another one, but I choose to do the following. Tonight a few peasants sat here in the stands. They have left a letter that they would like to offer to the cabinet and the MPs. It is therefore my request that this letter be presented and distributed to Members of Parliament. I would like to ask the cabinet if they would give a written reply to this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u342	Thank you. The guardian of the Chamber will copy and distribute the letter to the members and the cabinet. Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u343	Mr. Chairman. We're seeing great unrest and escalating violence. The Prime Minister has been invisible for too long. The country needs a prime minister who takes his responsibility and gets some rest. You don't do that by hiding behind mediators or commissions. You do that by directing. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the nitrogen crisis and social unrest are not resolved with mediators and committees;]] [[Whereas the cabinet should be able to keep the Netherlands safe, protect democracy and the rule of law, restore nature and offer farmers a perspective;]] [[calls on the Prime Minister himself to take responsibility for this nitrogen crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-707]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u344	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice for their answers. I just want to repeat the point I made in my first term about how horrible and terrible I found the images of the last few days, especially for the farmers who demonstrate in a peaceful and normal way, especially for the farmers who are eager to enter the conversation in a normal way. I therefore repeat my words from the first term. I hope that this objectionable behavior is behind us now and that the conversation begins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u345	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u346	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the cabinet for the fact that they want to work on the proposal by my colleagues, Mr Sneller and Mr Van der Werf, to ensure that we are not going to make the demonstration in the private environment, on the property of representatives and administrators, normal, but that we can do something about it. I hope that we will see that the actions announced by the Minister of Justice will not shut down the country on Monday, which was announced. I also hope that people who need an ambulance can get them and that people who have to go to special education, or to a family member who needs care, can just get there. I would like to make that appeal to everyone in the Netherlands. Let us give all the space to demonstrations, but let us also give all the space to each other and make the border clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u347	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u348	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is making necessary policies to reduce nitrogen emissions;]] [[whereas interests are weighed in a democracy and Parliament finally decides;]] [[whereas in a democratic rule of law, the debate is conducted with words rather than with violence and intimidation;]] [[noting that everyone has the constitutional right to demonstrate within the limits of the law;]] [[Considering that last week politicians were threatened and intimidated in an attempt to reverse the Court's decisions and that this threatened the functioning of the democratic rule of law;]] [[noting that certain mitigating circumstances are invoked for the high-rise emotions and the violence that comes from them;]] [[Notes that there are no mitigating circumstances for threats, violence and intimidation and that this should not be tolerated;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make all instruments available to the police and security authorities in order to adequately intervene and maintain public order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Kuiken, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Dassen, Mr Hermans and Mr Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-708]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u349	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Then I give...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u350	Finally, Mr President. This motion concerns what will happen on Monday. I would therefore like to vote on this motion this evening. That does not have to be a roll-call vote. Don't be alarmed, colleagues. I would like to vote on this group-by-group. I hope that is understandable. It's about Monday. It would be a little mustard after the meal if the voting didn't happen until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u351	I would like to take a look at my fellow Members as to whether there is any objection to us voting on this motion on a group basis this evening. The motion is still being circulated. I see there's no objection to that. That means that we will be voting later. I would, however, like to make a request to my fellow Members to indicate this earlier. Then we can prepare ourselves for that. I give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u352	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet, for the answers, but not for the content and certainly not for the policy. I stick with it: it's messing around in the Netherlands. When uncivilised policies are being pursued, people get angry. It's about the peasants being destroyed. It's about purchasing power that won't be restored. It is about borders and asylum policy. Mr. Chairman. Tonight, however, we are talking about nitrogen policy. I would like to conclude my second term with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the nitrogen policy of this cabinet causes great social unrest and drives many farmers in the Netherlands to total despair;]] [[calls on the cabinet to strike a line through the pointless nitrogen policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-709]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u353	No. It's a fine motion. I can totally agree with that. No, about the vote. I counted just as quickly. I believe that 13 of the 20 political groups are now present. At least one MP left because of other obligations. So I think it's kind of weird voting tonight. In fact, there are seven groups which are not present. Mr Omtzigt was unable to attend the debate because our colleague won the Thorbecke Prize this evening. That deserves congratulations. That's why he's not here. I would therefore ask you to vote on this on Tuesday. We are giving everyone the chance to vote for or against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u354	I want to support that. I didn't notice it so quickly, but I think Mrs van der Plas is right to make a point. It hasn't been announced either. It's 11:45. I do not think it is fair to vote on this now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u355	I have just asked my colleagues what they think, but we are still going to visit all our colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u356	Mr President, I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u357	Mr President, I was not aware of that either, so support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u358	It has not been announced, so I understand the reactions of my fellow Members. We're having a little discussion right now. Mr. Paternotte. Perhaps it would be a good idea to give Mr Klaver the floor first. It wasn't announced, so it's a bit of a robbery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u359	First of all, colleagues are quite right. This wasn't meant to happen either. I found out too late that this moment is on Monday. That is why I asked for this vote. Otherwise, I wouldn't. Because I'm always very strict about it myself. That's why. Let's do it like this. I'll wait for the cabinet's response. Maybe the cabinet says they're going through with this or they're taking over the motion. Then that's not the issue at all. If they do not recommend it, I insist that we vote. I hope colleagues will understand that. Again, I'm really only doing this because there's a call coming up next Monday. Otherwise, I wouldn't do this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u360	I'm just gonna take a look at the colleagues. I think they're nodding. This scenario can count on a majority. Maybe it's okay to spread the motions pretty quickly, because then everyone can take a look at the motion. I call Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u361	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are rumors that farmers are threatening to stop supplying food;]] [[Whereas this could affect the food security of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with an emergency plan to ensure the food security of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that farmers are put away as rioters and hooligans;]] [[Whereas farmers are extremely hard hit by a problem existing on paper;]] [[whereas this is at stake for farmers' right to exist in the Netherlands;]] [[speaks out that demonizing farmers must stop,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-710]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Eppink and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28684-711]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u362	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. I think it was very important for the Minister of Justice to state that the triangle is leading when it comes to enforcement. There are enforcement frameworks, but there is always room for de-escalating action and for making choices about what is in the interests of the situation. I agree with Mrs van der Plas on the matter of conciliation. Indeed, the discussion must be given sufficient scope to close the gap between The Hague and the farmers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u363	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen waives her second term. Mr Segers, too. Neither does Mr Dassen, but Mr Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u364	The chair is now very low for me, Mr President! Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their first reply and, above all, the Prime Minister for his commitment to come forward within a week with a letter on the proposal from former Minister Veerman to seek an independent chairman. The President must see how, after the escalation of last week, a dialogue can be held between the government and farmers, precisely in order to be able to talk peacefully again. I think it is a proposal which has received broad support in the Chamber. I'll wait for the letter that the cabinet comes with next week. I am really convinced that the vast majority of farmers in the Netherlands are in the same position and are also looking forward to that conversation. Not for nothing did an organization like the LTO yesterday make a very explicit call to stop violent demonsters. And I think that's what the intention is to do with this conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u365	Thank you. Mr Van Meijeren waives his term. I'll take a look at the rulers. Five minutes? I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u366	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u367	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 705 I would advise against. I don't want to anticipate names right now. The motion in part No. 706 I'd like to ask you to hold. I think the text goes rather far. "Intermediator" gives the impression that you start all over again. "Give guidance," "reconciliation." I would actually like to say that just give us a chance to write the promised letter and then put the motion to the vote. My request to Mrs van der Plas is for the motion on item No. 706 to be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u368	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u369	We'll try to send the letter within a week. Otherwise, I must dissuade her, because that text goes beyond what I think the atmosphere of the debate is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u370	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u371	We are really going to involve that motion in the letter. Maybe she'll say, "It's very close after all."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u372	No. That sounds very nice and it doesn't stand in the way of the work either, but I'm not holding up the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u373	Okay, then I'll have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. I would advise against 707, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. I would advise against 709, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. I would like to advise 710, referring to the debate. The motion in part No. I would like to discourage 711, because of course there is no question of "demonisation."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u374	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u375	Thank you. The motion in part No. 704 gets judgment Chamber and motion in part No. 708 too. I feel very supportive of taking what's in there wide-ranging. So both judge room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u376	I'm gonna take a look at the motion in part number. 708. Could it possibly be taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u377	I'd like to put her to the vote on Tuesday, because it's also a speech-out. So that is also important for the Chamber. The importance was in the second operative part. The background to that was that I understood from the police that there have been some problems in the last few days with the supply of defense equipment. If the promise is that it is not, certainly not on Monday, then I am entirely happy and I do not need to vote on that motion now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u378	Look, that's nice. Mr Klaver is right: it also says "spoken." That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-9.u379	I would like to thank the leaders in trade union K, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed the debate in a different way. I'm glad you were here. We are going to vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday. Thank you for your attention.
