ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the declaration of government. Today, the cabinet is the first to speak. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, journalists in the public gallery and viewers at home or through social media. Yesterday I agreed with Members that they have ten questions and/or comments. That's a lot. So I say to the Members: an interruption is a short question or remark, without a very long introduction. I'm gonna stick to that, too. So you'll be very happy with me again today, I think. Let us make it an interactive and pleasant debate. I wish everyone a pleasant, substantive debate. I give the floor to the Prime Minister. I see a number of people are getting up. Do you want to say something now or do you want the Prime Minister to speak first? I hear the latter is the case. Then we shall have the floor with our Prime Minister. You may begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Klaver referred yesterday to the situation at the edges of Europe. I thought I'd start saying a few things about the international situation in a moment. That was put back a little bit in the government statement yesterday. You put it either at the beginning or at the end, but further it cuts through all the themes of course. I think it's good to start today. Then economics and finance, including purchasing power. Then there are the questions about the physical habitat, so to speak. Then a separate chapter on Groningen. That seems appropriate to me, because many questions have also been asked about it. Then care. Then there are questions about the cabinet, including practical questions such as: when are the plans coming? And then there are other subjects. I will start with a few questions that have been asked about child care payments, about the resolution of that terrible affair. Then I'll answer questions about education and a few other questions. So again: The Netherlands in the world, economy, physical environment, Groningen, care, the cabinet and other topics including child care allowance and education. It is my intention to structure the treatment in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	There are already a number of people out there who don't want to interrupt. But I'm giving you the order so people don't think they can get up already. That might not be necessary. Mrs Ploumen and Mr Wilders stood up at the same time, so it's up to them who goes first. Then Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Azarkan and Mr Klaver. So that's the order. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the situation in the world, with particular reference to the situation at the margins of Europe. Before I go into that, it should be noted that developments are not only encouraging within Europe and within the European Union. I have said it many times, even here in debates on the European Union and on the European Council: the cabinet is concerned about the slowness of decision-making on a number of very large issues in Europe. This is linked, among other things, to the situation surrounding Poland and Hungary, i.e. to the discussions on rule of law. It should also be noted that, of course, there are also developments in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. A new government has been in place in Slovakia for a long time and a new government has just taken office in the Czech Republic. These offer prospects for cooperation with countries that are now referred to as the Visegrad area, as the Visegrad countries. After the fall of the wall, these four countries have united to promote rapid accession to the European Union and are, like the Benelux countries, a permanent dialogue within the European Union. It is a less homogeneous block than in the past, but there is, of course, a continuing concern about the situation in Poland and Hungary. This does not strengthen the functioning of the European Union. We saw it in the last European Council when it was about energy. Not only was there a threat of a blockade, but the whole block of conclusions on energy was actually blocked until the end of the sitting. That was for me, and I've been sitting there for a while... a "first." This happened from Poland, among other places. This was also intended to send a signal about the situation. Having said that, the situation that is now developing on the Russian-Ukrainian border is, of course, extremely worrying. In doing so, the Netherlands and Europe will choose a route that will work both on dialogue and on putting pressure on them. The German Foreign Minister is currently in the region. Wopke Hoekstra, the Dutch Foreign Minister, and I intend to travel to Ukraine soon. We are, of course, involved in these discussions within Europe in all possible ways. You have seen that the new Foreign Minister has spoken with Borrell, the High Representative. He has also spoken with his Ukrainian counterpart, with sg Stoltenberg of NATO and with his American colleague. The talks with the French and German counterparts are in the pipeline. When I was in Berlin last week, with Olaf Scholz, the new German chancellor, the conversation also went to an important extent about developments on the outskirts of Europe. Again, we must keep the dialogue going here, and at the same time it is extremely important that Europe is also able to prepare a credible package of sanctions. In this respect, we believe it is essential that these sanctions are not only applied if there is a strong Russian action towards Ukraine, but also if there is a need to take account of a less far-reaching military operation. Yeah, what's less extreme? Because any military operation is, of course, unacceptable. It is important, and I would like to give that signal to Moscow and Russia once again, that even if a possible military operation were to be less extensive, the price for Russia would be very high. It's important that they realize that. The German Chancellor and I were also in total agreement on this. Fortunately, in Europe too, you are seeing an increasing degree of convergence on this issue. There is, of course, a great deal of agreement here, both between the Eastern European part of the European Union and the Western European part, let us say the former European Union. So that's good news in itself. I am pleased that there is good coordination between NATO, the European Union and the OSCE, which also plays an important role. But again, it must be clear to Moscow, to Putin, to Russian leadership, that any action, whatever its form, will have serious political and economic consequences from Russia towards Ukraine and that the cost of aggression is therefore high. It is true, this is developing at the moment and we are indeed discussing very important issues here. But this international context cannot, of course, be overlooked. The Netherlands is therefore very closely connected to this. We are, of course, the sixth country in size within Europe, the fifth country in terms of economy of the 27 European countries. Of course, we are a lot smaller than France and Germany, but also not so much smaller than Spain. So we really have to play this role and we are also looking at the Netherlands, because we are one of the founders of the European Union, the most important country in the Benelux and, I repeat, the fifth economy and the sixth country of the European Union. Of course, the Netherlands is also expected to participate actively in this type of subject. Mr. Chairman. There are still a few questions about abroad. There are no plans for a European army, but to cooperate much more in the field of defence within Europe in the coming years, as we are already doing with Germany, with the United Kingdom and with Belgium. It is very important that we work well within NATO, within the alliance, within the European area, but also with those countries that are not members of NATO such as Sweden and Finland. Of course, the use of our armed forces will always remain a national competence, there is no discussion about that. A question was also asked about procurement policy of defence equipment. As you can see, in the coalition agreement, we have once again stressed the importance of this open strategic autonomy of European territory, including as regards international security. That is why we want to give new impetus to military cooperation, with, of course, transatlantic relations as a cornerstone. Defence applies European procurement rules and makes use of existing exceptions when requested by national security. I am looking in the direction of Mr Dassen van Volt because he asked that question. This can be done, among other things, through the European Defence Fund, but also through what has become known as PESCO projects, the projects in the framework of permanent structured defence cooperation. The existing military partnerships, such as with Belgium and Germany, also offer opportunities for joint material projects. We also always pay attention to the interests of the Dutch defence industry. Mr. Chairman. There were a few more specific questions about foreign policy, besides the general point, namely the tension at the moment on the east flank.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. I would like to look at Mrs Ploumen, Mr Wilders and Mrs Marijnissen to see whether they want to interfere with international policy. No? I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday morning we talked about double nationality and headscarfs. I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to say a few words about this because these people are watching. There has been a lot of exchange, also because the Prime Minister in the past had a view about rulers, politicians with a double passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	That was indeed a fierce part of yesterday's debate. First of all, a dual nationality certainly does not prevent her appointment in the cabinet. We also saw this in 2007 with the appointments of Aboutaleb and Albayrak, in 2010 with Mrs Van Zanten and in 2017 with Mrs Ollongren. The same goes for now. I do not ask the candidates whether they have a dual nationality; they may have a dual nationality. It doesn't stand in the way in any way and doesn't say anything about their loyalty. I think the combination of dual nationality and loyalty is a very vulnerable one. In 2007, as chairman of the political group, I made very firm statements about this. I wouldn't repeat it like that, and why not? Because I also see that the complexity of a dual nationality and the question of how you deal with it are much more complex than I realized in 2007. It also has to do with all kinds of issues that play in the country of origin, for example about inheritance law. I would certainly not repeat those statements with that certainty. It is true that the law is clear in the Netherlands: the aim is to have one nationality if I may summarize it, but in many cases it cannot be lifted for practical or even legal reasons. The cabinet wants to work on a register for an unwanted second nationality if you wanted to give it up but couldn't give it up. That's what the coalition agreement says. We are also looking at how to deal with people with Dutch nationality abroad who have to give up that nationality after so many years. But perhaps back to yesterday's debate. Having two nationalities doesn't mean anything about loyalty. Mrs Yeşilgöz fled Turkey in the 1980s as a refugee from the military dictatorship. I think that no one should doubt her commitment to this country and to this society. I'm incredibly proud that she's a member of this team.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Beautiful words when the Prime Minister says "I wouldn't repeat a few things." He's consistent, all right. It was never about loyalty, it was about rights and obligations. There's one more statement I'd like to remind him of. In 2010 a problem was created with the appointment of Ms Veldhuijzen-Hyllner, who had a Swedish passport. Then this Prime Minister said: "I would find it a problem if this govern ment had not had a Swedish but a Turkish nationality. I would have found that a problem." Does the Prime Minister now say that this is no longer the case in retrospect? How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	That was a political statement and not a legal one. I just said my thinking didn't stop there. I realize what complexity comes with when there is a second nationality. But I did have those debates from the opposition banks in 2007. I was called opposition leader at the time, but unfortunately I was not. That was Mrs Kant of the SP at that time, the VVD was the second party in the opposition. But at least I have drawn attention from the opposition to this. But again, it's a lot more complex and a lot more nuanced. The law in the Netherlands does say that the starting point is one nationality. However, very many in the Netherlands cannot give up that nationality. There are often practical reasons not to do that, and in any case it doesn't say anything about people's loyalty. That's what I said back then. And about headscarfs: that's allowed in the Netherlands. There are places where expressing a religious background is not desirable, as stated in civil law, but wearing a headscarf is just allowed in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	Of course, it would be very good if we banned that Islamic headscarf, especially in our own parliament. This sign of Islamic fascism does not belong in free society. But I have a question about dual nationality. The Prime Minister just said, apart from his words in 2007, that people often can't get rid of it. Now people from Turkey can get rid of it. That was your objection to Mrs Albayrak, a woman who would join the cabinet under the last Balkenende cabinet as Secretary of State. She also had Turkish nationality, and your objection was that she had not surrendered that nationality which she could turn in. You didn't just say what, it wasn't a slip of the tongue that you're now saying you wouldn't do that anymore, you even said, "I'm asking the government to come up with concrete legislation to prevent double nationalities, otherwise my group will come up with initiative proposals." That was not just a mix, you announced legislation!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	You want a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yes, but, Mr. Chairman, I can make my point, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm really trying to keep the interruptions short today. I just did that to Mr Azarkan, so I want to do the same to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr President, I have just replied to Mr Azarkan. My answer to Mr Azarkan was not about a person of Moroccan nationality, who cannot turn him in. It was precisely this issue, namely someone of Turkish nationality. May I add one thing to this subject? Mr Wilders has the nerve to stand here. I didn't think he'd do that. Mr. Chairman. I know Mr Wilders as someone who is debating hurricane power. But in personal relations, I have to say, he's always trying to maintain normal standards of decency. What he has done is to say to the Minister: because of her dual nationality, she will find my security less important. "She's also from a party that wants me under the green feet," he said. Those two statements have touched me deeply and deeply. I find them unacceptable and throw them far from me. And to not have the sense of style, to have the courtesy, to record when someone calls you, I find something of that. I had Mrs Yeşilgöz on the phone that weekend. Then she said, "I'm gonna call Geert Wilders." I said, "Well, why do you even do that? It's all so crazy what he's calling out." "Yeah, I'm gonna call him. I just want to stay in dialogue with this man." To not answer the phone, and to come up with the incredibly cocky excuse, "Yes, she was then Secretary of State for Climate, so why would the Secretary of State for Climate pick up the phone?': I've never heard such a weak story. Mr. Wilders, you've really fallen through a line for me. I didn't expect that from you. Once again, debating positions with hurricane force, we often disagree. I think you are debating in a way where you sometimes throw away entire population groups. I'll always distance myself from that. But in personal relations, I have always known you as someone who upholds the basic standards of decency. You didn't do that here. It's part of your style to say, "I never apologize for anything. Even if I make the biggest mistake, I'll just stick with it." Because that's part of the "fire or politician" you want to be. Here it would be so strong to say once: I should have answered that phone, to say to Dilan "Oh, that was just not so neat of me."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Well, I had an appointment with her tomorrow, and she canceled it, so maybe you could call me about that. But I want to say something else. Do you know when you crossed the border? And do you know when it would adorn you, and I expected you to apologize to me? That's what you'd say: I have an advisor, Soumaya Sahla. She's an advisor, and you're party leader. She's the advisor to your party, the VVD. Soumaya Sahla is a convicted terrorist, someone who spent three years in prison, because she was a member of the Hofstad group, who killed Theo van Gogh and tried to kill me. She was also arrested with a machine gun or gun in her possession. She now advises the VVD. I expected you, Mr. Rutte, because that's how I know you, the debate would start by apologizing to me, and would say, "Dear Geert, whatever politics I think of you, I'm sorry. We should never have hired a terrorist as a VVD party on our party committee. 'Cause of course I can't, that as a VVDer, I'm fighting terror, and I'm hiring an advisor who wanted to kill you." 'Cause that's what you did. It would be a pleasure for you not to take me on a phone call, but to apologize to a terrorist as a VVD party. Shame on you not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you. I would ask Mr Rutte and Mr Wilders to speak through the President. It's a sensitive subject. I am giving our Prime Minister the opportunity to respond and then to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Wilders has claimed that a future minister would not be interested in his security because of dual nationality, and that the party from which she comes wants him under the green pants. He didn't even start saying sorry. If only he had done that once, I would have appreciated that in the personal relations incredibly. Then he comes up with another point. Parliamentary questions have been answered. This is about a person who cannot defend himself here in this House of Representatives. Those parliamentary questions have been answered. I refer to the answers to these questions in the Chamber. In all the questions that Mr Wilders is asking about security, he knows that the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security is doing everything possible to ensure that we can all work safely here and constantly make the security assessments. If there were things, he'd report them, too. I can only talk about that in a general sense. It is impossible for me, and Mr Wilders knows it. It would even harm the security system if we were to talk here about individuals and individual situations. That simply cannot be done. He knows that. He's coming with it now, and why? Because he's trying to avoid the other point. But he won't. The whole of the Netherlands sees this. Here is someone who has a strong debate, who I respect as the person he is; not because of his views. But at this point he has fallen through the lower limit of sense of style and civilization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	Where does the Prime Minister get the guts to call me about a phone call while he and his party employ a terrorist who wanted to get me under the bushes? She was arrested with a machine gun in her car, along with Nouredine el Fahtni, another terrorist. They were looking for Ayaan Hirsi Ali and Geert Wilders to kill them. That terrorist, sentenced by the Supreme Court to three years for membership of the Hofstadgroup, who cut Theo van Gogh's throat, is now in your employ. She is now national security advisor to the VVD, and thus also national security advisor to the Prime Minister. You should be ashamed of yourself for doing that. Talking to me about a phone call while one of your party wanted me under the green pants and wanted to shoot with a machine gun? You should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	The group chairman of the VVD said yesterday: she is not employed by the VVD, she does not work for the VVD and she does not have a VVD card. Parliamentary questions have also been answered. I can be here in a public debate... that's out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	No, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Wilders, I thought I was talking right now. Now, you listen to me and I'll talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	Prime Minister, before you go any further, I really don't want us to talk about this kind of qualifications. You'll get a chance to respond to this, but I just don't want to hear that kind of words. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, the chairman of the VVD group was quite clear about this yesterday. I cannot and will not speak here about an individual who cannot defend himself here. Mr Wilders knows that Parliamentary questions have been answered, precisely within all the rules that apply to them. He also knows that when it comes to his and all of us safety, and the safety of all the politicians involved, the NCTV constantly makes security assessments. That is always a general answer. I can never give you a specific answer. That is not possible because the public debate never lends itself to that. If he is concerned about this, they should be discussed in the places where they should be discussed, but not here in a public debate. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	I am giving Mr Wilders a chance to respond to that. Then I really want to close this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	Of course I'm responding in public. On vvd.nl, the website of the VVD party, is the terrorist Soumaya Sahla, with a photo. Underneath it is "National Security Advisor." The millions of people at home watching now can see that. She is an advisor to the party VVD and to the Prime Minister as party leader. She was arrested for being a member of the Hofstad group and for trying to kill Ayaan Hirsi Ali and Geert Wilders. She's been convicted of joining a terrorist organization and carrying a machine gun. She wanted me under the carpet. She wanted me dead. You have someone in your party, as a national security advisor, who wanted to kill the opposition leader of the Netherlands. Then you're asking me to apologize for a phone call? You're insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	Finally, the Prime Minister. Then we really stick to the order of this debate. Then I'd like to close this subject. Maybe you can talk about this at another time, but I think it is important that we really stick to the order of the debate, so that we talk about the declaration of government. I'll allow the Prime Minister to respond to that, and then we'll stop this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	It is simply impossible to talk about individual security measures and safety situations in public. That simply cannot be done. Mr Wilders knows that, too. He uses this to cast a smokescreen for his comments yesterday and on Twitter...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Wilders, I don't want things to be said outside the microphone. That goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	I think I've given that answer now. Mr Wilders knows that. I hope he thinks about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	I really don't want to talk about this issue anymore. I also appeal to Mrs Hermans to leave it at that. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to get other people to respond to that. I call Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	Let me make a point of order. It was just about whether or not to call back and that would have been a sign of decency. There was another reproach, namely that Mrs Yeşilgöz, excuse, the Minister of Justice and Security, cancelled tomorrow's appointment. I just want to make that clear. That's true. She was asked by the Chamber for a debate. That's why she'll be here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	Then I'll come to Mrs Ploumen. Maybe somebody's got a pen for me. I brought it with me, but it was lost. I'm getting one here. Great. Great. He's still doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	I think we can work that out. Mrs Ploumen on the subject of international? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	No, not on the subject of internationalism, but on the issues to which the Prime Minister now belongs. The Prime Minister is responding today to the questions and considerations that were made yesterday in the House of Representatives. But of course he himself spoke yesterday when he read the government statement. He said, not for the first time, that there is an outstretched hand to the opposition and that this agreement was not cast into concrete. I would like to ask him the following at the start of this debate. We have heard this from him before, in 2010, 2012 and 2017. Then we ended up in a very predictable, clichéd conversation. The Prime Minister didn't change anything, and the opposition said, "You see?" From both sides, the intention is to do things differently now, on the side of the government and on the side of the opposition, at least with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	So I'd like to know what's going on with the Prime Minister. Yesterday, a number of fundamental adjustments were suggested, which are important for the people of the country. My question to the Prime Minister is: is he prepared to make adjustments today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	I'm gonna give you a very precise answer. You may not like that, but that fits with the outstretched hand. I have to be very precise about that, because it is an understandable and very correct question from Mrs Ploumen, who will also live with others. This cabinet has not written a government agreement in which everything has been worked out in detail. We have made a coalition agreement that is indeed thicker than we really wanted, but at least thinner than was feared. That thing needs to be worked out. Mrs Hermans asked: when do we get planning? He'll be here in three weeks, I can say. I will come back to that in a moment. So the relevant ministers, who really have to work things out, will let you know how they do it within three weeks. Yesterday in the debate there were some very big issues. One of them was the AOW. The link is maintained in any case, but it would be set out in our plans to increase the minimum wage and cuts in youth care. But there were other subjects as well. I listened very carefully to that; the cabinet listened very carefully to it. I had that discussion with the Deputy Prime Minister yesterday. I'll be very precise. We are not going to promise today that this link will come back. If that's the check if there's an outstretched hand, I'm gonna disappoint you. I shall now go into the AOW in detail, so I would ask you not to interrupt on this now, but to give me the opportunity to talk about it a little longer. However, since Mrs Ploumen now, at least in my opinion, highlights the two subjects of youth care and AOW, I would like to answer them in a general sense. What I am going to mention in a moment is that the cabinet is going to look very closely at how we can ensure that we can return to the objectives of the agreement, where purchasing power is now wrong on a broad front. We have listened very carefully to what the Chamber says, including the position of the elderly. Or that brings back the instrument of the clutch? If that is to be the commitment today, then I am not going to make that commitment today. However, I am going to make a commitment that we will do everything we can to ensure that the purchasing power picture is restored within reasonable limits. We also need the Central Economic Plan of the CPB for this. It'll be in March. Then we also have the actual estimate of inflation figures. The same applies to youth care. Maarten van Ooijen, the Secretary of State, is now working with the municipalities, of course together with Hanke Bruins Slot. They are looking at how we can ensure, with the pressure from all the vacancies, that youth care is there for those who really need it and that waiting lists there reduce, in combination with, one way or another, the sustainability, even in the longer term, of public finances. Yesterday, I heard very well the concern of the Chamber. This also obliges the cabinet to address these concerns in the elaboration of the plans on youth care, not only out of courtesy and because of the outstretched hand, but also from the political rationality, otherwise these plans will not come through the First Chamber. So even if you didn't trust me, I think it's important that there's a broad consensus, because otherwise those plans won't come through the Upper House. If Mrs Ploumen were to say that she wants to see this cut off today as proof of that outstretched hand, I am not going to deliver it today. If she wants to know that the cabinet is talking to the municipalities, et cetera, and if I have heard very well the great concerns that exist in the Chamber about youth care, then the answer is yes. We must come back in a way that is in line with the reactions from the Chamber and which, once again, is also in line with the character of this document, which is not a coalition agreement, but a coalition agreement. Let's get this straight. I shall, of course, come back to the subject of child care. Perhaps we can now avoid all the interruptions, my suggestion would be, because I have not had a chance to say anything more about that. But this is due to Mrs Ploumen's challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	The Prime Minister not only disappoints me, but also the people in the country. Not just by saying: I'm going to define for myself what that outstretched hand looks like and not yours when that was the purpose of the debate. But also by not making firm commitments about the removal of this decoupling of the AOW, the removal of the cuts in youth care, the removal of the cuts in nursing care and the removal of the cuts in tenants. It's not that complicated. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister again. This is the day on which this must happen, and this is the day on which we, not only the opposition but also the cabinet, must show that it is really going to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	That's what I want. In the end, Mrs Ploumen can come to the longest conclusion here, because apart from the fact that I and the cabinet consider it important that there is broad support, there is the political rationality of the Senate, where this cabinet has by no means a majority. In the end, we will have to come up with plans that will receive support from far more parties than just the coalition parties. That is one side: the outstretched hand, because we think it is desirable from the political culture, but also from the rational of majorities in the First and Second Chambers. At the same time, I do not want to talk with wool in my mouth. If the evidence is to be given today that the temporary, one-off, decoupling of the increase in the minimum wage, which will then be fully restored, will be withdrawn, then I say: no, I am not going to promise that today. At instrument level, I do not make that commitment. I do, however, make a commitment that we want to ensure that this is restored in terms of purchasing power. Of course, we're looking at the decoupling. We look at the suggestions made by other parties about the IO-AOW, increasing the AOW and increasing the elderly discount. The variants that are on the table, we're all going to look at. But I can't promise anything right now. I agree, but you cannot agree, that this fits in with the character of the piece that lies there, which is a piece that needs to be further worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	Finally. Watch, watch, slide through and "we're gonna look at it again": that's not what I asked for. I asked to be clear. The wishes are widely shared in the opposition. They're shared because it's important to the people in the country. I would say: take this opportunity and don't leave it! You will now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	I'll take a look at Mrs. Marijnissen. Do you think it's okay if Mr. Wilders goes first? I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen and then to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	I think this is too easy. A few weeks ago, of course, we were here. At that time, we also made a big point of cutting back on care. The coalition got very angry about that back then. I am pleased that the Prime Minister himself has now acknowledged that cuts are being made, for example in the area of youth care and nursing care. But even now, he says, "We're not gonna get together today." A few weeks ago he also said: we are not going to agree on this today, there will be another debate. Now there is a new debate and he says again: we are not going to agree on it now, there will be another debate. We can still stand here with each other many times, but it is much more interesting to see what can really change. For the moment, that is nothing at all, if I listen to the Prime Minister's words properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	My specific question is about purchasing power, as the chairman of the VVD, Mr Rutte's party colleague, said something about it yesterday. She said to the elderly who are looking at home and who have sent her an e-mail: in this coalition agreement we agreed to present to everyone a plus, a positive and balanced purchasing power picture. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he can confirm that and, therefore, whether he can guarantee that people will get it. Because that is really different from what I heard him say a few sentences ago, namely: within the real limits we are going to see what can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	The coalition agreement talks about a balanced and average positive purchasing power picture. That's what we want to work towards. This is also true of the spring decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	So here we go again: that is the starting point for the spring decision-making process. That doesn't help people at home, does it? There are so many people who can't pay all their bills right now: of the rent not, of the care costs not or at the cash register not. What good is "the starting point is..."? It seems that this is going to be Rutte's umpteenth broken promise, because we also know this from the other Cabinets. At the same time, it was said that everyone is getting better, that is really our starting point. It's not a starting point, Prime Minister Rutte. Your partymate from the VVD said yesterday, "We're gonna take care of that." So my question is again: can you give that guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	I believe that the chairman of the VVD group said that she is sticking to the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement is clear. That says: there must be a balanced and positive purchasing power picture. Of course, that's always average, because you can't guarantee for every individual that it's positive. You can never give that guarantee, because you know on an individual level, when people lose their jobs or when there are other unique individual situations, not what happens to purchasing power. You can never guarantee that, but on average you can. At the same time, I would add the following if Mrs Marijnissen would like to have a firm guarantee from me even on that point. I'm going to be very precise today, very precise: I'm not going to give a firm guarantee. We are going to do our utmost to achieve that. Why don't I give you a firm guarantee? Because we also need to look at the Central Economic Plan to see what the trend of inflation is at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	This can't be happening, can it? This can't be happening, can it? The Prime Minister says, "I'm not gonna give you a firm guarantee." His fellow party member of the VVD said literally yesterday: "We made the agreement that everyone will be presented with a plus, a positive and balanced purchasing power picture." I think that's very clear. If I then ask whether the Prime Minister can give that guarantee, then there will be another vague story about principles within real limits. That's no good to people! If I listen to it that way, this will be yet another broken promise. We have already seen this in the other Cabinets. At that time, we also saw that every time it was promised that everyone would make progress. That was very often not realised. Now it's much worse. Since yesterday, there have been payments, with everyone in the Netherlands, except the super rich, declining. That's much worse! That's the starting point. Prime Minister Rutte says: well, we're going to see what might be possible within the real limits, and we're going to talk about that again in another debate. I fear that the whole of the Netherlands will know where this is going to end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	Once again, I am standing here today to see how we can come to an agreement together. I also believe that this is in line with the way in which we are discussing each other. If we can't do all that now, we can do it in the next few months. This will also be necessary because of the political constellation in which we find ourselves together and because of the desirability of broad support. The coalition agreement is clear. That says: there must be a balanced and positive purchasing power picture. This means that all groups should eventually be in the plus. That is what the cabinet wants to achieve. You can never guarantee on an individual level that everyone is in the plus. At the same time, we must also look at the Central Economic Plan to see how inflation is developing. That too is decent driving. The Nibud figures are, of course, dramatic. Everyone's going down in there. For those with a lower income, the effect of the €200 compensation from the energy bill for those groups is not yet included in the figures. That's what the Nibud says. That could fix something else. I don't think that's gonna matter very much, but it's not in yet. Having said that, that image is bad. I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen. It is also our expensive duty to correct this and to go back to the principles of the coalition agreement. We're gonna work really hard on that. That target is there. I am going to try to convince Mrs Marijnissen of this by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	First Mr Wilders, then Mr Klaver, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Wilders, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	I do not understand at all what this Prime Minister is doing, even on this point. This is the Rutte IV cabinet, but this is actually the Kaag I cabinet. Because what you are doing is implementing Mrs Kaag's agenda or Mr Klaver's agenda. You are running an extreme-left calendar. I am not going to list it all, Mr President-in-Office, on the 60 billion by climate and nitrogen, more development aid, more money for culture and open borders. Do you know what the Netherlands is longing for, what a lot of people who are watching television are longing for? They're looking for an affordable shopping bag, for a lower energy bill, for decent care, for a higher AOW, for 10,000 cops so they can walk safely across the street and for less immigration. These are also points your party used to stand for. I wonder: why, Mr Rutte, are you running the agenda of D66 and of GroenLinks, with climate and other madness? Why don't you just do what you should be doing, namely for the basic principles of government? That's security and decent care, and making sure people get enough money in their pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	I think driving always means driving and-and-and-driving. Yes, the points raised by Mr Wilders are extremely relevant. This means that the support for the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands is preserved by getting people who have no business here to leave. This means ensuring that there are decent income relationships in this country and that we have a health care that is loving and close to where that can be done, with hands on the bed and a warm heart, providing people with the best possible support. He's all right about that. Those points are all very relevant. I think you also see investments on all these fronts in the coalition agreement. Think of relief and safety. Perhaps Mr Wilders has no political interest in emphasising it now. It is also investment to ensure that health care is given the right emphasis and that staff shortages are reduced as far as possible. But that does not relieve us of the obligation to address a number of issues that are more structural in nature. I refer, for example, to nitrogen, so that roads cannot be built, housing projects are blocked and nature is damaged. I mention the climate issue that needs to be addressed in a way that reduces CO emissions, so that the planet becomes cleaner or at least the Netherlands becomes cleaner. We have to be able to see it all, too. Luckily, we have that financial space. It also needs to be done in a way that leads to a lot of jobs, because that will have to be done. Where Mr Wilders emphasizes certain aspects of the coalition agreement, I find that balanced, including between the four coalition parties that are here. I am defending that compromise. I find it balanced, and yesterday I heard criticism from other quarters of the Chamber about other aspects. That's the way it's supposed to be. I think it's real to establish that if you're controlling, you can't just choose one perspective. You also have to solve the long-term problems and you will also have to ensure that there is support in the Netherlands for the major issues that need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	I think that a lot of people in the Netherlands agree with me that this Prime Minister is not even able to spell the word 'decent'! You can't even spell the word "decent." Your cabinet made sure that people were standing in line in Groningen, humiliated for a grant of €10,000 to strengthen their home. Humiliated. Not "decent"; humiliated. In the plans, your cabinet has made it possible for you to make structural savings of 400 million on the nursing homes. As a result, you are cutting back another 6,000 people, while there is already a huge shortage to give proper care to those old people in the nursing homes, to have them showered once or twice a week with two nurses or nurses. That's not neat, that's indecent. It is indecent that since 1980 you have released the link between the minimum wage and the AOW of so many people in the Netherlands who have worked hard. My mailbox is full of messages from people who say: I have a woman who doesn't have a pension, I only have a pension, I can barely make it and then Rutte has been releasing the link with the minimum wage since 1980. That's indecent! You have to have a proper policy, but you can't even spell the word! So here's what I'm asking you. One. Make sure people no longer have to queue up in Groningen and solve that problem. Two. Remove the €400 million cut from the nursing homes. Get that away from me! Deal decently with our elders. Please do that. And three. Please admit that you may not like me, but do it for those old people who are going to make sure that the AOW benefit increases by 7.5% just like the minimum wage. That costs you 2.4 billion euros. You must be able to pay it if you give 60 billion in nitrogen and climate at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	With regard to Groningen, Mr Wilders is, of course, quite right. That was a mistake. That face of those rows in Groningen was horrible. I am extremely pleased that Hans Vijlbrief immediately succeeded in supplementing that pot in his first week. But he should never have, he is absolutely right. With regard to care for the elderly, we are facing a very difficult problem that I have just mentioned: double ageing. So on the one hand, more and more people are using it, and on the other hand, there is also a huge shortage of staff. We are going to talk about this today, I think, when I come to questions about it. We are going to talk about this, but we do have that problem to face. That's not so one-two-three soluble. That'll take more time. With regard to the AOW, I very much agree with him that it is important that the elderly in the Netherlands also see a decent purchasing power picture. There is, of course, still the problem of supplementary pensions and indexation. We cannot solve that, but if you look at the cabinet plans, you can see that the elderly are improving by 0.3% because of the cabinet plans. On average, the Netherlands is improving by 0.4% in government policy. But again, because of the high inflation, you see that all groups are currently sinking to levels that you do not want and which are also far away from the objectives of the cabinet agreement, in the coalition agreement. That is precisely why, as I have just said on other questions, we are going to do everything we can to get back to the principles of the coalition agreement in March and beyond, when we have the figures of the Central Economic Plan of the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	At the risk of almost no more interruptions at 11 o'clock, one more. You can't be serious! You cannot say: we have a problem in the care of the elderly, and we will solve that by cutting back another 400 million. Everyone at home understands that, of course, that's a huge crazy thing. If you have a problem, you invest more instead of less. You can't say: we have a problem in the care of the elderly, so I'm going to cut another 6,000 people and cut 400 million. That's not a solution, is it? What's your message to the elderly in the nursing homes? And then the pensions: for the first time since 1980 you are immediately coming up with a bill to cut that link for the elderly, so that the elderly, AOW'ers, miss €1,000 a year. Then you should not say: I am going to look at that again in March. I ask you to promise me that you will not table this bill and that you now undertake not to cut that link for the elderly, who simply deserve it. That's just decency; those people built our country, worked hard in their lives, now have a more expensive shopping bag and a higher energy bill and don't even get some money for the AOW. Otherwise, I would ask the Chamber, in a motion, to do so; perhaps there is a majority in the Chamber for that. If you do, we don't have to. Be decent, and I'll compliment you on that, too. Tell him you're maintaining that clutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u57	To be precise, starting with care for the elderly: expenditure on care for the elderly in the Wlz, the Long-Term Care Act, will increase from 15.9 billion to 17.3 billion in this cabinet period. So that's an increase. We are trying to put a brake on this increase in the coming years, but it is not the case that we are cutting back on care. That's one. This also applies to youth care; I would also like to take away the idea that we are going to cut back on youth care. There is a structural increase of 300 million for youth care. If you reject what the Committee of Wise Men has said about this, it is obviously less than what it suggested, but there is no reduction in youth care. I'd like to have said those two things. Then we can still disagree: are those total amounts sufficient and do you have to divide it differently? I respect that, but there is no question of cutting back on child care and care for the elderly. As far as the coupling is concerned, it is fully maintained. What we are not doing in our plans alone is also linking the increase in the minimum wage to the AOW, partly because of the fact that the AOW is already above the social minimum and also above the social minimum. At the same time, you see that there is a problem with purchasing power. We have, of course, made a very substantial correction in purchasing power by significantly increasing the elderly discount. We know that this old age discount does not reach everyone: the people with a pension, but often not the people without a supplementary pension or a substantial supplementary pension. That is why we will look again at the various suggestions that have been made in the coming period: increase in the AOW, increase in the IO-AOW, further increase in the elderly discount, the link.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr Klaver, Mr GroenLinks, then Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Eerdmans and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u59	Everything has to change so everything stays the same. The words are really warmer than ever, but I really don't see the difference with the previous cabinet in the way the cabinet wants to work with the Chamber. The Prime Minister is right when he says that you cannot demand that the intention on the AOW link should be removed and that this really should be done today. I cannot demand that you now deliver in the first term on the issue of cuts in youth care and say that otherwise we have a problem. Prime Minister, it's the other way around. You will begin this debate at 11:00 a.m. We started at 10:15 p.m. with: we are not going to do two big questions from the Chamber; we are not going to do that; we are going to end the discussion. New politics means that we are looking at these substantive arguments together and in the second term, somewhere tonight: perhaps the Prime Minister is right and we should wait for the purchasing power repair and perhaps he is right about the issue of youth care. But he starts today with the conclusion: we're not gonna move on that. Then what does this debate need?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u60	At least that's not how I live it. I said that the link, raising the IO-AOW, raising the AOW or raising the old discount are all tools we're looking at in the future. Only if the commitment is called for today and now, in a coalition agreement, which is not a coalition agreement and has not yet been worked out on all the details, to say that we are going to use a particular instrument to achieve the goal that I believe we all feel here together, I cannot make that commitment. I am clear about that, because it is too early for that. I listen very carefully to everything that is being discussed here, as I hope Mr Klaver also listens to what others say and what the cabinet says; that is how I know him. Then we'll take a look at that in the next few weeks. Then we will also look at the estimates that the Central Planning Bureau will come up with at the beginning of March when the CEP comes out. Then we'll talk about that more closely. My point was not: this instrument is also totally non-negotiable. No, my point is that we don't want to talk about instruments right now. We want to talk about the goal of repairing that purchasing power as best we can. Give us a chance to work out those plans. This was also in line with the new political culture that we wanted, with the support of many in the Chamber: not a detailed coalition agreement, but a coalition agreement that needs further elaboration. That's where we're gonna get that involved. So the question is not whether we agree or not. The question is whether this is the time for the cabinet to put the pin on the nose at that point. Of that I say: I would not find that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u61	No, the question is whether we have a substantive debate here, whether we consider the arguments and whether there is a possibility that something will change at the end of the debate. As I cannot demand that it have changed at the end of the debate, the Prime Minister cannot now say that we are not going to do anything about it at the end of the debate and that this should be evident in the coming months. That could be an outcome. Maybe it's a fair outcome. But if this is started at 11 a.m., I think we can hold this debate very briefly. That's a really missed opportunity. This is not meant by conducting a substantive debate in the Lower House. Then I have a more specific question about purchasing power. The Prime Minister is talking about the purchasing power of 2023. That's why he wants to wait for the Central Economic Plan. That is why the decision-making process must take place in the spring. But there's already a problem in 2022. We're gonna have to make choices about that today anyway. What proposals does he put forward for this? What space does he see there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u62	I am not prepared to do so now, because no question has been asked about it, but I will be briefed on it. So I'll come back to that. Perhaps I can say one more thing, Mr President, when Mr Klaver refers to that beautiful book by Tomasi di Lampedusa, The Tiger Cat. I'm enjoying it, too. I actually came to a different interpretation. By the way, it's not very pleasant that he compared me to Tancredi, so I leave that entirely to him. But I see a whole different story in it. It's breathing melancholy. It breathes melancholy to a world that has just disappeared. It is a look back at the world of the noble environment of this writer, of his youth in Sicily. The real hero of the book is, of course, Don Fabrizio, who eventually goes down with his whole class in that new Italy. So I think it is an example of how nothing remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u63	There is a reason why I choose this book: because the conclusion turns out to be quite positive. But we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u64	From the left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u65	Sure. But it's still early in the debate. Quite precisely on this point, I have indicated what I really think is important for this debate, namely that it is a substantive debate. So I really want the Prime Minister's promise in a moment that the conclusion is not already that nothing will change there. That may be the conclusion in the second term. That no questions have been asked about 2022 is not true. We really didn't just talk about next year's purchasing power. There are very big problems now. We could fix that. I talked about the rent freeze in my contribution yesterday. We could do that in July of this year. We could raise the minimum wage sooner. I would like him to take this up in this block, because I want to be able to have a substantive debate. I want to be able to weigh it. I want to know what follow-up I will have to give in the second term. I'd like him to take that up anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u66	Yeah, I'll go into that. I just thought he meant a complete plan for further purchasing power recovery in 2022, but I come back to the points he mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr. Klaver for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u68	"I'll come back to that." I would point out that the Prime Minister is constantly talking about 2023. I ask him: what is this cabinet going to do to restore purchasing power by 2022?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u69	On that point, I say that I did not prepare it, because I did not hear it yesterday in the Chamber's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u70	The Prime Minister may come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yeah, maybe even in the first term. The civil servants work so hard. I will certainly get suggestions for an answer in this period, which I will of course consider and not just pass on to the Chamber, but which I will also look at politically. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u72	Give the Prime Minister a chance to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u73	But Klaver also said that he asked specific questions about rentals and other things. They're just in my answer today. I'll get back to you on that. I was expecting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u74	Fine. Mr President, I would like to say to you that this is a very important subject. I would like it not to be muffled somewhere at the end of the second term or to come back in the first term, but to come back to this block, where it is about purchasing power, even if it requires a moment's suspension. To be quite honest, I really cannot imagine that the purchasing power picture for 2022 has not been prepared. If that's the case, it's a real disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u75	Of course everything is being prepared permanently, but I have now prepared myself for the questions. Mr Klaver rightly says: questions have been asked about a number of instruments. I'll get back to you on that. He is now asking for the broader purchasing power picture of 2022. That question has not been asked in my opinion. I'm not gonna improvise on that right now. That would be crazy. Here's what I'm gonna promise him. I think I am going to give Mr Klaver an answer that he likes. It is not possible in this block, but well before the end of the first period I will try to come up with an answer to that point. That'll probably be after lunch. Then I will be through this block, but then I will start with Mr Klaver's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yes, with Mr Klaver's point. Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr President, on a point of order. The Prime Minister cut this up in cubes. I believe that we are all dealing with this in conjunction with each other and that it will not come back for a while if we are somewhere in the middle of Groningen. Now, go on. I would like it to be dealt with in this block, about purchasing power. If it is then necessary to suspend, I would like to do so, because I would like to be able to discuss this in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u78	Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. Is that gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u79	Of course, I want to deal with the Chamber. Let me then deal with a few other issues first. Then I will return to the subject of economics and finance at all after the break. I could do that. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u80	Then it gets the proper attention that Mr Klaver wants. I understand it's gonna have to be sorted out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr President, I had a point of order. It's not interrupting. I am not addressing the Prime Minister; I am addressing you. The Prime Minister is not about the order of this debate. I ask you to ensure that this is answered in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u82	That's right. Let me take a look at the Prime Minister: Is that gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u83	No. Then I'm gonna do another block first. That's fine, isn't it? Then I'll come back after the break with the block of economics and finance. That's how I understand Mr. Klaver. That's possible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u84	Then I suggest to the Chamber that we park this subject, this block, so that the Prime Minister can deal with Mr Klaver's question later. I suggest we move on to another block now. I think that's the logical thing to do. Well, that's how we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u85	Fine. Mr. Chairman. Then let me begin with the subject "the physical...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'll ask the members as well. There were also a number of other questions. If we end this block now and come back to it later, I would ask the Members of Parliament to keep the questions relating to that. Otherwise Mr Klaver will be in trouble with his question. So I ask you to understand. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u87	The Prime Minister started the foreign block and there were interruptions. I had a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u88	All right. We can do that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u89	Yes. The Prime Minister said something about Russia and Ukraine in the beginning for a few minutes. I think that the military threat by Russia, the fact that there are troops in Belarus, is really a shadow over this debate too. In the last ten years, of course, there have been two annexations/invasions in a neighbouring country of the European Union. Now they're talking about spheres of influence again, Yalta 2.0. At the Yalta Conference, Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin divided Europe into two blocs of power without Europe being at the table. And now you actually see that Europe does not have a strong position at the table either. This really must be the year of a European defence policy, of a European foreign policy, so that we can ensure that Europe can go beyond its own security and help protect its own borders. My question is: what will the Netherlands do to make that possible, to ensure that we can make that contribution? Now on the Ukrainian border, among other things, British and American surveillance aircraft are under surveillance. Europe itself must be able to make a contribution in its own backyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr Paternotte raised an extremely sensitive subject. At the core, the longer term is the question of how to prevent Europe from being a playing field and not a player and for the shorter term how to ensure that we, where it is still too much of a playing field and not a player, can take that role in this current conflict. I welcome the fact that the Presidency of the Council is currently in the hands of France, which is trying to shape ambitious policies in this area and has a very articulate vision of this conflict. That helps. Last week I also told Olaf Scholz, the German Chancellor, that it really wants to work, that it starts with Germany and France and how they deal with their sovereignty in foreign policy. This has, of course, always been the major problem so far: France and Germany, in addition to very warm words about European cooperation, have strongly emphasised their own sovereignty in the field of foreign policy and have continued to pursue their own bilateral foreign policy. If they are not prepared to shape foreign policy more jointly, I believe that it will be very difficult for Europe to gain sufficient strength in it. So my approach here is that we try to close the door to foreign contacts in France even before the presidential elections are held in March; then the French President should no longer be visible on the international stage and that sort of thing; I do not know exactly how that works legally, but there will be such a moment when this reduces the possibility of holding a joint ministerial council with the French. That's what the French want very much. We're trying to find such a date. These contacts with the Germans are of course also very intensive. They are mainly aimed at achieving a common approach. Borrell, the High Representative, can't do that on his own. This can only be done if countries like the Netherlands play a role in this, and we can play a major role in this. Hoekstra did that in his contacts last week, and I'm trying to do that on my part. Well, that's the essence of how you do that. And for the longer term, of course, we are trying to get rid of unanimity, for example, on sanctions and so on, but that is not going to help us now. Because this unanimity on sanctions and so on will continue in the coming months, so it is still important that we come out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u91	That's right. And the fact that this European emergency summit is in France in March does mean that it is incredibly important to do this now, and not if the crisis has already unfolded. And the second thing in the short term is indeed that the Prime Minister says that this price must be high. Can he also indicate what that means, so that we are also sure that this sanction package is ready, and that we know how high that price is and that we are really doing everything we can to prevent this and give Russia a very good reason not to undertake any military operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u92	Agreed. And there too you can see that in Europe, fortunately, the thinking about how to deal with the sanction instrument and how heavy and credible the package that you are putting together is beginning to take shape. But there too, quite honestly, there are, of course, differences of accent between countries. The Netherlands is prepared to go very far in this respect. But also between the big countries... And I cannot say everything about this in public right now, but we know that, and we can all read that in international analyses, and it is also something that echoes behind the scenes that it is not that all countries think exactly the same about it. However, I believe that at the moment we are able to converge towards a package of sanctions which is sufficiently robust and really terrifying. Again, Scholz said of this last week: it is crucial that even a small intruder in Ukraine from Russia states that that is of course just as unacceptable, but perhaps could lead to the discussion "do you have to do everything?" It must be a complete sanction package that you roll out. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That's what we think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the issue of the European Parliament. I found the general point that Mrs Ploumen made: what about the room that is also there for the Chamber? The Prime Minister said 'I want to express myself very precisely', so I also have some precise questions about that, because I think that is really overwhelming on a number of themes that come back. Look, with a classic coalition agreement, that is binding on the parties that have concluded it, binding on the government, and that there is scope for the elaboration of the coalition agreement. Isn't that different about this coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u94	No. Only, it's one level of abstraction higher formulated in most cases. So if you look at a lot of parts of the coalition agreement, then of course that has to be worked out a lot further. Look at the ambition, for example. It is clear that we want to reduce CO emissions by 55%, and if possible even more. But the way forward, the details of this, in the case of this example, of course Rob Jetten, the Minister for Energy and Climate, will come to the Chamber with plans for how this will be further developed in detail. In a classic coalition agreement, this would probably have been worked out in full detail in an annex. We have chosen not to do so, so that more consultation is possible, not only about the direction, the true north, which is contained in it, but also about the impact, so that a broad support can be obtained for this too. And when it comes to the question of purchasing power repair, for example, I also say: I hear the suggestion of keeping the link up and I have heard the other suggestions. Only if it is demanded at instrument level that it should be that link, I say: I cannot commit to that here; we will come back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u95	I understand what the Prime Minister is saying. Then it is really no different than with an agreement of government as we know it: that space is mainly at points where no concrete impact has yet been given. But also in this coalition agreement, for example on decoupling, a concrete choice has already been made. Could it not also be innovative to say on these points: we are striving for broad political support; if we find that such a point as this decoupling is more sensitive, then perhaps we should be prepared to adapt it at instrumental level rather than in the past? Wouldn't it also be innovative if there were a little more space there than is the case in classical terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u96	Okay, but that's why I mentioned the link in raising the minimum wage, right? I'm not ruling that out here, am I? Just, I'll tell you what, it'll cost 2.4 billion. That is once again as much money as raising the minimum wage costs. And that is, of course, structural and not occasional, so these are very substantial amounts. And that's why I say we're looking at it. In my view, we agree on this increase in purchasing power, and now it is important that we do so, of course, in a way that leads to a majority, including in the Senate, and that also fits in with the ideas of this cabinet and this coalition, namely that we are trying to move on a broad front anyway. I hear the wish of the instrument. I am also asking, on the other hand, for Mr Van der Staaij, who, of course, has been concerned about public finances, to see whether this is necessarily the only instrument. We think there are other ways too. We'd like to sort it out again, get it straight, and then come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u97	I understand that, in the end, you have to look again at all the choices that are made, and that is what I certainly advocate about what price tag is attached to it and whether you can achieve the same goal in another way. But then you'll be open to that adjustment. In fact, does the Prime Minister now say that we should not hold on to this any longer, because we have agreed this as a coalition party; we must say that, on the basis of a substantive discussion or a broad consensus, it can be sensible to give more room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yes. May I add one point? If I say that, then maybe the image comes up: oh, so that link is back. That's not true, because that clutch costs a lot of money. I am just saying that we are looking at it, because there is a clear desire from the Chamber to see what is the best instrument leading to the goal, in addition to the instruments mentioned, namely increasing the AOW, the IO-AOW and the elderly discount. I realise that there is also a more fundamental issue for a few groups about this link. This also applies to the coalition parties and the cabinet. We also want to maintain this link and prosperity, such as the linking of the AOW. It doesn't change either. Only when we raise the minimum wage, we reject it once in our plans. There must also be majorities for all these plans. It shouldn't just be here, it should be in the Upper House. Apart from that broad support, there is of course also a political rationality to say here not arrogantly: figure it out with your idea; we do it our way. Of course, you can't do that. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u100	Good morning. I'd like to lower an abstraction level, if the Prime Minister's okay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u101	I don't have a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u102	Oh, yeah. We always heard the Prime Minister say, also in response to that low confidence, that he understands that people think: let's see it first. My specific question is: when are we going to see the changes? Is that today, is that next week, is that in three weeks? Can the Prime Minister make that concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u103	I consider that to be a joint mission of coalition and opposition, by the way we see it. It is, of course, up to Mrs Ouwehand to participate or not. So it is not the case that the cabinet says: we must now restore confidence in politics on our own. It's really a joint search. We have set out a number of directions for this in the coalition agreement and also in my, our, government statement yesterday. But then it's also a search. We're really gonna have to shape it together. So we don't have the panacea here. I do think that the great silent majority in the Netherlands is finally prepared to look again at Mrs Ouwehand and me and give us their confidence when they see that we are doing sensible things here. I think so. It's all fixable, but we have to work hard for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u104	But of course this isn't a change. This is a wonderful answer to a question I have not asked. We know that pattern. My question was about the following. The Prime Minister himself, in response to this low confidence and to the scepticism with which the people of the Netherlands, and also the House of Representatives, face this cabinet, said: I understand that. It's good he gets that. He also said at the time that he understands that people think, "Let's see it." But he said everything's gonna be different. Then the specific question is: when are we going to see the first changes in practice? Is that today, is that next week, is that in three weeks? Can the Prime Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u105	I'll try. You can see that now, of course, in the character of the piece that lies here. That piece isn't a classic shut-down coalition agreement, it's a coalition agreement. I think that's one thing. This also means that the cabinet will continue to hold the necessary internal debates, which, of course, aim at agreement and unity of government policy. But the cabinet will be able to head each other in chambers a few times, in a pleasant atmosphere, on a number of aspects of the elaboration of the coalition agreement. The second aspect, which I mentioned yesterday in the government statement, is that we would normally discuss it in detail with the four group chairmen in recent years. It won't happen again. You will see individual ministers here, walking through this building, to Mrs Ouwehand and other opposition and coalition spokesmen, looking for support. So that classic search for majorities continues, but the organized directorium of a coalition consultation is no longer there. So that's a change. We will have to look at how this is going to work out, but my belief is that if this intermediate world disappears from such an organized coalition dialogue, the debate here, as well as the debate in the Council of Ministers, will increase in importance and intensity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u106	I got some questions about where we are in terms of structure. I'd like to do that first, so everyone knows where we are. Internationally, we've completed. Then a number of questions arose about economics and finance. On this subject, following an order proposal by Mr Klaver, we agreed that we should do so at another time, but there are also a number of general questions about administrative culture in principle. We're gonna do that now. That is what Mr Eerdmans just presented to me. I call Mr Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u107	The point of principle is that AOW. You can see that, because it is shared so widely in this entire House of Representatives. The AOW-link costs money, but if you agree in principle that older people are not allowed to go through the ice financially, then you must admit that you are turning it back. Mr. Rutte, this was a mistake. That's what you can see by the support. There is 0.0 support in the Netherlands for this decision. It's not gonna happen, because there's no majority in the First Chamber. So it is also a political mistake for the Prime Minister to think that he can figure this out in the long term and come back with something, with a little bit of this and that and take a few turns. No, Mr. Rutte, you have to take this back. The elderly have no confidence in it, except when you say: that link will be restored. I don't think we can do this to those AOWs either. We just shouldn't do this to them. We shouldn't do it to them that they have to keep e-mailing and harassing us, because they're insecure. They're just insecure. In those living rooms lives...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u109	But that is why it is also a matter of principle, Mr President. This is really important. I say it because it is also experienced from left to right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u110	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister so that he can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u111	The transfer of government proposals in terms of purchasing power for people over 65 years leads to an increase in purchasing power of about 0.3%, where it is on average 0.4%. So that's very similar. Older people are therefore not so bad off because of the way in which the government deals with purchasing power across the board. The point is that inflation is increasing enormously. This now has a huge impact on purchasing power figures for the coming period. So that is what we have to face, along the lines that were also mentioned yesterday in the debate. You need to see which instruments are best suited for this. Mr Eerdmans actually makes a combination. I beg to differ. He makes a combination between, on the one hand, the goal of going back to the path of the coalition agreement that older people also grow in purchasing power, or at least have a positive picture as a group. I have already said that we say in the coalition agreement that we want to try to achieve that balanced, positive picture for all groups. However, I would like to add that we must also look very closely at how inflation is developing. We don't know that now. That's what I'm trying to do. Then you also have instruments. I think that the discussion that Mr Eerdmans and I have is next. He says: this instrument is so fundamental. I agree with him that the link is very fundamental. The cabinet attaches great importance to this. But in this case, we are increasing the purchasing power of the workers by increasing the minimum wage, both by 7.5% and by adopting an initiative bill. I was thinking of the Labour Party which is about calculating on the basis of the minimum hourly wage. Then the question is: how does it work, even in people over 65? We have said: we do so through the old-age discount. I hear very well what Mr Eerdmans is saying, so we are listening very carefully to that. We'll weigh that in the next few weeks. We'll see what the Central Economic Plan shows. In the end, of course, we want to try to restore that purchasing power image as well as possible. I've said that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u112	The Prime Minister will continue to defend the decision. Hard-ass, I'd say. JA21 is going to vote against this. If you go through with this, you'll be in the First Chamber of a cold carnival. I'm also looking at my colleagues across the street. That's very deep. That's anchored, too, so it's not gonna happen. How do you estimate that with your political antenna, which I think has dropped a little bit at the moment? How do you estimate this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u113	We're not there yet. We are now discussing the elaboration of the coalition's plans. In addition, we need to look very closely at how we can further shape this increase in the minimum wage. That is not something that is going to happen immediately, so we will have to get on with it in the next few months. This, of course, also affects the purchasing power picture for 2023, including the elderly. I have already said that we will all consider the various instruments that have been mentioned, maintaining the link alongside the other three options that have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u114	This is the last of it. Save the trouble, and that of your colleagues in the cabinet and also of the officials who are going to have to bow down and try to calculate this again. Then you come with 0.0% this or 0.4% that. Save yourself that effort and save yourself a new loss, after this decision that has fallen very badly. It's going to happen here in the House of Representatives, but I can guarantee you that if it's JA21, this will also be a soft spot for you in the House of Representatives. And with that this also has electoral consequences. You're gonna have to face that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr Eerdmans says I am defending something. What I am saying is that I am defending that I am not now making a commitment to agree with Mr Eerdmans. I say to him that we see that the purchasing power picture needs to be repaired. That is what I said to Mrs Ploumen. We are going to work on that, along the lines that were also outlined yesterday. In doing so, we look at the instruments that exist across the board. Mr Eerdmans says: I also want to hear from you now that you are not doing the one-off setting of that link. I can't make that commitment right now. That's all it is. And I hear what he's saying very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u116	The subject of economics, finance and purchasing power is now going to play a role. We are really going to do that later, because there are also questions about international policy now. We're really gonna do that on the order request. We actually went from the first subject, the block of "international" to the block of "economics." That's not exactly the point. I would like to ask Members to save up the questions about purchasing power. We'll take care of the international block first. Then we move on to physical habitat. Then we'll get back to economics and purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u117	I would like to continue with the relationship with Ukraine. Mr Paternotte just quoted it. I heard the Prime Minister say we shouldn't be a playing field, we should be a player. At the moment, however, Europe is again a playing field in this respect, where we depend on the United States, who are talking to Putin. We are not enough of a player and yet a doubting power. I think it is very positive that the Prime Minister indicates that the Council is looking for a date to come together to discuss this, to talk about how to do it better. I wonder if the Prime Minister would like to take the initiative there to launch a European study to see where the strategic shortcomings are within Europe and which Member States have the potential to fill those shortcomings, also in relation to the expectations of the United States that Europe will take up some of its own issues. Will he then also come forward with a proposal for that Council on how to better implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u118	In my view, Mr Dassen and I agree that Europe needs to express itself with much more uncle and strength on this issue. I have outlined that, in my opinion, the problem lies partly in Berlin and Paris. The question is whether they are sufficiently prepared to join their foreign policy sovereignty more together in a wider European orchestra. That has proved difficult so far. At the same time, of course, there is also great appreciation for the role played by Berlin and Paris as superpowers and G5 countries, G6 in the case of France. In any case, as the largest economies, they have a great interest in this, and we also need them to do so, but ultimately they also have a strong interest in convergence with the rest of Europe. What I don't think is going to work is a proposal from the Netherlands "let's analyse exactly where the problems are with Germany and France." I don't think they're going to vote for that. That's not gonna help you now. What we are doing now is looking towards the next Foreign Affairs Council, myself in the contacts, and the whole cabinet has been looking at how we can work out our position as best we can. The Netherlands plays a bridge role here; we are the fifth or sixth country of the European Union, depending on how you look at it, on the size of the population or on the economy. We are one of the founders, we are looking at the Netherlands, we have a position here. But if we were to say "we are now going to launch an investigation into why it is not enough to be a player instead of a playing field," I do not think that will work in the short term. So I think we agree on the goal, but I see that instrument working counter-productively in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u119	I think it's important that research is done and that you get it insightful. But let me just ask another question about the sanction package, which was also a brief one. Is the Prime Minister prepared to look at Nord Stream 2 and use it as a leverage?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u120	We are not ruling anything out here, but here too, we need to reach agreement in Europe. So it doesn't make much sense to make very pertinent statements about that either. But we're not ruling anything out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u121	When Nord Stream 2 is being used and we are dependent on Russian gas, will we then look at how it relates to pumping up gas here in Groningen, because if we get too little gas from Russia, it may have consequences again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u122	That's a complicated one, because I don't think anyone wants it. But if, in an extreme case, the Russians were to turn off the gas, everything would be in question again. There's no point in speculating about things like that now, is there? That's not in Russia's interest, is it? They need that currency anyway, so why would they do that? So far, they have honored long-term contracts and the problem is more on the spot with the Russians than on the long-term contracts. The further speculation about Nord Stream 2 of course makes no sense, because it does not help the Netherlands to say anything about it in public now in order to encourage us to agree on a sanction package in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you. I see Mrs Den Haan who had another question about the administrative culture. I should also like to look at Mr Omtzigt about international. Then we do international and then Mrs. Den Haan. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u124	I understand the Prime Minister's saying there's got to be some uncleph in the reaction. Of course, it is not in the number of Dutch tanks. Russia has over 10,000 and the Netherlands has leased some 20, so it won't be there. Do we have a package with Nord Stream 2, which Volt quite rightly asked about, around freezing Russian assets, of which large quantities run through the Netherlands and is the Netherlands also available to do things yourself? We don't need the exact details, but are we ready to do them? The second question is, also in view of what happened in Afghanistan: are there adequate measures available for the evacuations of not necessarily embassy staff and Dutch people in Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and, possibly, the Baltic States, so that we are not attacked by them, should they be necessary? I don't need to see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mr President, I am not going to speculate about the Baltic States here, am I? That's Article 5. Come on, let's not do that here. They're NATO members. If we had to remove embassy staff from Latvia, we would have ended up in a film where we didn't need this whole debate either. That's pretty bad. Of course, security measures are constantly being looked at in a general sense, but I am not going to say anything about them in public. The first one doesn't help either. If I am going to make very firm statements about what the Netherlands wants with the sanction package, how can we try to play this mediation role in Europe, including between the Germans, the French and others? I can assure you that we are prepared to go very far. But if I am going to say very hard things here or concrete elements in such a package that may be sensitive to other Member States... It must ultimately be unanimous, because the coalition agreement, strangely enough, has not yet been immediately translated into Europe in reality, namely that unanimity is on the way to sanctions. I don't think that's gonna help the case. I understand Mr Omtzigt's question, but it does not help to make public statements about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u126	I didn't ask what it was exactly. I have actually almost had the answer I was looking for, because I understand that I do not have the details here, that the Netherlands is ready for a sanction package if necessary in which exactly those matters are worked out. We do not need to discuss this here, because then you will not be able to negotiate in Europe. I get that. The second thing I ask is whether the Netherlands is prepared if something happens to Dutch citizens or embassies in Ukraine, Belarus or Russia. I do not need an answer to the last comment, but in addition to Article 5 of NATO, there is also Article 47 of the Treaty of the European Union in a number of countries. We have no obligation to defend Finland and Sweden when something happens. If Russia or anyone else is doing anything on a Swedish island in the Baltic, then under Article 47 of the Treaty I have just forgotten the obligation to assist Sweden. We are aware of that, but I would like to make the first two points clear. We are not going to work out the package when we are asked, and the same with the Dutch and the embassy in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u127	I'll have the Prime Minister respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u128	Foreign Affairs always thinks about risks for Dutch people abroad, of course. On the other point, you walk up together. If agreement is gradually reached on the type of sanction packages to be applied, then at the same time it also looks at what that means for its logistics. It is not so that hundreds of officials are all busy converting conceivable packages into what it would mean for the Netherlands. If Mr Omtzigt means "if you finally agree, can the Netherlands implement it?', I say, of course, we always work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u129	Mr Omtzigt, otherwise Mrs Den Haan has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u130	I have just said that, in general terms, Foreign Affairs always thinks about what is needed to ensure that our diplomats and local staff etc. can work safely abroad. Of course, I am also thinking about scenarios, but there is no point in the residue of this debate being that Rutte said that we are quickly evacuating our people from country X or Y, or that it is all ready. That also says something about what we expect. I'm careful about that. And the travel advice to Dutch people indeed, of course there is. But all these things are the normal work of the State Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u131	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group. A question about governance culture, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u132	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, governance culture is also that we keep to the order of the debate. The AOW is high on me, too, and the Prime Minister will understand that, but I will save it for the block of economics and finance. You have laid down a coalition agreement that you say is balanced and not boarded up. This means that there can be more interaction between coalition and opposition. Of course, that's very nice. But that also means that the cabinet listens carefully to the opposition, and that also means, in my view, that we take a serious look at motions that have been adopted and that something is being done about them. There is an adopted motion "VVD" and "D66" voted against to include generation policy in the government agreement to look at the ageing population, demographic developments and their impact on different policy areas. I find nothing of that in this coalition agreement. Can the Prime Minister explain to me why not, and can he tell me why he thinks the coalition agreement is in balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u133	The coalition agreement expresses the ambition to reach such a generational test, which we really want to do. For the coalition agreement itself, of course, we have to look together to see if it is in sufficient balance between all generations. This has to do with short-term and long-term issues such as investment in climate change. But again, the coalition agreement it's the ambition to come to a generational test. That is also an answer to a question from Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u134	It's nice that there is that starting point. Seeing each other means that older people belong to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u135	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u136	But nothing was recorded about it. You didn't say anything about that yesterday in your government statement. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u137	I haven't specifically talked about young people, or farmers, for example. You can't just walk through all the groups in a government statement. Then it becomes an inaudible story. It's been a long time. However, along a number of lines of vision, we have made an attempt to outline red lines from the coalition agreement. But let me fix that here, too. If that's experienced as an omission, I accept it. For this cabinet, all generations, and certainly the elderly, who have built this country must be able to count on a decent old age. We have the greatest concern for that. It's affecting purchasing power. It also affects the pension agreement, which will provide a little more insight into the indexation so that we can implement it. We want to do that with force. And, of course, it's also about the whole setup of our care, and our care for the elderly. So on all these points in the coalition agreement, including the great concerns about staff shortages, we are paying a great deal of attention to those who are a little further in life and need to be able to count on it. Many of them, of course, are extremely vital. But suppose they have to rely on benefits, either if they, like all over 65, are entitled to a pension and AOW, or if they have health reasons. Then that's where we're gonna be. That's obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u138	I take this as a promise that we will be very busy working on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u139	Sure. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u140	Now we're on the subject of physical habitat. I suggest we take a five-minute break, and then we keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u141	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the declaration of government. The President-in-Office of the Council has the floor again on the subject of the physical environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u142	That's right, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about that. Let me try just to answer it and not make all kinds of complicated introductory remarks. Will the 35 billion for the climate fund also be used for cross-border projects? We're gonna work that all out exactly. Of course, the Minister for Climate and Energy will bring this to the Chamber. Moreover, when it comes to the development of the fund itself, he does so together with the Minister for Finance. Of course, it is incredibly obvious that you also look at the international intertwinedness. I was in Berlin last week. Apart from the fact that we totally disagree with the Germans on nuclear energy, the German and Dutch approaches are actually very similar. In the transition, we're both working on CCS. We're both working on the green hydrogen backbone. We're both working on reducing CO emissions. This also applies to dependence on gas or LNG in the short term, whether it comes from Brunsbüttel or Rotterdam. On all these points, we are a far-reaching integrated area. I think it would be crazy if you said in advance: no, that should never be cross-border. I believe that the way in which we work will also show how we pay attention to international cooperation in the energy system. There was another question about the 35 billion, namely why there were not enough fundamental choices. I think we are trying, in the coalition agreement, to outline a number of clear directions: further CO reduction, including through tailor-made agreements in industry; tightening up of the CO tax; hybrid heat pumps and insulation in the built environment; nitrogen measures that contribute to climate issues; increasing air traffic taxes; investing in energy infrastructure and the use of nuclear energy. That whole package sets ambitious targets for a future-proof Netherlands. It is, of course, a question of impact. Again, the Minister for Climate and Energy will return with that. One question was whether the cabinet supports that Brussels has embraced clean natural gas and clean nuclear energy in taxonomy. In the process, there is no proposal from Brussels yet. A consultation is under way from the Commission. This is, by the way, a delegated power. If you want to block the proposal, 20 countries will have to do so. I consider it extremely unlikely that it will succeed. The Netherlands still has to decide how it feels about that. We have said: our starting point is always technology neutrality. What you do must be based on science. You shouldn't rule out technologies in advance. For nuclear energy, in itself, thorough scientific processes are being carried out. On the basis of that same science, for natural gas, it is much more doubtful whether you can estimate it as sustainable. So we will return to the Commission that we have hesitation in that regard. Then we should discuss in the cabinet whether we are going to abstain or vote against it. That's all we need to discuss. We should look at what the Commission is proposing in the final proposal. Moreover, the whole energy mix remains a national responsibility. That has to do with the fact that investors know whether something is written green or green or not. Then there was the question about the climate test. Maybe I can suggest we put it back in the cabinet. We discussed the importance of scientific reflection in the coalition agreement and its discussions. When I look at it now, I say: this is very similar to the climate test in Germany. In other words, is it objectively demonstrable that, in addition to a generation test, which I have just mentioned to Mrs Den Haan, a climate test is needed? Or has it already been decided in the elaboration of the scientific reflection? I can assure you that the Minister for Climate and Energy will come up with an impact on the pros and cons of an explicit climate test, in addition to the scientific objective input. There was a question about animal husbandry. The coalition agreement states that we are taking the initiative of a covenant on the development of animal husbandry. This will also form the basis for legislation. In this context, we are looking at how the relationship with the amendment that has not yet entered into force is being shaped. We will shape the covenant in consultation with farmers, market players, civil society organisations and other stakeholders. Of course, we are also discussing this with the Chamber. Is the government also looking at climate solutions that help the environment? Yeah, that was supposed to be. If we do things for the climate, they must also help the environment. Actually, that's the main objective, but it's okay if that leads to additional economic growth. This may be briefly answered in response to those questions. It also has to do with long-term investment and with modern agriculture, a modern economy. My personal assessment is that we will see in 2030, if we meet those targets and we are going to achieve them, that this has led to a huge change in our economic processes and thus a mix of jobs. This will also have led to a great deal of additional activity and employment. Then there was another question about the housing corporations. That is why we are suspending the market test. As you know, the corporations had to take that test before they were allowed to build middle-rent. To ensure that the investment capacity generated by the landlord's tax is used for the construction of flex houses and affordable rental homes, renovation, sustainability and the viability of neighbourhoods, binding performance agreements are made with the corporations. Mr. Chairman. There was also a specific question about the social rental sector. I think you can say that the coalition agreement contains ambitious plans for the housing market. This is also about increasing the range of housing, including social rentals, but also middle rentals and affordable residential properties. We also have measures aimed at low-income tenants, so that the cabinet can reduce the rent of low-income people, combined with an income-dependent rent increase for high-income people. The government agreement also announces that municipalities will be given the opportunity to introduce a rental permit, so that speculation with rental homes is avoided. This is, of course, being further developed. That will be important work, which lies with Hugo de Jonge. Mrs Marijnissen asked another question about selling social housing. The idea behind this measure is that home ownership contributes to living in neighborhoods. It also allows people to build power. That's what we want to encourage. It is clear that there should be more social housing. We are also working on this, inter alia, by abolishing the landlord's tax. Here too, Minister Hugo de Jonge of Housing and Spatial Planning will develop this further. Mrs Marijnissen also asked: why not freeze the rents? We believe that this ultimately has limited effects on the affordability of the rents. Of course, tenants who do not need it will also benefit from it, while at the same time a rent freeze has a significant negative impact on investment opportunities for, among other things, new construction. So we don't think this is wise. Mr. Chairman. Those were all the questions I had to answer in the field of the physical habitat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you. I see Mrs Marijnissen of the SP, then Mrs Simons of BET1, then Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u144	Just for a minute. It's more of a clarifying question. Since you are now so strict and are maintaining interruptions, let me add this point. The specific question was whether the cabinet could give the guarantee that there would eventually be more social rent under the line. This is because of the intention to give people in a rental house the opportunity to buy that property. I didn't hear a clear answer to that. So that's a clarifying question. Then about freezing the rents. The Prime Minister says that this is perhaps too generic a measure. But let me remind you of the Nibud figures that were mentioned yesterday. Mr Omtzigt showed those sheets yesterday which show that everyone, really everyone in the Netherlands, feels that way. At the same time, you can see that that was also in the news yesterday... that in the free sector the rents are now exploding. We know that rents follow inflation. We've analyzed this here ten times that's a huge problem. Then why can't we get ahead of that one time? Why can't we say now: the rents in the social sector have been frozen for a year and we are at least continuing to do so and, as the free sector also goes completely wrong, we are freezing the rents there too? You will really do a lot of Dutch people a great pleasure with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u145	In the short term, that will be possible. But again, it also affects the tenants who don't need it. More importantly, it has really far-reaching effects on investment opportunities for, among other things, new construction. However, the affordability of rentals is of course very important. I believe that abolishing the landlord's levy and making performance agreements will also improve affordability and address issues relating to new construction and sustainability. I already outlined that we are also taking specific measures for low-income tenants. But I cannot give you the guarantee that Mrs Marijnissen is asking for. As a cabinet, we don't build houses. Neither is Mrs. Marijnissen. This should ultimately be done in the sectors where this happens, such as cooperatives and elsewhere. But it's all about getting this done by making those performance agreements. We're not abolishing the landlord's tax for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u146	The landlord's tax finally comes off, after a lot of political struggle. We also discussed it extensively yesterday that this was a very unwise idea. I wholeheartedly agree with the Prime Minister and I am pleased that Rutte IV is now aware of this and that the landlord levy is going to go down. But to say here that tenants have to bleed for the huge rent increase, which is coming both in the social sector and in the free sector, cannot of course. The tenants are not responsible for the major housing crisis in which the Netherlands is now in. The tenants are not responsible for the major housing shortage caused, among other things, by Rutte III with that landlord levy. We have fought a great deal here about freezing social rents. None of that was possible. The cabinet then came up with the same arguments: it is too complicated, too generic or it would not end up with the right people. Eventually, we did it, and we did it. It's not that complicated. We see inflation rising, which is a big problem, and we see the rents explode, which is a big problem. There's no solution tomorrow, not even from Rutte IV. What we can do now is freeze the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u147	I have just given the answer that I do not think that is wise. But I do understand, with Mrs Marijnissen, that we have to look at affordability for tenants. Other instruments are available, and we use them. But the cabinet does not think it wise to freeze the rents across the board, because this really results in an effect on new buildings and their investment potential. This has a perverse effect in the Hague policy jargon, which you do not want. I agree with her that you have to look very closely at the affordability of the houses, but I do not agree with her instrument of freezing the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u148	I think there are some questions about renting. Mrs Ouwehand has indicated that she has another question after that. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Simons. I am also looking at Mr Dassen, but I do not see him. Anyway, first Mrs. Simons about renting. And Mr. Klaver also has a question about renting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u149	It is not specifically about renting, but about housing, the housing market and housing. Firstly, it is, of course, fantastic that a designated minister comes up with that. I very much agree with Mrs Marijnissen that much more can be done, but that aside. Yesterday, in my interrupting debate with Mrs Hermans, I also asked what we are going to do about it, for example, the fact that foreign investors still have the freedom to buy 'in bulk' buildings on the Dutch market, which means that they will withdraw that housing capital from our market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u150	We believe that it is really the responsibility of municipalities to combat speculation. That is why, in this coalition agreement, we want to give municipalities the opportunity to introduce a rental permit. This is partly aimed at countering speculation with rentals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u151	A rental permit? I compare them, for example, with an obligation to live. Is that the kind of measure that Mr Rutte is talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u152	This really needs to be worked out. Then Hugo de Jonge will of course also come to the Chamber. He is listening to this debate; I know that. He will certainly be more involved in this, given Mrs Simons' question, if he did not intend to do so. Think about the question of speculation and foreign investors. Is that always bad, yes or no? I really don't know about that. I think we should analyze that. Mrs Simons actually says it's always bad. Maybe she's right about that. Again, I'm not expert enough for that. But we come back with an elaboration of that rental permit and its precise nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u153	Then I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen, PvdA, and then Mr Klaver. I would like to check with Mr Dassen whether his question was also about renting and living. I see Mr Dassen nodding. Then you are after Mrs. Ouwehand. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u154	Rutte IV's coalition agreement cuts the rent surcharge. There are 100,000 social rentals sold and people with middle incomes are going to pay more rent. I do not see that this is my question to the Prime Minister, Mr President, where these measures are a solution to the deep, deep housing crisis that we are in, which affects so many people. I'd love to hear that from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u155	One of the things we're looking at is: how could you get rid of the surcharge system? For this we also look at the introduction of standard rent, to make sure that you can get rid of the rent surcharge. That is very complex, by the way. It also has all kinds of income effects, which Mrs Ploumen rightly mentions. We will also look at this in relation to raising the minimum wage and in relation to issues of purchasing power in full width. So we really need to work that out. Then the sale of rentals. I've responded to that before. Furthermore, of course, we are trying to take very targeted measures for low-income tenants. We also look at what you can do for people with a high income, for example by making the rent increase more income dependent, so that it is fairer. So we're looking over the full width. That is also reflected in the impact. But I think that the direction we are setting out is quite justifiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u156	"Honestly" in this case means that if you are a nurse and are lucky that you could find a home in Amsterdam, for example, near the hospital where you work, your rent goes up. That's not fair. The promise which lies in the name of the new minister, the Minister for Housing, the CDA has been advocating this for years too, because there is no breach of market thinking in terms of living. It's called People's Housing, but the VVD, this coalition, is doing everything it can to make it just a housing market. There the investors win it is not complicated to slow it down and there the tenants lose. You just have to be honest about that. That's what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u157	That's not our intention. That was not the type of discussion we had. Can I outline something about that? We have had very in-depth discussions with the four parties, with the eight negotiators. The particular thing about that discussion was that all the parties, my party, but also CDA, Christian Union and D66, tried to do so while ideology was put on the shelf for a while. We've put all our ideas on the shelf for a while. What's working? Where's the trouble? This means that some parties who said that they are by definition opposed to the possibility of buying houses in a more speculative sense now said: we need to map very precisely where the problems might arise. That is why we have said that municipalities should be given the opportunity to introduce such a rental permit. But also has been explicitly looked at that was more of a VVD-wish what you can do with the middle rental segment. Other parties have thought along with that. And what can we do to ensure that the people with a lower income and a cheaper home remain viable? I understand Mrs Ploumen's concern. We have also expressed the ideal of Wibaut explicitly. His statue is beautiful in that ugly street, but it's a very beautiful image. There are two beautiful images on that street: the Docker and the image of Wibaut. We also want to maintain Wibaut's ideal, namely that the doctor, but especially the nurse and the policeman or woman, can live in the city where he or she works. So we are looking at all these aspects and the most involved directors will be sitting together intensively in the coming period in order to examine the full breadth of infrastructure, spatial planning and housing. Hugo de Jonge is working on that. And again, I will also ask him to listen to me to address the aspect that Mrs Ploumen refers to here, that concern, as well as possible. But also to her the question: let's also see what does work and what doesn't work. The risk on this subject is, in my experience, real that we are all starting out. I can only speak for the four of us and not for Mrs Ploumen, of course, that would not fit me with our long-standing stickhorses. It was only when all four were in the corner that we had a very good discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u158	Let me see if Mrs Den Haan is interested in this subject. Yeah? I call Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group. Then there was Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u159	The housing market is locked. We all know that. The housing agreement states that a million houses must be built. A report has now been produced by ABN AMRO, which states that at least half a million homes of this kind should be life-proof senior housing. I do think building for old is the solution for young. That realizes flow into the housing market plus it can reduce the rising care costs. How does the Prime Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u160	Actually, just like Mrs. Den Haan sketches here. That must be part of those plans. I agree with her. I don't necessarily agree with those numbers of homes, because I don't know. It's not like I'm embracing every report of ABN AMRO, even though I'm banking with them, immediately. But I can imagine the direction they outline in that report. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u161	So that means that when we work out these plans, I assume that we should do so with the Minister of Housing, so that we can build for old people first, so that the flow starts and young people can finally find their place on the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u162	I would be inclined to put it a little more nuanced. We must realise that all these wishes are there for the housing market and all these are necessary. This indeed has to do with flex houses, with the affordability of homes, with renovation and sustainability. Of course, it's also about the quality of life of neighborhoods. And then to say, we're gonna build for old, I don't know if that's true. I just really don't know. This must be reflected in the development of these plans, and then we must discuss this further in the Cabinet and in the Chamber, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u163	I hear the Prime Minister in between saying he's gonna check it out. Well, that's good, because it does make sense. Building for old is the solution for young and realizes flow. I'd like to hear that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yeah, but not mine. Hugo de Jonge comes back with this. That's what he's gonna bring this thought into.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u165	The new governance culture includes transparent and clear communication with each other. On that point, I have a question. The Prime Minister said yesterday, we're going to build 100,000 homes a year. We've built about 60,000 homes on average in recent years. I'd like to know, klip-and-ready, can we pay this cabinet every year for the next three years on 100,000 homes net?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u166	You can tell us that we want to do our stinking best to realize that. But we don't build houses ourselves. That whole policy, all the measures we take, must be so organized, once again, unidentified, what does it work? That's what we're getting together. That is also the debate we have to have here. It is not the case that we hold elections if it is not carried out in a year. Not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u167	It is quite clear to me that Mr Rutte himself is not masquerading, and although I can do quite a bit myself, I will not be contributing to those 100,000 houses myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u168	Churchill could do that, couldn't he? He built his own house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yes. But it also worked half the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u170	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u171	Oh, yeah! The other half was reading it, sculpting it. Sure. If you take an example, you will have a lot of time at your disposal and perhaps you will still be able to mason. But I'm gonna go back. I am asking this because I understand what the commitment is and what we are going to do in the elaboration with Minister Hugo de Jonge. Many look forward to that on this file. He's coming up with an elaborate plan. The stakes are 100,000 homes. Exactly. Does that mean that homes that are being demolished go from that? So it's not a question of creating or converting 100,000 new homes, but, on balance, it's about adding them. Whatever goes off, we don't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u172	I think that's true, but I'm asking the government if I'm not making a mistake; they're listening. I think Mr Azarkan is right, but I make a small reservation. If I don't get back to him, he was right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand. Thank you for your patience, Mrs Ouwehand. It's nice of you to let colleagues go first. And then Mr. Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u174	I will even explicitly confirm whether Mr Azarkan is right; that is a suggestion made by Mrs Kaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u175	Mrs. Ouwehand, Party for the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u176	Mr President, I have a question of order first. Is it true that we have now had the block of physical habitat, in which climate and agriculture would be treated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u178	The Prime Minister added to the housing crisis for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u179	Yes. There weren't so many questions about that yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u180	Oh, there weren't many questions about that. In the country, by the way, about how the cabinet is going to solve that crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u181	Yes, but not in the political groups. I am not here to answer the country, but you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u182	I have another fun fact: in order to really solve the housing crisis, we also need to look at ground policy. Three cabinets fell for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u183	Including Den Uyl, about fundamental politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u184	Including Den Uyl. That was indeed the most famous case. So I would say, let's take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u185	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u186	Yes. Firstly, I should like to express my surprise. Funds of 60 billion and the Prime Minister answers just five minutes and does not answer the most important questions. Let me start with climate. The analyses in the papers of Rutte's great change act also imply that Rutte should be some kind of anti-Rutte if he does things differently now. I think that's really necessary for climate. If the Prime Minister is not going to say why a major transition is needed and why the 35 billion should be put into it, we can of course see how much opposition there will be and how easily resistance to it will be taken on stage. So I would just like to ask the Prime Minister, in his role as the country's leader, to defend and explain why a firm climate policy is now needed and how that 35 billion is being used in a good way, so that people at home do not think: now I have to take a heat pump, while Schiphol is just allowed to go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u187	The word "leader" always reminds me of Henk Vonhoff, who said, "Then I hear boots marching." So I'm just gonna leave that word...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u188	You don't have to. It can also be on slippers, as long as you do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u189	Yeah, I get the challenge, and I pick it up. I've been picking it up since 2008, to the great joy of my party, with my "Pamphlet of an optimist" on a green-right policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u190	I know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u191	That was not fully understood: they only saw "green" and thought "left." I left that to Mr Klaver afterwards. But I also discussed this in detail in the General Political Reviews in September. For all the reasons I mentioned, I personally consider it very important that we do so. I mentioned the responsibility for living in a clean country and having a modern economy, which generates jobs. We have to be able to see it all, too. That is also possible now, because we are able to finance this well with each other thanks to our prosperity. That's a huge opportunity. It would be fantastic... No, we're just gonna do that and it's laid down in the law that we're gonna achieve those intermediate targets by 2030 and then in 2035 and in 2050 those next targets. Then of course you have a country that... My goal is that once again we have that middle section of The Economist and that once again there will be an annex about the Netherlands, because there are very special things happening there. Maybe that won't happen now. No, I understand that's not happening right now, but it would be wonderful if we could manage that for the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u192	This would have been nice if it were 1992. It is not; it is 2022 and there is a lot of scepticism about climate plans. I also strongly appeal to the Prime Minister in his role as leader of the VVD because in recent years the VVD has not exactly promoted enthusiasm for climate policy. That means that the VVD and also the CDA have actually organized their own resistance. So I think it is the duty of the Prime Minister to actively express why it is important that we make those choices, that everyone in the Netherlands does not want their children and grandchildren to have it worse and that the chance is now to make sure that we leave the world better. But we have to act now. 35 billion is a lot of money, and I understand very well that people think: oh yes, 35 billion to the climate, while the AOW link is being released, while the youth care system is being cut back. There is therefore an important task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u194	That is, that we spend it well and that people understand why we do it, that it is also in the interests of the future generation and that the VVD here begins to reverse the resistance that it has itself organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u195	I simply disagree with Mrs Ouwehand on the latter. That is a political judgment of my party and I really must leave it with her; I just don't recognize it. I agree with her on the other point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u196	But when are we gonna see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u197	I think we can already see that, but since I disagreed with the last part of her speech, she will be dissatisfied with my response so far to the first half of her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u198	That's right. I'm pretty disgruntled. Then my next question. I've been asking questions about nitrogen. The Prime Minister didn't say anything about that on his own. I really don't want to interrupt that, because I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u199	Could you repeat your specific question? Then the Prime Minister can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u200	The 25 billion that is currently being allocated is in fact the same story as in the case of climate change. I understand very well that there is a great deal of resistance to this if the VVD and the CDA are not taking the trouble to explain to the Prime Minister that we were just wrong. If the VVD and the CDA had said in 2002 "we are going to hunt half the number of livestock farmers in the Netherlands," the Malieveld would have been full. That has been done as a result of the choices we have made. It is now time to do the farmers justice and to be honest. If we could have solved it sooner and if we had been braver, it wouldn't have cost 25 billion, but now we're in this situation and we need it. If you don't show that reflection and don't come back to all that questioning of science that the VVD and the CDA have done all the time I can see how much resistance there is to those plans. Then it's not gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u201	Again I leave her assessment of the VVD and the CDA on this file with her. Honestly, I don't recognize them, but that's entirely up to her. I also agree with her that the ruling of the Council of State in 2019 on the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, forced us to observe and recognise that the approach adopted so far was not legally sustainable. We have, of course, taken the first major steps at the end of 2019, beginning of 2020, with legislation, money, nature restoration and so on. Building on that, there is now a very big next step. That's actually a blow we want to give to the problem of getting it out. That's gonna cost a lot of money. I therefore agree with the rest of her speech. I leave her appreciation of the Christian Democratic Appeal and the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy to her, but otherwise I understand what she's saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u202	This is where the Prime Minister makes it easy for himself. I am making such a point because he is actually sabotaging the effectiveness of the fine words we read in the coalition agreement plus the amounts that are being put against it. He's been watching the debate, hasn't he? He's heard that parties say there's no nitrogen problem at all. If your only argument is that it's the judge's ruling, then you leave room for people who say "The Netherlands has set itself goals and that's where the judge goes to test of course," whereas reality is more comprehensive. We have known for twenty or fifteen years that if you have all these environmental goals, including our public health, there will be new pandemics if we don't pay attention side by side and you look integral, you can only conclude that the number of animals in the Netherlands has to go down by at least 70%. It's all accounted for. VVD and CDA never dared make that choice and didn't have to make it, because they always had a comfortable majority. So they didn't have to listen to science. Now we are in a situation where 25 billion is being laid down, while half of the Netherlands thinks: what is that really necessary for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u204	If you want it to be a success, you have to explain this. I call the Prime Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u205	I will. However, there are a lot of blames in the questioning for two political parties in particular. I do not recognize them, so I will leave them with Mrs Ouwehand, but we will continue to do as she asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u206	And when are we gonna see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u207	I think you've been seeing that for a while, but we don't quite agree on that. You're not convinced yet, but I'm going to try to make that sound even more convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u208	I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt, then to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then to Mrs Van der Plas, I suspect. I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u209	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the commitment to carry out a generation test on this agreement. I think it is very important for future-proof and generation-proof policy choices. On the second commitment of the climate test and the scientific reflection and whether these agree, I just wanted to clarify a little bit. That's where the Prime Minister went a little too fast for me. If I have understood him correctly, he said that the new climate minister is going to see if we are going to carry out a climate test according to German example or if it is already in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u210	The latter, in the sense of... sorry, I'm interrupting you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u211	I would indeed like to know. The German climate test goes a little further. It will also ensure that new legislation and measures are tested to ensure that they do not interfere with climate change objectives. That's all I care about. It is therefore important that this is not only reviewed at the KEV once a year, but immediately at the time of the introduction of new laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u212	What we are doing is really working with independent science and working on the basis of independent scientific advice. That is what we want to do in the case of nitrogen, but certainly in the case of climate. They will also assess and advise the Cabinet. We believe that this scientific reflection plays a role similar to that of the climate test in Germany as we interpret it. But, once again, I also know Mr Jetten as someone who likes the parliamentary debate and who follows it without a doubt. Or we'll just have to make a phone call. I would therefore ask him to take a look at what we have in the coalition agreement and what the Germans are doing, so that it becomes clear whether this is also the nature of such a climate test. I think so, but he'll have to convince Mr. Dassen of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u213	I'll get back to this. The Minister says that we are going to do good things for the environment, not just for the climate; it will also be good for the environment. This is then supported by independent scientific research. Now the cabinet, at least the previous cabinet, has an incredibly bad track record in this area. We've been defending biomass plants for days. We now know that technically these are simply not a solid solution. Trees are being cut down in the Amazon. They're being transported here with ships. Then we're gonna shred them and burn them here a little bit, and then we think we're doing something good for the environment. We've seen the same thing with solar fields. Instead of building houses or using agriculture there, we are going to fill these fields with solar panels, without upgrading the infrastructure for that. We've got windmills...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u214	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u215	Yeah, that question will come. I never use all my interruptions; an interruption may be a little longer. But in any case: a windmill is not currently being watched cradle-to-grave. It's just like this: gosh, that thing's running, it's getting a little power, we're laying a cable and you're thanking the cuckoo. But if you're going to calculate the impact on the environment of such a thing, you have to make it, you write it off, it's only there for twenty years, and then you have to recycle it, and then it's going to be a whole different story. In addition to Mr Dassen, shouldn't we just allow a very technical cradle-to-grave test on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u216	Again: therefore that scientific input. I know that Mr Van Haga was not always convinced by science when it came to corona policy. The problem with science is, of course, that there too insights can change. What she advises is not always black and white, because science also doubts and does not know everything. And politicians would like to know: is it yes or no? That is not always possible, and climate policy cannot do that either. I can already tell you that we will also be doing things in the coming years that we will later say we should not have done so. I can predict that already. If I knew where that was by now, we wouldn't make that mistake, but we don't know that. Why is that? I also said it the other day in the NOS: you know in advance that out of every ten decisions you make, one is going to go wrong, but you don't know exactly what that is. If you want all 10 of them to be flawless, you don't make any more decisions. Especially on long-term issues such as nitrogen, climate, but also the housing market, you can be sure that not everything we are going to do is flawless. In the past it has not all been flawless. If Mr Van Haga asks me to confirm that, I say yes, he is right. Moreover, I do not agree with all of his examples. I think that when looking for green forms of energy supply, osmosis, geothermal heat, tides, sun and wind should be parts of a good energy mix. That, I think, is inevitable. In there you have to look again if the net actually has the proceeds you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u217	I agree with that. It must, of course, contribute to a better environment in itself, but it must also produce a better environment in its entirety. The major problem is often that the technical analyses are made very specific on a small part. My request is: can't that be more integral? So I'm really thinking about cradle-to-grave, and not what Minister Wiebes said at the time, he's an engineer. You have a desert, you plant a tree, you chop it around, you have a nice circular story, then you can stuff it in a biomass plant and that's good. So my request is: just take an integral technical test, so that it also cradle-to-grave contributes net to a better environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u218	Well, what I promise is that, of course, this suggestion will also be involved in the further elaboration. But I'm not going to promise that we'll work out exactly that suggestion of cradle-to-grave, because there's also cradle-to-cradle. This is, of course, also one of those approaches in the environmental movement, which in the meantime also raises issues, whether they always work well. So I'd really like to give Rob Jetten the opportunity to consider that kind of technique and ask for scientific advice on it. But he will, of course, be involved in the elaboration, if there is a ride in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u219	Yes, cradle-to-grave, cradle-to-cradle... That's a little semantic, isn't it? We mean exactly the same thing: it just has to make a contribution from zero to one hundred percent net. And of course we're giving Minister Jetten a chance to show that he's doing good things. But we will be looking very critically at this, because in the end there will be 25 billion for a nitrogen fund and 35 billion for a climate fund, in which we heard from various quarters yesterday that the nitrogen base is very, very lean. So it would also be good if we looked very closely at whether we are doing the right things. Because often the problem is that we decide first what we're going to do. And then we're gonna do it as well as we can, but if we don't do the right thing, it's gonna be a big farce. And that appears to be the case with nitrogen and with climate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u220	That is why we try to do as much scientifically as possible well-founded to prevent, once again, greenwashing and do useful things. It costs a lot of money. Yet the profit warning: not everything we are going to do in the coming years will turn out to be brilliant afterwards. We're gonna make mistakes again. And that is what we must do, if we are to cope with this major crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u221	Thank you. Then we're at the... Mrs. Van der Plas on this subject? I can hardly imagine it; the physical environment. And then Mr. Eerdmans. That wasn't entrapment, by the way. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u222	Yes, thank you. I heard the Prime Minister say, "We have to approach things as much science as possible and base it on science before we do things." But yesterday, of course, we discussed here a few times that it has not yet been scientifically demonstrated what the state of nature is in these Natura 2000 sites. I have also discussed it with the Prime Minister in a previous debate on the coalition agreement. Then he also admitted that he wasn't fully aware of it - which in itself isn't bad, because you can't know everything. But I was curious, because he made a commitment at that time to have that figured out. And now we talked about it again yesterday, so I was curious to see what the status is now, and to what extent we are aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u223	Yeah, that part of the discussion we had... I thought I was there as group chairman, so I remember... But that doesn't matter, because I don't believe in hats and we're the same person everywhere, in any position. But I think we had that discussion when we presented the coalition agreement. Then we weighed on the hand and tasted on the tongue what we talked about, and looked again, and I do not think I agree with Mrs van der Plas. I think that there is an incredible amount of evidence by now, and that is what we are getting from the PBL and from many other institutions, for example, that there really is a serious problem with the quality of our nature and the conservation of our nature. For example, there is a discussion about where exactly this deposition comes from and how it strikes down, so of course you still have to look very closely at that. That is why Christianne van der Wal will, of course, make sure that the latest scientific insights are also involved in the development of the plans. But with the thought that we don't know what's going on with that nitrogen, because that's how it seemed to Mrs van der Plas, without denying it, because she said: I'm not a denier, but there are still too many questions, I think she ran the risk of exaggerating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u224	The Prime Minister cites the Planning Office for the Environment. But the Planning Bureau for the Environment also said clearly: if you take everything away in the Netherlands, so really everything too much I mentioned yesterday a few examples, shipping, industry, livestock farming, but the Planning Bureau for the Environment says: if you remove everything in the Netherlands then the nitrogen deposition, that critical deposition value, so the degree to which nitrogen falls down on those natural areas, the maximum amount, is still too high. The Netherlands cannot meet those critical deposition values, because those standards are so high, by ourselves. That's what I'm talking about. That's what I'm going to say to Mrs Ouwehand. So it has nothing to do with me denying or denying nitrogen emissions that there are court rulings and that we need to do something about it...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u225	Let me ask you a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u226	I would like to make that quite clear, because it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u227	That's what you've already said in your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u228	Yeah, I know. Fortunately, the Prime Minister has just said in the debate with Mrs Ouwehand that he does not recognize himself in that. But I do think it is important to mention that again. So it's about the precipitation on that nature. Those standards are just too high. We can't live up to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u229	And you want a reflection on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u230	The Prime Minister does agree that we should take a good look at this before we spend a lot of money on something that we might not be able to meet. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u231	First maybe the next thing to take away a concern. In addition to the fact that we will work on the basis of scientific advice in the climate, an ecological authority will ensure the scientific legal guarantee of our analyses, so that we can objectivate. It is, of course, ultimately important that we look at the conservation of nature. The goal in the nitrogen reduction and improvement Act is to speed that up. In other words, you want to bring some 74% of nitrogen-sensitive natural area below the critical deposition value. At the same time, we also have to look at the European issues related to water quality, soil, climate and biodiversity. That must be seen in conjunction with that. That is why there is also a lot of attention for nature recovery. It is therefore the Water Framework Directive. The National Programme Rural Area is, of course, involved in these challenges. So there's two things going on here. The first thing is that scientific foundation, that ecological authority. The second thing is the execution. That is what I am most concerned about on this very big issue. We have therefore also discussed in the coalition discussions the powerful management organisation that is needed to support that whole process in the end. Christianne van der Wal continues to pick that up, the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen. That's gonna have to be area-oriented. We need to adjust wherever we need to. It's not all gonna go wrong, either. This is such a big issue, so here too I predict that after a while we will say: hey, we should have done that just differently. I think we know a great deal by now to prevent this and thus to enable economic development. But the concerns that Mrs van der Plas describes here, as far as not at gunpoint, will also have to be reflected in the analyses that we get from those authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u232	Finally, one problem. There is another problem. One problem in these natural areas is that we, even as a Chamber, have absolutely no idea what nature organisations are doing there in terms of management. I've talked about that before. Nature organisations do not need to be very detailed about what they have done about nature management and about the restoration of nature. I think that's a problem, because we need to know exactly what it's because of something bad with nature. There are several factors. One of these factors can also be the way nature is managed. Nature organisations can indicate this in an annual report. This will then fall under the heading of management costs. But those management costs are not specified. They're too vague. We have already tabled a motion once on the subject of whether we would like to do so, just to clarify it. Again, not because we want to put the heels in the sand somewhere, but because we want to clarify exactly what is happening. We just want to know what we're spending money on and what exactly happens to it. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: is the Cabinet prepared to see whether nature organisations can also indicate to us more specific and detailed, i.e. to the Chamber, exactly what is happening with the money, the millions of grants, that they are getting from the Empire?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u233	This is, of course, partly in the terms of the grant and the agreements they make with the provinces. I want to prevent the impact of this part of the debate from being felt that nature organisations are the cause of the nitrogen problem. Fortunately, Mrs Van der Plas does not say that either. I don't think that's the first thing we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u234	The question is whether the Second Chamber can have insight...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u235	But the provinces are the funding agencies. That's not up to us. It is not that we are... May I say one more thing, in addition to the broader discussion that Mrs Van der Plas and I just had. Maybe it's good to add that. Because we don't just send for nitrogen. Eventually, we steer on the quality of nature. A second thing that is good to say is that reducing nitrogen is a goal, but we do not have the illusion that it goes to zero. You don't have to. It is about improving nature, such as more connections between areas, vernatting, et cetera. All these techniques must be used. But back to her question: the province is the granting authority here. I am also pleased to have that power, but I will also have this piece... Mrs Van der Wal can of course also involve this in the further elaboration. Then she'll know that question's coming. Of course, she and her officials are also following the debate. But my first reaction would be that we cannot oblige provinces to give that to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u236	The provinces of course do not have their own small business with which they make money, after which they give that money to nature organisations. Provinces get money from us. The money's coming from here. So I find it a little faint to say: yes, that's up to the provinces, because they give the money. No, actually we give the money, because we give it to the provinces and the provinces give it to nature organisations. If we think the problem is that big, can't we just say we need to know? I really don't understand why we shouldn't want to know and say that the provinces should do it. The problem is very big. That is said on all sides here. Then why don't we take a specific look? I don't blame nature organisations for a bad state of nature. All I'm saying is we need to know all the facets before we spend 25 billion. That's just what the bottomline comes down to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u237	On this particular point, I would like to point out that provinces are a co-government. They get part of their money from us, of course, through the Province Fund, and only a small piece of tax revenue, from the provincial revenue. But in the end, that is a completely democratic layer of administration with its own responsibilities. I am not saying that, by definition, it cannot be done if we want to have everything aggregated and reported back here again. I also believe that official LNV, Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, and especially, of course, the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen, should see if that makes sense. My first feeling is that we really need to stick to the provinces. But the Minister will certainly come back to that, because she now knows that that question is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u238	Good questions from the colleague. Then I'll come up with a good question myself, I guess. Rutte IV continues the Climate Agenda at a rapid pace, actually pushed through. I think the mega-wind turbines I was talking about are a problem for many people. We also see this in the resistance organised in the country. It's pretty horizon-polluting, you might say. They're ugly things. I don't think anyone likes a wind turbine fantastic for the picture we have. I don't even think on the left. I have already mentioned that a French judge has said: people who live too close to a wind turbine, who lived there before that wind turbine, get compensation, because it makes them sick. It's called wind turbine syndrome. That was at Toulouse's. Those people lived a mile from a wind turbine. In the Netherlands we are ready to place megaturbines of 200 to 300 meters high a few hundred meters from the inhabited world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u239	And you want a response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u240	I'd like to know how the Prime Minister experiences that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u241	Of course, I'm omniscient, but I'm not. I believe that this question was not asked yesterday and I must admit that I did not follow the last judgments of the Court of Toulouse. I understand it's relevant. However, I would like to say to Mr Eerdmans that Mr Jetten realizes that this question is going to come back and that he has to prepare himself for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u242	So I asked that question yesterday in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u243	Okay, but then you definitely have a point. I don't have the answer to that question in front of me now, so I'll give you that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u244	In second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u245	Yes, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u246	But in your own agreement on looking forward, and so on, it also says that we are thinking about distance standards. Then my question is: take into account that people who are too close to a wind turbine have stress and sleep less. That's problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u247	I stand corrected. The question was asked yesterday. It hasn't been answered now. So Mr Eerdmans gets that answer from me in the second term. We can also involve it in the elaboration. I'll see what I can do this afternoon. Otherwise, Jetten will pick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'd love to. My second point is about my tip 3 to this cabinet: do not muddle on points where you are literally walking into mud. This is true of forced people to collect natural gas. That's a project of your own cabinet. That was used by the previous cabinet. People are actually forced to be impoverished by their households themselves but without gas. According to the PBL, this costs about €40,000 per house. Fifty test gardens have been launched in municipalities to explore that for a moment. They all fucked up. It just didn't happen. Isn't it better to stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u249	It's extremely complex. Mr Eerdmans is right about that. At the same time, of course, you want to move towards a phase in which you move towards climate neutrality in the longer term. That will never be 100% gross, but it will be net. Then, of course, you have to look at this very seriously. But then you also have lessons to learn from what works and what doesn't. I mention the projects in Purmerend and other projects. Of course, we all follow this through the media. It's extremely complex. This is also complex in the case of new buildings. We do now have the finances to do so in a way that ensures that people do not touch the begging staff due to the importance of reducing our dependence on natural gas, but in the end, this cabinet considers natural gas to be a transition fuel, and that also applies to the whole of the European Union. You eventually want to go to a phase where you also don't need that natural gas anymore. Hence the discussion about taxonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u250	But new construction is a very different story than existing construction. Those are decent things, Mr. Rutte. That's a heat pump. You'd have to have room for that. I see those pictures coming over. Those things are sometimes 1.5 or 2 meters high. That's a big deal, and it's gonna cost a lot. My point is that I thought we were always doing experiments and trials to see how it would go. That is how I know you, too, as someone who sees that, when something goes wrong, we have to adjust or abolish it. That's how I used to know the VVD. So isn't "better in half than completely lost" the best proverb right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u251	It's not always the case that if something doesn't go the way you expected, you'll stop completely. Then you're also gonna adjust to see if there's another way you can do it. That is, of course, what the cabinet is looking at and what the leaders responsible are looking at. I understand that question very well; of course we will show it further in the course of the work and also learn lessons from what does and what does not work. But in the end, of course, you also want to reduce CO emissions further in the built environment, our homes, our offices. It's also part of that that you do it in such a way that we can go through it financially together, that people don't go bankrupt, and with a technology that can. These are, of course, all things that we are looking at very precisely at at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u252	But in concrete terms, do you think we should force people to get off the gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u253	Of course, it's not that black and white. In the Climate Agreement and also in this coalition agreement, we want to move towards climate neutrality step by step. So we also want to get rid of the gas as a transition fuel. People sometimes ask: why do we have to get rid of the gas in 2023? No, we want to get rid of the Groningen natural gas. It's not like we're not importing gas anymore. This will continue to play a role in our energy supply over the next decades. But in the end, for the longer term, you want to go to a situation where you can get rid of it. But, of course, you have to do it in a way that works technologically, including the people in it. No one has any interest in helping people with a technology that is not optimal or to hunt them down at costs that they cannot bear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u254	Thank you. Now we go to the theme Groningen. After that theme, I suggest we suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u255	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a rather difficult point, in response to the question by Sophie Hermans, the chairman of the VVD, who rightly said: be honest and realistic. I also saw the intense reaction in Groningen, the combination of the rows that stood there. I said something about this earlier in the debate, namely that even if it is not a repair, at least the money is there now. But of course that didn't shine that blunder away, not at all, I realize that. This has also been discussed in the States of Groningen, and I agree with everything that has been said about it in that meeting. But now back to the current problem of Groningen, namely progress in reducing demand for low-caloric gas, especially abroad. This has to do with Germany and this also has to do with the operation of the nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek. The fact is that it is extremely unfortunate, but it is true that in recent years the House of Representatives could not be otherwise informed by the ministers of EZK about the state of play in the phasing out of gas extraction. Two things have also been mentioned: one, for which it is crucial that we ultimately have that nitrogen plant and two, we also have to deal with possibly more demand from abroad. On both points, there is really an incredible setback here, which we are concerned with just as much as everyone else. It is not the case that this has been decided. I would also like to point out that the fact that this came out on the last day of the previous minister has to do with the fact that it was promised to inform the Chamber immediately if Gasunie Transport Services (GTS) made the estimates. It was promised in the EZK budget of 29 November that the Chamber would be informed immediately. That is why Blok sent that letter that there is a risk. It hasn't been decided yet. The mining decision shall be taken by 1 April at the latest. With regard to Germany, there is also a letter from him to Habeck, his German colleague, now the German colleague of Rob Jetten and partly Micky Adriaansens. I talked to Scholz about it myself last week during my visit. The discussion is now taking place between the two ministers, but Scholz and I will, of course, be involved in this when it comes to the matter again. But if the Chamber asked the cabinet "can you guarantee that the German question will go away," the answer is that I cannot guarantee it. The contractual obligation is there. If Germany were to hold on to that, we would try to reduce it in conversations or get rid of it, but if that were not possible, we would have to deliver it. I'm only being very honest about it. There is no point in giving the impression here that I can guarantee that we will get rid of this extra gas demand from Germany. We'll do whatever we can. And the Germans also understand the great sensitivity. Of course, they're good neighbors and good friends. The same applies, of course, to the situation with the nitrogen plant which has been delayed, which means that more needs to be gained there too. We know the numbers. It is extremely unfortunate and it was an impressive demonstration, that torch parade last Saturday in Groningen. I thought Mrs Marijnissen was there, by the way. I want to be very honest here in the Chamber. If you asked the cabinet to guarantee that the German question would go away, I can't do that. We'll do everything we can to get that road, but I can't guarantee it. Two. Guarantee that Zuidbroek will not lead to new gas extraction, I can't guarantee that. That's the honest answer. Maybe I can answer all the questions about the gas first, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u256	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u257	Then at least we have the core of the answer. Hans Vijlbrief was in Groningen, I had a lot of text-contact with him over the last few days and it was a very impressive visit. The thought that he's going to live there for a few days a week, I haven't been able to discuss it with him. I don't know if that's necessarily the best solution, but he's really busy with this. He will also have to do a lot here to follow up on agreements made in Groningen, but he will be there very regularly, there is no doubt about that. Then add up to what I just said. Once again, the decision is taken on 1 April. The decision of this higher gas extraction has not yet been taken, but the risk is there at the moment. That's what Blok reported to the Chamber. A question from the Christian Union: shouldn't security always go above gas extraction in Groningen? Safety is leading, so as little gas is extracted as possible. It's legal, the law says no more than necessary. This means that we want to end it completely and definitively as soon as possible and that we do a great deal for that. Hence the importance of the conversation with Groningen if there are any setbacks, such as this terrible setback of the past two weeks. And hence the importance that we not only talk about it, but also do things. I can go into more detail about the contracts with the Germans, but the short answer to the question of whether we can put the contract next to us is: no, we cannot get away from that. I do not think that would be appropriate from the point of view of the neighbourhood with the Germans and the relationship with Germany. But again, there too it is realized that this is extremely sensitive and we see what we can do to bring it down. In response to Mr Heerma: where I can be helpful, I will do so. The discussion is now taking place between the two ministers and, if necessary, we are looking at it again together. But no guarantee, unfortunately, that's my answer. I already said something about that horrible picture of those rows last Monday. That was certainly embarrassing; that was a blunder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u258	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Van Haga, then Mr Segers, Mr Heerma and Mr Paternotte. First Mrs. Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u259	It's sad, but of course Groningers doesn't have a damn thing to do with this. The Prime Minister doesn't want to give any guarantees and talks about how much he hated the picture. I think that's exemplary. It's not just about the image that's annoying, it's about Groninger being humiliated over and over again, and promises are broken over and over again, and the economic importance is placed above the safety of Groningers. That is why my question is as follows. This is a lot about regaining trust and there is still a long way to go. There are few people in the Netherlands who currently have faith in Rutte IV. I was indeed at the torch parade in Groningen on Saturday, and I can tell you that no one there has any confidence in Rutte IV at all. How do you think you can fix that if you cannot give any guarantees here today and the Groningen see over and over and over again that promises are broken?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u260	By not telling bullshit stories and naming the facts. That's what it starts with. If I give a guarantee here that we would be able to get rid of the German demand, if I gave the guarantee that not being ready in time for that nitrogen plant would not lead to more gas extraction, then here I am talking nonsense. It starts with reporting the facts as honestly as possible. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that, of course, it is not about the image. It's about what's really happening and the real feeling that's living in Groningen, which I get 1,000%. In its defence, it has always been reported that there are two major issues involved in reducing demand from abroad and with the nitrogen plant. Both are coming together now. It is a perfect storm where both problems occur at the same time, and that threatens to lead to a higher question from Groningen that I cannot brush away at the moment. If that guarantee is asked, I'm gonna be talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u261	What a hard message for Groningen this is. I think the people who were on their feet on Saturday expected a different answer. There were tens of thousands, but there were also a quarter million, a quarter million, from all over the country who participated online, to express their solidarity. And I think the Prime Minister should come up with another answer today. I hope that more parties and more MPs will make this a point. For it cannot be the outcome of this debate, which the Prime Minister says: I cannot give any guarantee. Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement there is hardly anything new about Groningen. This leads to the Groningen people getting the feeling right: "There is now a parliamentary survey going on, there in The Hague. They're probably all waiting for that, and we're in trouble much longer." Why, for example, does the Prime Minister not opt for a crisis approach? It has often been advised by the Ombudsman and the General Court. We proposed it here. Why doesn't the Prime Minister ensure that at least this retarded damage treatment is done in a normal way, that people are not sent from the locker to the wall and that they are not approached from who they are married, but from marriage? These are all things that the Prime Minister can do tomorrow, and he refuses to do those things too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u262	I'll walk them off. One. This parliamentary survey is complete, but from a to z, regardless of what the cabinet is doing to control the problems in Groningen. I can assure Mrs Marijnissen that. That's truth finding to the past. We can draw lessons for the future; that is the parliamentary survey. It has nothing to do with what the cabinet is doing to deal with things or not. I really want to have said that very loudly on behalf of the entire Council of Ministers, the whole cabinet. So on that point, I offer complete clarity. Secondly, the approach must be speeded up. Yeah, that's right. At the same time, I would like to point out that it has also been said in the area of directors, both provincial and municipal, as well as many residents, to ensure the administrative stability of the policy. This does not mean making new plans and ensuring that the plans that are there are implemented. That's a request people make to me over and over again when I'm in the area. It's about implementation. Implementation is not about new plans and creating a new structure. We have discussed this very extensively with stakeholders, both residents and organisations such as IMG, NCG and others involved in it in Groningen. That is exactly what Hans Vijlbrief talked about Monday and Tuesday in Groningen with regional directors, civil society organisations, but also, above all, with the residents, the people involved. He's gonna keep doing that without changing the whole structure right now. We have thought about that; we have also talked about it. But we've come to the conclusion: we shouldn't do that, because then we're going to slow it down and not speed it up. For example, the NCG has a broad financial mandate to do what is needed, whatever it takes. There will be a plan for every home that does not meet the safety standards. The damage recovery operation follows its own path through the IMG, and where the two coincide, there is intensive cooperation. Hans Vijlbrief will also do everything in his power to further promote this. But I wouldn't agree to build a new structure right now. I really don't think that's gonna help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u263	This is another file that has been completely ruined in the absence of technical knowledge. There's 600 billion cube left in the ground. We'll leave that there. That was hundreds of billions of euros at the gas price of a few years ago, and that is perhaps a thousand billion euros now. Energy costs are rising. We've become dependent on Putin. We still have delivery obligations that no one was aware of, apparently. And we totally blew up the Groningen guys. And that while the solution is so simple. Actually, I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if he'd like to look into that again. Can't we just take another look at it in a technical way? We keep the field at pressure by water or nitrogen injection, we produce at a low level and we are going to compensate the Groningers excessively and well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u264	We have the advice of State surveillance on the Mines, all the other experts who have been at work in the area and the supervisors. They have all said: gas extraction is a risk, and more gas extraction leads to more risk. If you want to get rid of that, you're gonna have to stop the gas extraction, and then there's still a residual risk. Then you'll still have vibrations for a while. Because the bottom has to expand further. That's not weird either, because if you get so much out of deep ground, it has effects on the upper ground. That, of course, is what we know since 2012, the terrible earthquake at Huizinge. All investigators are clear about that. So I'm not gonna spend time on all kinds of fun ideas right now. The scientific office of Mr Van Haga's party should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u265	This is, of course, completely ridiculous. At some point the VVD has increased production to as much as 55 billion cubic metres a year, I believe. The depletion ratio leads to higher seismic activity. The VVD is therefore entirely responsible for this. State surveillance of the Mines advised at the time to go back to 12 billion, because then you have less seismic activity. The VVD is responsible for this. The Prime Minister does not answer my question as to what the scenario is if we keep up the pressure. With this we have less seismic activity and continue to produce, making us make money, which allows us to compensate the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u266	We will do everything we can to ensure financially in Groningen that money is not a blockade. The Groningen National Programme will be rolled out in the near future to further strengthen economic activities in the area. I do not believe that anyone in Groningen who is following this debate would be happy if I said: you know what, Mr Van Haga has also read the Watch; we are going to find out. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u267	I find it a little bathy to say that Mr Van Haga has read the View. That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u268	You're right about that, Mr. Chairman. I take that back. You're absolutely right. But we're not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u269	The Prime Minister has a hand in saying things that are insulting, bathing or annoying and then saying with a big smile: I take that back. I take offense at that, and I find that really reprehensible. If you've got so many mistakes on your head, if you've made so many blunders and if you've hurt so many people in the Netherlands, I've crushed them all in my contribution and then here with a big smile says: "Mr. Van Haga has read the Watch," while you yourself have studied history and know about a gas field in Groningen, that's quite bad. I think this gentleman should apologize for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u270	Here's to it. I shouldn't have said that. Mr Van Haga is right about that. But back to his suggestion. We're not gonna find out. We have all the reports on Groningen here. So that's what I'm sticking with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u271	That was a personal fact. I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u272	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u273	I've got enough interruptions, and I'm not gonna use them all anyway. The problem is that incredibly many people have been hurt, because the VVD and the entire coalition in the previous period have committed these blunders with the gas field in Groningen. All Dutch people have been duped and the environment has been damaged. All of our neighbouring countries are moving towards natural gas and we are abandoning it because we were too stupefied to find a good technical solution. I would like to ask again: do not let everyone be loser, but let the Groningen, the Dutch, the environment and the Germans to which we still have to deliver be winners. The solution exists. You probably don't understand it, but there's a scenario where you keep up the pressure in the field and start producing in a normal way, with a low depletion rate. Then it's all possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u274	I just responded to that. Can I take away a misunderstanding I hear a lot? That is that with the objective to close the Groningenveld very quickly, the Netherlands would go away from the use of gas. I wish. That's not true. This leads to a huge import of gas. It is good that the Groningen field is closed, but it is of course not good that we are still dependent on gas for so long, like a very large part of Europe. Much of the gas comes from areas that make us geopolitically vulnerable. So we have to disconnect those two. Yes, we want to get rid of the Groningen gas, for reasons of safety and because of the agreements that have been made. There are now two extremely unfortunate developments, which had already been reported as a risk, around the nitrogen plant and around the demand from Germany. Eventually, we want to get rid of gas extraction from the Groningen field. However, we will need gas over the next decades, including as a transition fuel. That will make us dependent on other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u275	Well, that's weird, isn't it? This government has just launched a huge campaign to get rid of the gas. Houses had to be gasless, as if gas were not good for the environment, while we now know that it is good for the environment. The funny thing is... no, it's actually not funny at all. What I'm worried about is that there's some kind of emotional, electoral argument that we've chosen for a suboptimal solution. I am sure that is the case, because I was there when you announced this in the group of the VVD. So it's a big farce. We're making the wrong decision. I'd appreciate it if you'd just take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u276	Again, all studies show that there is a direct correlation between gas extraction and earthquake risk and that it is best for the area to stop the gas extraction. Then you'll still have an after-delicate effect that may take a while. On the basis of these scientific insights, we made the decisions and made the agreements with the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u277	We have Mr Segers, then Mr Heerma, Mr Paternotte, Mrs Simons and Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u278	I already referred in my contribution to the conversation I had with Groningers on Monday. What you hear there is that they didn't primarily go first in the casuism, but that it was more this confluence of circumstances, the perfect storm, as the Prime Minister said, that exposes a pain that is latent. Do they even see us? Do they even hear us? Does it take a torch ride every time to make that clear? In that respect, two questions to the Prime Minister. The first question concerns his response when asked about the impact of the additional gas extraction on the safety of the Groningers. I think that's what he was asked to do for the lodge. Apparently, the Prime Minister reacted loosely that this could indeed have consequences. Maybe it is good to go into that in more detail, because we have said that safety is paramount. He just said that in his first contribution. It might be good to go into that later. Secondly, it was clear that there was too little money for too many people in this scheme for strengthening houses. The painful thing is that those people had to line up before the money was adjusted. Are you sure there's no other way? Can it really not be properly considered in advance: what is the arrangement and how does it work out? Then we'll avoid the painful scenes as we've seen them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u279	That's totally misjudged. I fully agree with Mr Segers. It's totally misjudged. As chairman of the club, of course, I take full responsibility for this. It was estimated that a maximum of €10,000 was available per address and that a maximum of 53.000 addresses were included. Then you get over 500 million, while there was a pot of 300 million for two years. There was the idea that not everyone would need the full €10,000 and that not everyone would make an application. I'm sure there were assumptions about that. But the line that stood there, while we dropped beautiful pictures on the burgundy: that is of course extremely painful, apart from the combination with that burgundy photo. I'm really sorry about that. People in wheelchairs and with rollers in the cold, when they felt like they were competing with each other. I'm not gonna try to make that a good thing. This is just a blunder. You shouldn't have done that. I am very pleased that Secretary of State Vile letter has taken immediate action. Then there's the other point. I said that our knowledge is that no more winning is safest and more winning is of course less safe. This is, relatively speaking, not about winning very large quantities, but it doubles. It goes from 3,5 bcm towards 7 bcm. Earlier we won 40 bcm to 50 bcm, so it's relative, but that doesn't matter. People assumed that we'd wrap it down. I'm not going to try to make it any smaller than it is. It's just terrible that it's still necessary to win more. But that was a risk. I also really want to be clear, to Groningen, but also to the Chamber: I cannot guarantee that it is not necessary. We will do everything we can to minimize it before 1 April. But I also understand that Groningers look at it more broadly and say: we are all done with The Hague and the gas extraction. Then what's happening here isn't helping at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u280	I am glad that the Prime Minister says: we should have done this differently, we learn from mistakes and we want to do it differently. I think that's the only way you can control it. I am also glad that there is now a person of government who is particularly responsible. I hope it looks more integral. Now it was a confluence of circumstances, because the survival of the child's heart centre was also called into question. There was a planned decision on that. That's where the extra winning came in. The timing wasn't right either. It was just before Christmas and it was on the last day of the previous minister of EZK. That's also hard hit in Groningen. So such an extra ruler helps to look at it more integrally and also to be very honest in the proper consultation with Groningen. That appealed to me in what the Prime Minister said: I'm not going to promise something I can't deliver. That is indeed a recipe for even more frustration. But then, please, let's do it carefully, in good consultation. I have made the suggestion to sit in Slochteren which was done by the Secretary of State himself very close to the Groningen people, and step by step and integrally to see how we can operate this province in a good way. If there's a need for a new governance style and a new impetus somewhere, it's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u281	Totally. The timing of the previous minister's letter had therefore really to do with a commitment to inform the Chamber immediately if there was an estimate of GTS. There was that estimate. But I fully agree, also in relation to the other decisions. That is why I think it is also very good that a foreman has been appointed for the Groningen National Programme and its roll-out. Hans Vijlbrief also sees it as his responsibility to see how we can coordinate communication in this extremely delicate and sensitive dossier. I hope we don't make any mistakes. Sometimes information also comes out from sources that we can't control, but here we could have been better in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr Heerma of the CDA and then Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u283	The Prime Minister acknowledges that a false start has been made and that there has been a perfect storm. I think the people in Groningen felt like, "Here we go again." I believe that this is within the framework of what I mentioned yesterday in my first term: the benefit of the doubt has been turned to the disadvantage of mistrust. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for promising his personal commitment, for being willing to talk to Schulz about this and not just to the Secretary of State, also because Germany is indeed a good neighbour and that may help. My question to the Prime Minister follows on from Mr Segers' question. I think it is important for the Cabinet to make every effort to ensure that the gas goes down again and that it is also looking for creative additional opportunities for that. But the second thing is that this commitment must also be made visible and palpable in Groningen, so that they are not attacked again by that feeling of "we are going again," but that they are included in a feeling that hopefully ends in: "they have done something for us in The Hague." How does the Prime Minister intend to shape that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u284	I think we should at least make sure that towards 1 April, when we know how big the damage is, we prepare and introduce it properly, so that it is not suddenly a smash-boom moment. I will try to play a role in this myself where appropriate. I'm gonna help Hans File letter in that. Not because Hans can't, but by doing it as a team, let's show that we're a team for that. That's one. The second is perspective. What is so frustrating about all this, of course, is that the perspective is there. What ever started when something beautiful....................................................................................... But there are all plans for the future of Groningen, so that this proud province and its proud residents have perspective again, also in the economic sense. We have made plans in the coalition agreement for infrastructure, etc. This shows that we invest and that they belong. We're all one area. A miscommunication in Groningen is a miscommunication throughout the Netherlands. Not all of the Netherlands follow that, but 250,000 people follow that. The torch parade was in Groningen, but that ran all over the Netherlands. Mrs Marijnissen just said that. On the Internet, a quarter of a million people followed it. That's how I feel since I got involved in this file a year ago and got to know so many people who are suffering so much from this enormous misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u285	Mr Paternotte of D66, then Mrs Simons of BE1 and then Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u286	Several have already said that the start of 2022 resulted in a very unheimic feeling for many people in Groningen. That was of course because of that image of people standing in line in the cold, followed by that torch parade, but also by the message that other things would be removed from Groningen next to gas. Those things don't necessarily have anything to do with each other, but I get the feeling of the Groningers very well. That is why I think we have a duty to do everything in our power to ensure that as much gas as possible can remain underground. It is good that the Prime Minister says that the Secretary of State is going to relate to Mr Habeck, who himself comes from the northernmost Land of Germany, but it may well be necessary for him to understand himself directly with the German Chancellor. Because it will indeed take an apple on the Germans to look at alternatives in turn and to make arrangements with large consumers. I'd like to ask that question. In addition, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to take two more alternatives and to do everything possible: to import and mix nitrogen, so that we need less gas, and to make agreements with large consumers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u287	On the first point, the answer is yes. I also discussed that point with him last Thursday in Berlin. We have established that the conversation is now taking place between the rulers from the Netherlands. Premeditated is Hans Vijlbrief, but of course also Rob Jetten and Micky Adriaans from their package with responsibilities. On the German side, it is Prime Minister Habeck. But we will, of course, have also spoken to each other in direct contact where that helps and helps to overcome or minimize this problem. But there's also a risk that it will come out that it's full... that it's necessary. I just don't know. I really do not want to give the impression, after all the misery of someone here, that we can already give hope, other than this total commitment. Then perhaps a word about the technique of phasing out gas extraction. Because there was news about... I need to look into it. I believe that's what The Financial Daily was talking about this week. The news was about the conversion of companies. About that. The conversion of large consumers reduces demand for low-caloric gas. That makes our gas system more robust. Indeed, there is a delay in four or five customers. That's what the FD wrote about, The Financial Daily. This information is not new to Economic Affairs. The Chamber has been informed of this a few times at the beginning of 2020. For the time being, GTS indicates that it is the club that is looking at what is needed, that the delay has a slight effect on the necessary gas extraction from the Groningen field and has no impact on the closing date of the field. This is what GTS says. Also here: please, these are not guarantees. I am going to say this in everything, because I do not want to give the impression in Groningen that we are now giving a guarantee. But this doesn't seem so bad. Each year, GTS examines whether this picture is still correct, taking into account the progress of the other measures. The Minister for Economic Affairs also informed the Chamber that he was still a "he" at the time to consider the possibilities for further reduction of delays. Of course, this includes the suggestions that Mr Paternotte mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u288	It is good to hear that we all agree that it has been a scandalous display in Groningen, in which people had to stand in line waiting for their turn for a compensation they are entitled to. I am really very pleased that the Prime Minister acknowledges that, but I am fascinated by how such a situation can arise. What way of thinking, ideology, is there behind the fact that such a decision is being made? We have an x amount available. That's not nearly enough for everyone. First come, first served. I think that, if we are looking for a new culture, we need to make that analysis a very good one, because if we are waiting for a parliamentary survey to reach a conclusion, this error has of course been made a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u289	I agree with Mrs Simons. It's been estimated. Looked at what I just said: $10,000, $53,000 houses and not everyone would use them. It would be three years from now. It was then reduced to two years. The best intentions have been to make an estimate based on an expectation. That's how I analyze it. I don't blame people for that either. Everyone has done that with the best of intentions. It was also discussed with the Groningen drivers. They also took responsibility for this at the State Assembly last week. They suck just as much as I do.With the best of intentions, a monster has been created, namely a row of people with rollers, wheelchairs, everything in the cold. There's been a lot of talk about that. That was a terrible situation. The lesson you have to learn from that is that when you say "whatever it takes," you don't have to sit down prissy windows like we've done. Again, that is not a reproach to officials. Not at all. I think they really thought with the best of intentions: this will work out in a good way. I think they have also had expectations about how many people would use it and that they have thought that not everyone would receive the full €10,000. In that case, you get to 300 million and not the full 550. It's a good thing the whole 550 is here now. If that amount is needed, it is available, and if it turns out to be less, then less is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u290	Of course, such a process of window-windowing is self-evident. I also hope that the responsible people will look into this. But my wonder is actually in this thought. Since the resignation of the previous Rutte cabinet, we are discussing the need to change the way in which the government is addressing its citizens. And yet a year later, a situation arises in which the government says to citizens: you are entitled to do so, but you are going to stand in line and you are going to hope that you are on time. There were people standing there at 5:00 in the morning, because indeed, you don't know how that works. The thought of leaving people in line for something they deserve! I see that as a... I'm just trying to understand that. For me, that's related to the question of what kind of government you want to be and how you want to deal with your citizens. Do you really take your citizens seriously, just citizens who are hurt by your own actions, if you leave them in line for something they are entitled to, or at least part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u291	I'd like a reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u292	I'm embarrassed when I see that footage. Agreed. I think everybody. I'm sure no one thought in advance: let's line up in Groningen with people with rollators and then there turns out to be too little money. Of course, that was never the intention. But it has turned out completely wrong, and that lesson needs to be drawn, so that we don't. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u293	It could have been prevented. My colleagues Henk Nijboer and Sandra Beckerman have warned that there were not enough resources available to ensure that all people who were entitled to that grant would also receive that grant. Of course, that's what created that line that's so humiliating. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister just said: the best thing is to stop mining gas in Groningen, and that is also promised to the Groningen people. We agree on that. He says: I can't guarantee it; the nitrogen factory, the contract with the Germans. But there is also another option, and I would like the Prime Minister to examine it more actively and also to make a commitment to the Chamber to do everything possible. That option is not only to do something about supply, but also to further reduce demand. If the supply of electricity is inadequate, then companies will be scaled down. I hear the Prime Minister say that there are some examples of this, but that its impact is small and that we have known it for a few years. I would say: now give the guarantee, the promise that you will do everything in your power to ensure that that demand is reduced and that you will engage with companies, large users, provide options, provide alternatives, so that that demand is reduced and the promise to the Groningers can be kept! Because that's what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u294	As I said, following the article in Het Financieele Dagblad, the impact of this delay and the conversion of these companies is expected to be limited, plus that it does not appear to have an effect on the end date of the gas extraction. Of course we look over a broad front, but I cannot see now whether Mrs Ploumen's suggestion is legally or otherwise feasible. I just don't know. In any case, I will ask Hans Vijlbrief to look into this too, but I cannot make a commitment about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u295	Thank you. We have thus completed the theme of Groningen, as far as you can talk about completion in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u296	Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u297	Of course, that is not the situation at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-3.u298	I'd like to meet with the members to suspend until 2:15 p.m. Then we will continue with the topic of economics, finance and purchasing power.
