ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term on the part of the Chamber of the debate on the Minimum CO price Act for electricity generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group welcomes the two leaders in our midst and looks forward to constructive cooperation, in which we have every confidence. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group strongly supports the implementation of the Climate Agreement. Measures that contribute to achieving the ambitious and necessary climate objectives can count on our support. This could possibly also apply to the present legislative proposal, which provides for a minimum CO price for electricity generation and a CO tax if and in so far as the ETS price is lower than the minimum CO price set. Nevertheless, we have the necessary questions and doubts when examining this legislative proposal. We hope that in the course of the debate the directors will be able to answer these questions and doubts so convincingly that we can adopt the legislative proposal after this debate. These doubts relate first and foremost to the effectiveness of this bill. In the explanatory statement dating back to 3 June 2019..... the world looked really different........................................................................................................................................ In the view of the then cabinet, "other EU Member States and our neighbouring countries would be encouraged to pursue more ambitious energy and climate policies and, like the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, to adopt a minimum CO price for electricity generation." In the meantime, we are almost three years ahead and so far only the United Kingdom has a minimum CO price. In Germany, a coalition agreement has been concluded which also provides for this minimum CO price, but we are curious as to how that agreement relates to this bill, because I think there are a few other elements in it. This raises the question whether the Netherlands still has the ambition to be an example in this area for other European countries. Or is it rather the case that most European countries have more confidence in other climate measures? It is also striking that the Netherlands initially assumed that the identified security of supply risks would be reduced if the neighbouring countries also introduced a minimum CO price. The electricity generation of electricity that comes back every time.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That aspect of security of supply is, as has been said, a regular one. That is why the Netherlands only wants a "relatively slight incentive" when drawing up the minimum CO price, as the cabinet said at the time. It's a relatively slight stimulant. But once again, the question arises as to what the real level of ambition of the Netherlands is with this bill. Do we really want to continue to take that leading role in Europe or are we already so afraid of compromising security of supply that we are introducing a measure that will have little effect? The latter is confirmed by the fact that no revenue is budgeted for this measure, because the current and expected ETS prices are higher, much higher, than the minimum CO price provided for in this proposal. There is a decline in these prices, but it is likely to have to do with the horrors in Ukraine. In the foreseeable future, therefore, there will be no additional tax under this law. So we're talking about a tax that's not going to happen for the time being. We're not used to that. Are we not, in fact, dealing with a legislative proposal that at most has a symbolic function? Now the symbol function of a law in itself can be valuable, but here it is the question of exactly what this symbol function means if the Netherlands is so reluctant with this new fiscal instrument. The only thing you can argue in this respect is that the generators of electricity, when making investments that reduce CO emissions, know that they at least save the minimum CO price, as the ETS price also saved is less predictable because of the fluctuating demand and supply in the market. I ask the rulers to what extent that is a convincing reason for introducing this bill. In view of the above, the increase in the administrative burden associated with this law should a CO tax still be levied raises the question of whether the Netherlands could not better look at other, more effective instruments to reduce CO emissions, such as solutions at European level. What is the view of the rulers on this? Another point of concern to us is the risk of the Netherlands being accused by the European Commission of granting prohibited state aid, as this bill only applies to electricity generation companies and not to energy-intensive users. According to the Government, this is unlikely, with the main argument that the European Commission has not taken that view with regard to the United Kingdom, where a similar arrangement applies. However, we refer to the experiences with the recently withdrawn BIK. The government was also initially convinced that there was no prohibition of State aid, but it subsequently received a different message from the Commission. That is why we ask the directors whether it is better and wiser to refer the state aid issue explicitly to the Commission before the law enters into force. After all, there can be no comments on it, but is the question whether the limitation to electricity generation could possibly give rise to State aid also explicitly submitted? Finally, Mr President. We have doubts about how the administrative execution of the additional tax imposed when the ETS price falls below the minimum CO price is regulated. It is not the Tax Administration that will be responsible for the levying and recovery of this CO tax, but the Dutch Emission Authority. We understand very well that the Tax Administration is facing serious capacity problems, but is this a correct contribution to the solution? Are taxpayers well served by an entirely inexperienced tax service such as the NEA, especially by a law as crucial to the protection of tax law as the General Law on State taxes? See also the opinion of the Council of State on this. Can the Secretary of State for Taxation and Tax Administration also address the question as to why the CO tax in question is a tax within the meaning of the AWR? In addition, the management of the NEA is an independent administrative body, while the administration is an external service, an agency of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. However, for the implementation of the legal provisions on the minimum CO price, this service is under the authority of the Minister of Finance. Isn't this Hague construction doomed to lead to implementation and alignment problems? I refer to the experience with other structures involving several departments, such as the surcharges. Mr. Chairman. We hope that the rulers will be able to remove the questions and doubts we have raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u4	Does the CDA Group in the First Chamber believe that the Netherlands should become a frontrunner in the field of climate and energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u5	I would certainly not avoid this challenge, but if it is merely expressed in symbols and we actually shy away from the possible consequences in terms of security of supply, then I wonder whether we should be a little more modest and join in with what is happening in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u6	Mr Essers rightly referred to Germany for what is happening in Europe. Germany is very important, also in Frontier Economics' analysis of security of supply and so on. Wouldn't it make sense to say: come on, Secretary of State, come on, Minister, we'll do one plus on it; get on with Germany and come up with a higher minimum price? Then we are talking about something, because we want to be the frontrunner in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u7	That is a point I have actually heard in all the contributions so far: we take note of this law, but there is a lack of it. And now you are referring again to the situation in Germany, where there are likely to be higher minimum prices. Yes, if you want a law that is effective and you now find that the ETS price is much higher than that minimum price, then you have to withdraw that law or you have to raise that minimum price or at least come up with a mechanism such as the wobble tax that Mr Crone mentioned. Then it will help, but I wonder if we are on the right track with a law floating above the market, which has no effect, which does not bring any revenue, but which, if it is introduced, will entail a great deal of administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u8	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u9	I'm just trying to figure out what the CDA group is up to right now. I'm hearing doubt. I can imagine. Everyone here has questions about this bill. It's up to the Cabinet to answer it properly. But with doubt, you can go both ways. I hear Mr Essers actually say: no, I do not want to avoid a challenge as a climate leader in Europe. But when I ask him, I actually hear him say: Secretary of State and Minister, throw this bill in the trash. That doesn't rhyme with each other. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u10	We have a debate in which opinions are exchanged. We really want to be very serious about that. We have our doubts. We haven't finished our mind yet, but we're very curious about the response from both rulers. We can do this, and I have also said that I very much agree with all the doubts expressed by my fellow Members here. Then the most logical question is when we talk about a law that has more symbolic effect than actual effect: should you perhaps not go back to the drawing board and come up with a new bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u11	Thank you. I shall now move on to the next speaker. That is Mr Van der Voort on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u12	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group welcomes both rulers to the Upper House. We hope for good cooperation. The subject on the agenda today is a good one. After all, the climate is the greatest concern for society, both in the short and medium term and in the long term. It is therefore that the new government has also appointed a Minister for Climate and Energy. I personally and my group as a whole am very pleased that Mr Jetten holds that post. Mr. Chairman. Our group would like to begin by expressing our concern about the situation in Ukraine and Russia, particularly, of course, with regard to humanitarian suffering. The situation also has a direct link with the energy issue and with the prices of energy. That's how it connects to the current bill. This legislative proposal provides for the legal anchoring of a minimum price for produced CO in electricity generation. At least, the imposition of a tax up to the minimum price should the price fall below that minimum. It's a strange construction in itself. The free market determines the price of allowances, but under a minimum price the government will intervene. In a broader context of the law, it can be considered critical once again, namely by reducing the amount of allowances to be issued over time, a shortage is deliberately created with the aim of increasing the price and thus increasing the incentive to reduce emissions. This regulation is necessary because the public interest of CO reduction is too great to be left to the market. This raises the question that is increasingly raised in the changing era, namely: what is the place of the market in terms of public value creation? The paradigm New Public Management, in which market thinking is central, is shifting to public value management, in which the creation of public value is central. The policy for a living and sustainable climate is perhaps the best example of public value creation. Although you can argue that the ETS market is functioning well, in the light of public value management, it is fascinating to reflect on why a free market is still operating at all when it comes to climate. Are these objectives not so important to society that it is not the market but the government that has to implement them primarily at national or European level? Can the climate minister share his thoughts on this in a broader sense? Mr. Chairman. The First Chamber likes to look at the execution. The tax and collection of the tax in question shall not be carried out by the Tax Administration. The Council of State is also critical of this. Why does the government hold on to the construction of collection by the NEA, while the Council of State makes a clear and valid argument not to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u13	I was surprised by the fact that the Liberal Party par excellence now has doubts about market forces, because the government might have to take over. That is a false contradiction, I say as a market socialist. The government can let the market do the job, as long as it sets standards. This can be done through permits and that sort of thing, but also through a high levy. So there's nothing wrong with that? And then the market chooses the most efficient solution, but the charge determines, or in this case the ETS market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u14	Sure. We are talking about a regulated market. I myself know that regulation very well from the care. It certainly has good aspects. Nevertheless, it is good to consider, especially in this Chamber of reflection, whether a public value as important as climate can indeed be left to the market, or not. I'm curious about the government's vision on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u15	But it would be precisely your claim that mine is at least that the government ensures that there are so few rights that the price has to rise by itself? Because you need those rights, or you can't produce them. So you have to buy in a tight market. That was the problem. When the price was €5, there were just too many rights, so you could get them for free.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u16	Yes, and then there is no longer a free market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u17	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u18	There is a regulated market, which is under discussion here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u19	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. Then the price level. A fixed price level has been included in the bill, which reaches €31.90 per tonne of CO by 2030. In February, the ETS price was even €96 and now it is again around €60. Is the price level set out in the bill realistic? It has been discussed before today. What is the extent to which the Secretary of State for Finance considers that the legislative proposal, once adopted, will never actually lead to taxation? What, if that's a good chance, is the reason to adopt this law anyway? An amendment was adopted in the House of Representatives stating that the evaluation will be carried out after three years instead of five years. The question raised by the D66 Group as a result of the relatively low price in the current legislative proposal is whether the amounts included in the law can also be adjusted as a result of this review. And what thought or calculation rules for determining the new price level will then be followed? Free allowances are issued to prevent leakage of activities and thereby CO emissions to countries outside the EU. A motion was adopted on border taxation, the Grinwis/Van Weyenberg motion, to seek a situation in which the issue of these free allowances can be stopped. The present legislative proposal has now expired for some time. After all, the introduction would originally be 1 January 2020. Can the Minister indicate whether, in the meantime, in the last two years, international progress has been made on border taxation agreements? Can the government estimate when the free issuance of allowances can be stopped? Mr. Chairman. It will be clear to you that the D66 Group is in favour of any proposal that brings the climate targets closer and thus the proposal before us. Nevertheless, we look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u22	The point has just been raised by Mr Essers and I have also discussed it, namely that this minimum price applies only to electricity producers and not to industry, the other sector under ETS. Would the D66 Group encourage the cabinet to do the same, declare a minimum price for CO applicable to industry as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u23	If I'm well informed, that's also the government's plan. And if that is the case, further encouragement at the moment will not make any sense, but in principle we, as D66, are in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u24	I actually hear a bit in Mr van der Voort's speech that this price should rise, a bit towards Germany. Do I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u25	The price must indeed be such that it is also a meaningful price. Whether that's towards Germany, I'm not going over that, but at least it has to go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u26	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u27	Well, a little... I just heard words like "public value management." Then you have an idea about what's of value and how to translate it into prizes. Then I'll get to Germany. What about D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u28	We await the government's proposal, but the aim must be to achieve the climate targets as soon as possible. And then we will see what price is proposed for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u29	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mr Van Ballekom has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. In a previous debate, my group wished the Secretary of State every success in the coming years. The same wishes naturally go for the success of Minister Jetten in his present position. In view of the examination of the bill in the Lower House and the written examination of the proposal in this Chamber, in my group's view it would also have been sufficient to argue for a settlement without debate. However, while we are satisfied with each other, I would like to take this opportunity to put a few more questions to the rulers. The legislative proposal aims to ensure that companies producing electricity do so as clean as possible with as little CO emissions as possible. This requires investment. With a minimum price of around €30 per tonne in 2030, businesses will be given some security, as the government has laid down in the law. These are worthy objectives, Mr President. However, with the current ETS price, which I do not see falling so quickly, it is currently a tax that is not yielding anything, i.e. unnecessary in terms of revenue. I read that the disappointing income has been compensated, but I would like to put a question to the Secretary of State. Was this necessary, given the significantly higher revenues from ETS revenues flowing to the Dutch Emission Authority? Or am I just confusing two things? Of course you can. I would also like to put two additional questions to the Secretary of State in this context. At first instance, the CO emissions resulting from the use of biomass would not be included. Consequently, it appears that the tax does not apply to that. The reason is that there would be a double counting because of the LUCF regulation. How do you come up with such an abbreviation? But okay. This regulation was strengthened in January. Now there would be no double counting. Can the Secretary of State explain what emissions due to the use of biomass are and are not included? A second point of interest to my group is that there must be a level playing field for all parties. This is not such a problem within the Union, I believe, as long as the ETS remains above that €30 per tonne. External parties outside the EU will be subject to the CBAM, the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism. The latter has not yet been agreed. My question is whether there is still a level playing field if that CBAM is not there and when and if the ETS price falls below that €30. 'Cause then we'll have a problem, I guess. To speak in the words of one of my former bosses: it must not be the case that the world is getting warmer and the Netherlands is poorer. I would also like, with your permission, to put a few questions to the Minister. On several occasions in this house we talked about security of supply and the price of energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u31	I hear Mr Van Ballekom from the VVD about a level playing field and the Netherlands is not warmer and poorer. We're getting colder and poorer right now. But there is no level playing field at all. The main CO-extruding countries, such as China, US and India, are not participating in this system at all. In fact, do you create an uneven playing field for the Netherlands with this charge? How does Mr Van Ballekom see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u32	I've already reported that. That's what I see in the CBAM. When countries outside the EU produce products in a less responsible way, we can impose a levy on them in the European Union when they are imported. That's the whole idea of the CBAM. That is also what I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u33	Well, that makes sense. So we are going to impose import duties on other non-EU countries that do not comply with this. I understand that's your point of view. But how do you see the world has, of course, changed completely, even in recent weeks with the invasion of Ukraine, the consequences for energy policy, for energy supply in the Netherlands? You yourself voted in favour of the Coal Ban Act in electricity production. Even Commissioner Timmermans is already coming back to that. Is the VVD also willing to look at that again and is there a moving insight? I ask Mr Van Ballekom of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u34	Mr Otten regularly asks me questions which I will answer in the rest of my speech. So if he had any patience, I'd come to that and maybe I'd have been there already if he hadn't interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u35	I understand that I am an annoying interruption to Mr Van Ballekom's speech. Then we listen tensely to what Mr Van Ballekom has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u36	That's always advisable, Mr. Otten. On several occasions in this house we talked about security of supply and the price of energy. For both elements it is important to broaden the energy base and reduce energy dependence. All this is carefully monitored by the government, a terrible term by the way and a pernicious anglicism, but that aside. Because monitors don't solve a problem. In the current, until recently unimaginable events in Ukraine, this is, of course, in a completely different light. The Commission, through Mr Timmermans, has indicated to him, Mr Otten, that emergency legislation is breaking and that there may be longer dependence on fossil energy supplies. Now the questions come to the Minister. Does the Minister agree with the Dutch Commissioner? Does the Minister believe that Carbon Capture and Storage, or Carbon Capture and Utilisation, is a solution at current market prices for longer use of fossil energy without increasing CO emissions? Does the Minister agree that his predecessor, Mr Brinkhorst, is ultimately right that it is wise to build highly efficient coal power stations on the Maasvlakte and in the Eemshaven to broaden the energy base of the Netherlands? Does the Minister intend to link fossil energy production to CCS, as originally intended? In the end, does the Minister agree that it is not about how energy is produced but that it is about neutralising CO emissions within the framework of the climate agreements? And does the Minister have a wider range of possibilities, other than accelerating energy production via wind and sun? The latter is of course important, but there must also be a proper balance, as my group in this House has frequently advocated, between regulated and non-regulated energy. Mr President, the VVD looks forward to answering the questions with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u37	I will come back to Mr Van Ballekom. I've been beaten with stupidity. It is as if I belong to my own argument against the Coal Ban Act in electricity production. Then why did you, as a VVD, vote in favour of the closure of these coal plants a few years ago, I ask Mr Van Ballekom. Do you regret that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u38	I don't regret anything. And I'm not sorry I didn't listen to you before. The situation has changed. It is always the VVD Group that I have always argued from the outset about reducing CO emissions, without any taboo. This means that we are in favour of nuclear energy. This means that we are in favour of Carbon Capture Utilisation and Storage. Now, in these circumstances, the question is: can we make better use of these elements to keep our energy supply balanced and as cheap as possible and to broaden our base? Because we have to meet these climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u39	But we do not have a few new nuclear power stations tomorrow, certainly not at the rate at which the Netherlands makes these kinds of decisions. It may take 20 years for them to be operational. In the short term, therefore, we have a problem. The law that you have introduced on the need to shut down coal power stations is creating this problem. So we will have to do something about this in the short term, because we are going to have an energy shortage. How does the VVD intend to solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u40	Carbon Capture and Storage was already an option funded by the European Union years ago. The technique for this is available. It was not economically wise to do it at the time. This is now in a different light, because the ETS price is much and much higher. So it's wise to do it now. I think that technique can be applied quickly. In addition, I have also made this point in my speech, and we must of course continue to focus on increasing energy production through wind and sun. But, as has been said, there must be a balance between regulating and non-regulatory energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u41	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u42	Well, at least it's good to hear that the VVD no longer has taboos with regard to energy supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u43	There are few taboos in my party, and I want to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u44	It's been noted. Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to mention the terrible war in Ukraine. Our group condemns Putin's aggressive, unacceptable invasion of the sovereign state of Ukraine in the strongest possible terms. Our group therefore fully supports the attitude of the cabinet, although the approach of the Russian oligarchs, who are also financially present in the Netherlands, can, as far as we are concerned, be more decisive and faster, in order to further increase the pressure on Putin's cabal. If this requires urgent legislation, our group will be available to decide on it very quickly. This has happened many times in this House of First Chamber in the case of corona-wealth legislation. Mr. Chairman. The world before February 24th no longer exists. It is therefore high time for a wake-up call for Dutch politics. The sense of urgency of this new reality has not yet penetrated everyone, it seems. The Russian aggression of Putin and the worldwide necessary sanctions in response, are also a reality check for the Dutch climate ambitions. The climate-fata morgana of D66 and GroenLinks suddenly turns out to be an unrealistic nightmare, especially for the millions of people who have to finance these dreams through absurdly high energy bills. The Russian invasion comes at a very crucial moment in our energy transition, especially now that the Netherlands is in the middle of the transition phase and we've already thrown away our old shoes before our new shoes are finished. I still have the image on my retina of a cheerful minister Jetten for the Hemwegkolencentrale in Amsterdam, who was closed early in 2019. "We're taking him away!" Minister Jetten, then Chairman of the D66 Group. In 2019, the majority of this Upper House, also VVD and CDA, supported the Coal Ban Act in electricity production. This will require the early closure of a number of state-of-the-art, highly efficient and very clean coal power stations and the transition to tree sting, with the euphemism "biomass": capital destruction and industrial destruction. The Netherlands is closing down the most modern and cleanest coal plants in the world, while China is adding more than 500, while much less clean coal plants in other parts of the world simply remain in operation. The Netherlands also throws an ice cube in the Atlantic against global warming, bizarre symbolism at the expense of the Dutch tax and energy payer. We therefore call on the Minister for Climate to quickly wake up from his green dreams and to repeal or at least suspend the Act on the Prohibition of Coal from Electricity Production. We are considering a second-term motion on this point. Even Commissioner Timmermans, a sort of climate minister squared when it comes to ambitious climate plans, suggested this weekend that we can't do without coal power stations in today's new reality. How does Minister Jetten see this? That's our question. Of course, we are focusing on nuclear energy, but this is not going to happen because the Rutte Cabinets are drowning out. We can't wait for that anymore. It's taking too long, so we're gonna have to go ahead with coal and gas for a while. Mr. Chairman. As we pointed out in the debate with Prime Minister Rutte on the coalition agreement, the VVD Group in particular has considerable difficulty in integrating left-wing climate policy into the coalition agreement. As far as our group is concerned, the reduction of CO emissions can take place at a somewhat slower pace, and we are not going to go along with the alarming panic stories of the coalition, which lead to unfeasible and priceless plans. But I understand from the Minister that he no longer wants to hear the terms "unfeasible" and "unaffordable," I read recently in an interview in NRC Handelsblad. Mr. Chairman. Of course, you can fight CO emissions in a smarter way. I am therefore pleased to see that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats no longer has taboos in this area. I have just heard Mr Van Ballekom say that everything can be discussed if the objectives are achieved. As I said to Prime Minister Rutte recently, in the top ten of the largest CO pollutants, Tata Steel is number one at 5.7 million tonnes of CO per year. If the aim is to significantly reduce CO emissions, like this cabinet, then start closing down this particularly polluting company that also creates many other environmental problems. The question is whether Tata Steel is viable with all future CO taxes. The Indian shareholders have already tried to sell the company, but that did not work. One solution could therefore be to close Tata and use a few billion from the Climate Fund of EUR 35 billion to buy out Indian shareholders, make good redundancy arrangements for staff and clean up the area. Then we're going to build houses there. An estimated 50,000 to 80,000 homes can be built in a very good location in the Randstad, also by the sea; "Tatatown" I have already mentioned. There can be super fast connections with Amsterdam and Schiphol by pulling the North-South line along the North Sea canal, and you also solve the pressure on the Amsterdam housing market. At least such an approach will make sense if you want to reduce CO emissions. It solves a lot of environmental problems, solves the housing shortage and demonstrates vision and decisiveness. We would like to hear from the Minister how he thinks about this solution and whether we will soon be able to photograph him cheerfully for the smoking Hoogovens with the slogan: "We take them away, here comes Tatatown." Mr. Chairman. We are dealing with exploding energy prices, as other speakers have said. That increase was already going on before the Russian invasion of Ukraine. This is partly due to the high cost of the energy transition that is charged through the energy bills, which threatens to put millions of Dutch people in energy poverty. The predecessor of Minister Jetten, Mr Wiebes of the VVD, also decided rather impulsively to stop gas extraction in Groningen overnight, because the cabinet was unable to compensate the Groningen earthquake victims adequately, quickly and decisively. Since 1960, the Dutch State has earned around 420 billion euros in Groningen gas. Those are as many as 12 Jetten climate funds of 35 billion. But the compensation of the Groningers degenerate into an endless and embarrassing legal pull of the state with NAM shareholders Shell and Exxon. There are still hundreds of billions of euros of natural gas in the soil of Groningen, at current high prices perhaps even towards 1,000 billion. So let us start by using at least 10 billion from Minister Jetten's climate fund for the Groningen recovery fund, from which the damage caused by the Groningen earthquake victims can be quickly and decisively compensated. Then we resume the gas extraction in Groningen in a responsible manner. First of all, we are going to fill our gas storage, because 10 billion invest in gas storage and a gas roundabout, which now, if it is really necessary, is virtually empty, borders on malpractice. The Law on minimum CO-price electricity generation is indeed, as another speaker recalled this morning, as if you were imposing a maximum speed of 100 kilometers per hour on a hiker. That is senseless and unnecessary legislation on symbolism, and we do not see any point in doing so. We look forward to the reaction of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u46	Thank you, Mr Otten. Mr Van Apeldoorn has the floor, but not after I have given Mr Van Ballekom the opportunity to give a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u47	My interruptions are usually short and not so frequent, so I don't feel so addressed. Mr Otten attacks me and my party about being consistent and operating consistently. Have I understood him correctly that he thinks that the coal plants should be opened because 500 are being built in China and that Tata Steel should be closed to reduce CO emissions? Isn't it true that Tata Steel produces steel in a relatively highly responsible manner? Should we not be importing more steel which is produced in a more polluting way? Isn't it much wiser to bet on greening Tata Steel and maintaining employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u48	Mr Otten, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u49	I don't think so. You have invented, I say to Mr Van Ballekom, through the chairman, that these CO targets must be achieved. You yourself say: we do not care. Nothing's taboo. Those nuclear power plants of yours aren't here for a while, so we're gonna have to do something. Some of our coal plants are only five years old, have cost billions and must now close off the VVD. One of them is on the Maasvlakte and there are no people living there. The people in Wijk aan Zee have health problems because of Tata Steel. That is a structural problem. Apart from the CO, that is a very polluting company. No doubt pollution will move to other countries, but you want this policy and you want to get rid of it. Then I say: if you want us to slow it down, but the VVD has gone all the way along with the D66 mantra of climate-neutral.......................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u50	I still don't have an answer to my question. Is it not wiser to green Tata Steel and green other companies that emit CO in order to achieve the targets in the Netherlands? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u51	The question is whether this is feasible. If that all offers such a great perspective, I wonder why the shareholder wants to sell that company. Is it even financial to do with the CO levy? I can assure you that 5.7 million tonnes is a very high levy. There 50,000 to 80,000 houses can be built. Well, that's a difference, and that's money too. You have a win-win situation. The CO problem where you are going to get close is solved, because that is polluter number one, and you can build homes, because you also want to solve the housing shortage. What more do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u52	Thank you. In order to ensure that everyone can join their committee in time, I will now go to the next speaker. And that is Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State and the Minister to this Chamber. When it comes to the climate transition, these rulers have a very important mission. We wish them much wisdom in this. This cabinet likes to present itself as a climate cabinet and the focus on climate policy in the coalition agreement is indeed unprecedented, and rightly so. Even now that there is a war in Europe, which my group too is disgusting, and there are great concerns about the long-term consequences for our security, the climate crisis remains one of the greatest challenges of this century. However, the question is how to tackle this crisis. Unfortunately, the new government is taking the wrong turn as far as we are concerned, mainly by subsidising rather than praising and normalising, as my group chairman said during the debate on the declaration of government. I quote seven economists in an opinion article that appeared in NRC Handelsblad in January. "Coen nitrogen emissions are the cheapest and most effective way to solve the climate and nitrogen problem, but Rutte IV does not have to pay the polluters; they are paid, with many billions." Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, the polluter is still out of control. Large consumers in agriculture and industry pay far too little for their energy use.......................................................................................................................................................................................... Now that is the case. The enormous problem of energy poverty that has already been mentioned today is threatening to become even greater as a result of Putin's criminal war. I would like to endorse Mr Vendrik's appeal to the government on this point. It is now more than ever that we need to do the energy transition in a just way. But by allowing small consumers to pay much more in proportion than large consumers, we are doing the opposite. With this lack of climate justice, we are also undermining the basis for climate policy. Now we have here a bill, still from the Rutte III coalition agreement, to introduce a minimum CO price for electricity generation. You're thinking "minimum price," ha, we're going to price and not just subsidise. But what does it turn out to be? The proposed tax, as has often been said today, is 0.0 because of the much higher current and expected EU ETS price. When introduced, the minimum price for 2022 is not yet €15. The current ETS price is just above €60. Then what is this bill going to do, I ask the Minister. What is the point of laying such a low soil? Mr. Chairman. I am the last speaker in a very long line today and the umpteenth to ask critical questions about this bill. Part of it's the same. Repetition is therefore inevitable, but let the repetition above all encourage these rulers to give good answers in an attempt to convince us. We are not convinced yet. Mr. Chairman. Given that this bill leaves the polluter untouched and only introduces an ultra-low bottom price, where we are expected to fall in the years to come and perhaps never will, the questions are obvious. What are the negative consequences if this bill is not adopted? Can the Minister, and perhaps the Secretary of State, give a clear answer to that? In any case, it will not have any negative consequences for the Treasury. Which climate objective will then not be met or will be more difficult? I am really curious about the answers and also curious whether these rulers themselves believe in the usefulness of this bill. The explanatory statement comes with all kinds of justifications for this bill which my group cannot follow. It would provide an incentive for sustainability, but how, with this bottom price? How is it sustainable if the PBL also states that the reduction of CO emissions will be zero with this proposal? The Netherlands would take on a leading role in Europe today with the bill, but the question is: leader in what then? Copper in introducing a minimum CO price whose yield in terms of reduction of emissions is zero? Is that the lead position we want to take? Is this new Secretary of State for Finance really going to be pleased with a tax which does involve administrative costs, but whose revenue is nil? Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Minister to comment on how this bill relates to the plans of the new government. Is the government not going to do anything more about CO pricing? I said at the beginning of my speech that the new Rutte cabinet is going to distribute billions mainly to business in the context of the climate transition, rather than to standardize and praise it. Can he reflect on that? Or does he come up with new plans for the taxation of CO, including in the field of electricity generation in general? In any case, I do not read about it in the coalition agreement. This bill will be reviewed after three years. It would be five years first. Then this cabinet is once again ruled out. It's a missionary again. Should we wait for something substantial to happen? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be better to move completely away from the ETS system with its exceptions and free allowances. Instead, we could introduce a general flat carbon tax, preferably at European level, for all sectors. Then we are finally going to tax the great consumer effectively and actually make the polluter pay. So we can spare the small consumer at this time, where the energy bill for all households goes through the roof. The government says it wants to do a lot of work on the climate transition. That's a good thing. As far as I and my group are concerned, this first legislative proposal is a false start, even if it is a legacy of the Rutte III cabinet. In the meantime, I look forward to the answer. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for a break until 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u55	The next item is the continuation of the examination of legislative proposal 35216, the Law on minimum CO prices for electricity generation. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for the flexibility that I will be able to leave your Chamber a little earlier, so that I can join a debate in the House of Representatives on the Environment Council. I would like to thank the President and the Members for their warm welcome to this house. This is the first time I've been allowed to be here as a minister. I find that very special. I worked here in 2007, 2008 and 2009 as an intern-policy officer at the D66 Group. At that time I had never imagined that I would ever be allowed to visit this house in this position. As you know, the new cabinet has a very ambitious climate and energy agenda. I recently shared an overview of the legislative agenda for the coming years with the House of Representatives. That legislative overview contains no less than twelve pages. So I expect to be a guest of yours many times to defend the laws of this cabinet. I'm not doing that alone. In this cabinet, I am allowed to be the coordinating minister for climate. I myself am the sub-contractor in the field of energy. I have many colleagues in the cabinet, including Secretary of State Van Rij, who, together with me, are the green team that is going to implement the government's climate agenda. We do that in a very pleasant collaboration. Mr. Chairman. I intend to present a coherent climate and energy programme to both chambers in May, bringing together the existing climate agreement, the coalition agreement, but also ongoing programmes such as the Regional Energy Strategies into a coherent climate and energy programme. In the coming years, we will meet the ambition to reduce CO emissions by 55% to 60% by 2030. European climate policy Fit for 55 plays an important role in this. Due to recent developments with the terrible war in Ukraine due to Russian aggression, there is also the need to become, as Europe and the Netherlands, even faster independent in our energy supply. I hope to be able to show you more in the programme that I present to you in May about how we want to shape it in the years to come, with a combination of standardisation, pricing, facilitating transition and also subsidising and promoting tax in a number of areas. This is our motto: the Netherlands is going for green, and everyone must be able to come with us. Even today, a number of senators have discussed the importance of making the transition not only green, but also social. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the bill before us. During the debate in the Lower House on this measure only the State Secretary for Finance was present, then still on behalf of the former cabinet. Mr Van Rij and I have agreed that we will work very closely together on the coherence between my climate policy and the importance of fiscal greening. I am therefore pleased that we are already taking action together for the second time today in a debate on climate policy and its fiscal side. The former Secretary of State for Finance expressed some disappointment during the debate in the House of Representatives about the fact that we are only now discussing this bill. I would like to emphasise that. This bill has been in the Lower House for a very long time. This was partly due to fewer meeting days due to the corona measures in the Lower House, but also to the priority given by the Lower House to the examination of this bill at the time. Today, a number of you have also asked out loud whether this bill would not have been useful in drafting the Climate Agreement much earlier. I agree with those senators. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that you want to deal with this bill today. The aim of the minimum CO price for electricity production is to ensure that companies wishing to invest in renewable electricity production are competitive vis-à-vis companies producing non-renewable electricity. The aim is to provide an investment incentive for the scaling-up of green energy production. At the time that was really the starting point at the electricity table of the Climate Agreement. At the same time, the starting point was to ensure the security of supply. In the case of too high a minimum price, Dutch gas plants could possibly close down because they would not be able to compete sufficiently with electricity production across the border. As a result, there may also be insufficient energy and electricity available to meet Dutch demand at peak times. This balance has been sought in this legislative proposal: giving incentives for more investment in renewable energy generation while keeping a close eye on security of supply in the Netherlands. The price path of the minimum CO price was discussed in detail at the electricity table of the Climate Agreement and at the time also in discussions with the coalition at the time. I am very pleased that at that time this proposal was also supported by a very broad group of parties involved in the Climate Agreement. Not only the electricity producers themselves, but also NGOs that have participated extensively in these talks. Following the adoption of the Climate Agreement, the ETS price has increased by 2020, as many of you referred to today, at an unprecedented speed, to a level of almost €100. We are now seeing some fluctuations due to the war in Ukraine, but we have actually seen quite stable in recent months a very high price path towards that €100. It has now fallen to about €70, but that too is much more than we had foreseen at the time of the Climate Agreement. This high price level within the ETS, the European trading system for CO, is, of course, a strong incentive to make it more sustainable. So I think many of you with me welcome this higher ETS price from the need to make it more sustainable faster. Despite this increase, it is also important to introduce a minimum price for long-term security, as we cannot fully predict the evolution of the ETS price. We also saw at the start of the corona pandemic that the price can drop very quickly again. On the basis of the Grinwis amendment, which was widely supported in the House of Representatives, we will be evaluating this bill in three years' time, including to see if the price path is a good price path. Of course, this will be a broader review of the law, in line with that amendment. The Secretary of State and I have heard many of you ask the question today, and I will come back to a number of specific questions in a moment: whether the current ETS price still makes sense in this price path. On behalf of the Secretary of State, I would also like to say that, in anticipation of the three-year evaluation, we are also introducing an additional intermediate step. We also have to work under the coalition agreement to develop the CO pricing for the industrial sector, which is called a bottom price, but it is actually also a minimum price and the adjustment of the marginal CO levy for industry. These are two elements that we take into account in the development of the Climate and Energy programme. I would also like to say, on behalf of the Secretary of State, that if we are to develop the CO pricing for industry this year, we are to carry out a more detailed analysis of the price path contained in the proposal before us. We will then inform your Chamber and also the House of Representatives about this analysis and take into account the possible need for adjustments in the legislative proposals that we then make for the industry. I hope that this will do justice to a number of concerns expressed by your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u57	Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u58	That commitment is good, but it is difficult to understand what this means in concrete terms. The Minister talks about whether the price path is effective or not. It is said that in three years' time we will evaluate it, but it is also possible in the meantime. At least it is now being proposed to do it earlier, perhaps already this year. However, we can already establish now that we do not have to wait three years for this and one year that the current price path will not be effective at current and expected ETS prices? I think we can see that now. So in that respect, this government could also decide to repeal this law and come up with a new bill with a more realistic price path. It could be. If that review is to take place in the course of the year, what could be the outcome of that and how does it relate to this bill, should it be adopted by this Chamber? Is there going to be an amendment to the passed law? Because the price path, which we almost all think is too low and therefore not effective, is simply in the current legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u59	Some elements. Firstly, the question of when this bill will be effective. I do not think that is until the legislative proposal actually generates tax revenue. It is of course nice when you come to that point at some point and you can invest that money back in a faster sustainability. But if you look at the agreements made at the time under the Climate Agreement, then this bill is also intended to give long-term security to the electricity production market. I believe that, from a reliable government that challenged the sector at the time under the Climate Agreement, we now have a duty, as a cabinet, to work out a part of the Climate Agreement and to submit this bill to your Chamber, together with NGOs. I think it is effective because it lays a bottom in a CO-market price that is indeed high, but also volatile. I do not see, like you, a situation where the price is falling completely again and comes to the price path that we had devised for this year, but this bill does provide a certain degree of certainty for investors in the scaling-up of renewable energy production. Then there is your second point. What is this commitment? We are, therefore, working very rapidly on all the fiscal greenings laid down in the coalition agreement under the climate and energy programme. This is not just about carbon pricing in the industrial sector, but also about adjustments in energy taxes that will provide better incentives for sustainability. We are therefore prepared to carry out a more detailed analysis of the price path in anticipation of the broad legislative assessment. You ask me: what can be the consequence of that? I would then draw on an analysis that we still have to carry out, but you can imagine that there will be some recommendations on how far that price path is still appropriate to current prices, and in line with the Fit for 55 package, that we are negotiating around the same time. Completely in line with how we like to debate with the Second and First Chambers, on the basis of this analysis, I would like to give you the room again to provide us with your insights, so that we can take them with us in the further legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u60	I would like to continue on both points. Again, as far as the latter is concerned, I think it is already clear that this price path is not appropriate. I want to say it again. If the conclusion in a year's time is that the price path is not appropriate, then there will have to be a legislative change, otherwise we will still be stuck with the current, far too low price path. If the Minister could clarify this a little bit more, that would be good. Let me now turn to the first point. On the basis of the current legislative proposal and price path, I do not understand the point of that incentive for sustainability and the investment security it would offer. It is therefore a question of providing security to the electricity companies that want to green up against the competition that does not want to. At least you have a minimum CO price and on that basis you can make your investment plans. Then you know how much competition that doesn't pay at least for the CO price. But that only applies if there is a chance at all that the market price will be close to that minimum price. Since that is not the case now, I do not see how this sustainability incentive can be achieved. That's theoretical. This is not the case with the current price path.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u61	On the first point: it is true that it requires a legislative change, you want to change the price path in the future. That was Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. However, as I said earlier, we will have to come up with new legislative proposals to adapt the carbon pricing in the industrial sector. I think that any amendments to the proposal before us could be very logical in terms of these legislative proposals. So: yes, it has to be changed by law, but I think it can be done in a reasonably clear way. The further analysis that we are therefore prepared to carry out can also help to achieve this at a good pace. Then there is the question of what certainty the minimum price path, as contained in the legislative proposal, offers. Actually, you've seen that since the conclusion of the Climate Agreement. Indeed, you give an advantage to renewable energy producers over non-renewable energy products that have a fixed cost level due to the minimum price. The market has already anticipated this in recent years, just as the market anticipates the evolution of the ETS price. The market also anticipates proposals from the European Commission to adapt the entire ETS trading system. I therefore still believe that this legislative proposal can be justified by the long-term security that we have offered to the market. Yes, it would have been good if the bill had been dealt with more quickly after publication in the House of Representatives and we could have had this debate with you some time ago, but I would think it really unwise not to introduce this framework law now, so that we can improve it further in the future, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u62	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u63	Yeah, if it had been a framework law, maybe that price path wouldn't have been in it. That would have been better, but unfortunately it's in there. I think we already know that the price path is not appropriate and that the minimum price is far too low. We already know what's going to come out of the evaluation. Then maybe there'll be a change of law. I welcome that in itself, not of that. But then I would say: you can also withdraw the current bill, speed up the process and come up with a better bill, with a better and appropriate price path.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u64	I believe that in recent years we have not done anything more in the area of climate and energy policy, because we hoped that the better plan would be available in the vicinity. And we just don't have that luxury anymore. Some of you have quite rightly considered the latest IPCC reports and the huge backlog we are lagging behind in limiting global warming to 1.5 °C. My attitude as Minister for Climate and Energy in these three years will at least be to actually work out and offer as many of the legislative proposals for subsidies, support and so on as possible to your Chambers, because we do not have the luxury of waiting for that perfect plan. We will also just have to put our hands up and get to work. If we then gradually discover that it can be even better and sharper, then we will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u65	My question is about industry and the bottom price. I read the coalition agreement in such a way that the European soil prize is a cabinet's intention to place it on the European table. But now I hear something else. Maybe I'm confused, but that's why I'm asking for clarification. I hear the Minister say that we are coming up with a proposal for a minimum CO price for industry. Do I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u66	There are two elements for industry in the coalition agreement. It is about tightening up the marginal tax on CO pricing and a bottom price; that is the other proposal. It is true that Mr Vendrik is right to point out to me that we will first try to achieve this at European level. Mr Vendrik himself referred to the German coalition agreement, which actually contains the same thing. They will also make a first effort to fight a minimum price for industry at European level. If this is not possible, the German Government, like the Dutch, is prepared to introduce it nationally. Negotiations on Fit for 55 and tightening up the ETS system are under way. I have been there several times in recent weeks at various Councils and have also had bilateral talks with Germany, Belgium and France to see how we can work together with like-minded countries as much as possible, first of all at the European negotiating table. But the Secretary of State and I are also in the process of seeking very intensive coordination with the German Government in order, should we take national measures, to combine them as much as possible. It is therefore two proposals for industry, which may come together in time, but perhaps not. That depends on the progress we are making at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u67	Look, I get that marginal tax. That's a Dutch adventure. The cabinet itself can make a decision in that regard. That's clear. Let's talk about the bottom price. The cabinet goes to Europe together with the Germans in the framework of Fit for 55. That's the main route. Then the cabinet will decide to introduce a national bottom price for industry, which is actually a minimum CO price for industry. So what's the timetable like? How long can this European adventure last? When will the hour come for you, the moment the cabinet says: now we decide to activate the national road and come up with a bill for a national CO minimum price for industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u68	Under the French Presidency, the ambition at present is to complete the negotiations for Fit for 55 for the most part during this six months. The French President has, among other things, the ambition to complete the CBAM, the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, which has also been mentioned by a number of you, this six months. This is very closely linked to the ETS. If that does not work during the French Presidency, almost all the other Member States are keen to see that you are in the Council of Ministers in order to come to a conclusion later this year. Everyone feels that Fit for 55 is essential if we want to get close to the 2030 target, but also to speed up the reduction of Russia's dependence. The end of this year is therefore also the commitment of the Dutch Government. We do so bilaterally and we do so to the European Commission. We are also doing this by being present on a massive scale at all the rounds of negotiations that are taking place on this subject. If it turns out that it has been completed later this year, we can assess whether it is sufficient. If it is not enough, we will soon come up with additional proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u69	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u70	"CBAM" is also such an anglicism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u71	I often call it the 'CO border levy'. Maybe that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u72	Sure. Do I understand that this is the year to try the European and then the mind is made up? Two things come together at the beginning of 2023. It is quite likely that the cabinet will not get that European support as soon as possible, I fear, but we are going to see it at the beginning of 2023 working on a national bill for a minimum CO price for industry. This coincides, as it were, with the evaluation which the Minister has just said about the price path of this minimum CO price. Is it already stipulated that it should be the same price for industry and electricity or is everything open? Or are we heading for Germany yet? That country has just one price for everything, namely €60. What are the thoughts on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u73	I think it was Mr Van der Voort who said: in the end, you want every sector to achieve its CO targets. We have translated concrete megatons into the industrial sector and electricity production. So I would really like to take that into account when asking what a sensible price path is to bring those goals closer. This may be the same price, but it can also be different prices. I don't have a strong preference for that right now. I just really want to map out what is effective in achieving our climate goals. I also agree with a number of senators who said that, of course, it is most effective if we guarantee the level playing field in North-West Europe as much as possible. Hence my many visits to Berlin, Brussels and Paris to see if I can convince my fellow climate and fiscal ministers to take this kind of national action together with a leading group, if necessary, to maximise the impact on climate gains throughout the Northwest European region.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u74	I was very impressed by the climate paragraph in the coalition agreement. There was real ambition and concern. Nevertheless, I can see a huge distance between the climate objectives that you have set and the law that is now before me. I don't quite understand. That minimum tax is not going to make any difference. You don't have to be a great economist to see that. It's just way too little. This isn't gonna work. You referred to the argument of the flexibility of the ETS tariffs. Well, that wasn't so bad in the last year and a half. It was mainly the period after and the period now. That difference of €30 or even a little more between €96 and €60 simply has to do with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It's not much more complicated than that. I was gonna give it to you anyway. I am pleased that you have said that you are going to devote some kind of mid-term evaluation in the near future. I'm just saying it in my own words. I think it would be nice if you could share with us the parameters that will form part of that mid-term evaluation in the short term. That's not about the evaluation itself, it's about the parameters. We have to vote on this bill next week. I have already noticed that there is a strong consensus that this minimum tax is not really going to work. Maybe that's why it's also in your own interest to indicate in a note that doesn't have to be any more than one page of the....................................................................................................................................................................................... Then we can take that into consideration. Then there is my third and final point. A study of ING's long-term ETS tariffs has just been published this week. They believe that in the long term the level of current prices will remain more or less the same and that there will be no major disruption. I would also like to give that to you, because that is a bit contrary to the supposed size of the effectiveness of the bill. That's definitely not gonna make a difference. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u75	It is that the Minister will have to leave soon, otherwise I would not have allowed this third term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u76	Mr Ester asks if we can send you a short letter before the votes. I think that should be possible. So we're gonna take care of that. Then I hope that will help you to consider the votes next week. As far as your first point is concerned, I have to be very honest. Of course, I would have liked to have been here as Minister for Climate and Energy with all kinds of other proposals arising from the coalition agreement and the climate and energy programme. That was not given to me, but I am very glad that we can warm up a bit. As I have just said, my introduction of twelve pages concerns the overview of the legislative agenda. So I hope I won't disappoint you. In the coming years, we will deal with a lot of legislative proposals that have a greater impact on achieving our climate ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u77	We'll keep you sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u78	Thank you. I like that very much. We'll send that letter to you in a week, Mr. Chairman. We often work with cubes in the Lower House these days. My first block of response was about the bill and the price path. I think I have now answered most of that thanks to these interruptions. I'm just gonna make sure I forgot something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u79	We work here with substantive topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u80	Yeah, that's better, substantive issues. I always thought it was a very strange word when I was a Member of Parliament. Mr Ester also asked whether the price path should go hand in hand with developments in the ETS price. However, it has been deliberately chosen to introduce a fixed price path into this bill in order to provide certainty for investment decisions that companies often have to take many years in advance. It was at that time the request of both the electricity sector and the industrial sector in the drafting of the Climate Agreement and everything that came after that to introduce some degree of predictability into that minimum price. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to finish very briefly the questions I still have on this subject of substance. Perhaps I have answered the question that Mrs Prast wants to ask. Mr Vendrik and a number of others asked about the German coalition agreement. In the first instance, Germany also advocates a European minimum price. We are now looking at how we can work together in the negotiations for Fit for 55. The Dutch and German Governments are already exchanging ideas about what is in both coalition agreements. So not only fiscal greening, but also, for example, legislation on hydrogen scaling. How can we even that as much as possible, so that we really give that market the chance to switch to similar legislation and certification very quickly? I have now had everything I wanted to answer in this section, Mr President. I would now like to zoom in a little bit more on the broader climate policy and the importance of rapid CO reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u81	Mrs Prast has an interruption for you on behalf of the Party for Animals Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u82	You never know if it's gonna happen or not. So I'm asking the question now. If it's still coming, it'll come later. I had asked about the reaction of the cabinet to the opinion of the Advisory Board on Regulatory Pressure Review. Maybe you will, but at least that's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u83	The Secretary of State will respond shortly to a number of questions related to this question, but also to the implementation by the Dutch Emmission Authority. Mr. Chairman. A number of members of your Chamber have asked me about the reflection of this cabinet on the latest IPCC report and the enormous urgency to speed up climate policy. The latest IPCC report on the effects of climate change and adaptation has made it very clear that we are absolutely not on course to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees and that the effects that this creates and are already going on can have disastrous consequences. We saw this in our own country last summer, but certainly also in our neighbouring countries Belgium and Germany, with the extreme weather that has led to devastating floods. But also in other parts of the world we see huge periods of drought, shortage of drinking water, refugee flows that result, a huge loss of biodiversity, and so on. The cabinet will soon publish a comprehensive response to both IPCC reports, i.e. both on the mitigation part and on the adaptation part. On behalf of a number of colleagues, I will also address in detail our commitment to the UN Climate Change Conference which will take place in Egypt at the end of this year. Mr Ester asked me a number of questions about the conclusions of the Frontier Economics report, which was used in the drafting of this bill at the time. The conclusion was that a price path above the expectations of ETS prices leads to risks to security of supply. Actually, that's still true. Of course, the level of the price path in relation to the ETS has some relevance. However, in the light, for example, of the rapid phasing out of nuclear power stations and coal plants in other countries, of the enormous volatility in the gas market and of the problem of producing electricity via gas, we are seeing that in this open European market you are very quickly having effects across borders. So it remains, I think, with all the measures that we take and always consider it very important to take that into account. As far as I am aware, Frontier Economics has not made a recent assessment of the evolution of these ETS prices, not even on the latest "Fit for 55" proposals. However, I have already promised the House of Representatives that once the negotiations on Fit for 55 have been completed, the Cabinet will carry out a more detailed analysis of the impact of that overall package on what I call the financial burden of climate policy in the Netherlands, both for households and for business. I think your questions will certainly come back to that. The Planning Office for the Environment has not granted a reduction to this measure. A number of you have referred to this. That's right. That is not directly attributable to this measure. However, the PBL agrees that a minimum CO price, both for electricity production and for industry, offers certainty to investors. That's because there's just minimal costs to be taken into account in investment decisions made by companies. By doing so, it can contribute to the earlier investment in low-CO techniques. We actually see the CO-profit that is achieved in this way in other measures contained in the PBL analyses. I would also like to mention a number of other measures that apply to the electricity sector, such as the Coal Ban Act, the SDE++ grants, which help to improve the sustainability of electricity production and, of course, the EU ETS, which also aims to make it more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u84	I hear you calling the Coal Ban Act. Now the downside of those cubes is that the minister can always say that it was in his previous block or that it's still in his next block. That's why I'm not much of a supporter of those cubes. 'Cause you never get an answer. I have also said a few things about the Coal Ban Act. Commissioner Timmermans also said that we cannot get rid of coal power stations now. Is the minister still going to come up with that? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u85	I can answer it right now; that might be useful. I've also learned to work with cubes when I'm visiting this house. Mr Ballekom and Mr Otten have asked me about coal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u86	From Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u87	From Ballekom. At the moment, coal production in the Netherlands still plays an important role in the energy mix. We have agreed to reduce coal production further in the coming years. That is what we are doing with a legal ban on coal production by 2030 and in the coming years a production restriction that is necessary to meet the objectives of Urgenda. As you know, the previous cabinet opened up a subsidy scheme for the voluntary closure of a coal power station. In the longer term, we will have to strive for a good mix between the renewable energy sources wind and sun that really can meet our energy needs to a very large extent and which today can produce electricity at a very low cost. I agree with everyone who has said today: you will also have to use adjustable power in that mix. In the coalition agreement, we have made a number of agreements on this subject, which we will also be implementing and working out in the near future. This is firstly to keep the Borssele nuclear power plant more open and to engage with market players to see if there is room in the Netherlands for two additional nuclear power stations. That is not an easily adjustable power, but it gives some stability in that energy mix. In addition, in the coming years we will see whether we can make gas plants, in combination with CO-saving measures, a good part of that energy mix. I would also mention the accelerated scaling up of hydrogen and the use of hydrogen in electricity production, the use of CCS with storage under the North Sea and also the import of more green gas and hydrogen to find a very good balance in this energy mix in the years to come. TenneT has carried out a comprehensive analysis of the security of supply on behalf of the previous cabinet and has found that this security of supply is not at risk in the short term and in the medium term, but I do understand the question of a number of members of this house whether the current situation in Ukraine and Russia and the developments in the energy market lead to further considerations. I will send a comprehensive letter to the House of Representatives next week, but I will ensure that it is also sent to this Chamber. In it, I will elaborate on our preparations for the coming winter. How do we ensure that security of supply is also guaranteed in the upcoming winter? This afternoon, I think about now, the European Commission is presenting a package of measures to speed up the reduction of Russian dependence in the coming years. Mr Timmermans has already said a few things about this. I will therefore come forward with an analysis within a week of how this European package can be translated into the Dutch situation. As far as I am concerned, there are no taboos, but I have made it clear before that, for example, the use of Groningen production is really the very last resort that we want to consider as a cabinet, and certainly not to reduce the price. It can therefore only be achieved in a situation of extreme long-term crisis in which security of supply is at risk. The question of whether the reduction in production to 35% in the coal power stations is sensible in the light of this security of supply question is just one of the considerations that we will have to make in the coming weeks for the coming winter and the following years, in which we want to speed up the reduction of Russia's dependence. It's a bit of a long answer, Mr. Chairman. I apologise, but I hope I have answered the questions of the Nanninga Group, the VVD Group and the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u88	When I hear the minister talk like that, I think: did the new reality get through to him? Putin even threatened to shut down the gas tap this afternoon. So we're in a completely different world in which these plans and this beautiful weather planning were conceived. Build two nuclear power stations, I hear the Minister say. Then I ask the Minister when he thinks that if he gives extra gas there, then gas on the nuclear power stations is not electricity coming from those nuclear power stations. Then we're at least ten years away, optimistic. We are now in a very different situation in the short term. I still miss the sense of urgency to do something about it quickly. Those coal plants are state-of-the-art. These were built at the time at the request of your party colleague Brinkhorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u89	Thank you, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u90	We have to do something now. So I'm missing the urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u91	A brief word on nuclear energy. Mr Otten is right, it will take some time to develop nuclear power plants, but I will shortly, together with the Secretary of State for Nuclear Safety, present proposals for Borssele and, later this spring, outline how we will organise the process towards possible new nuclear power plants. Then on the matter of urgency. Let me be very clear about that. I am very concerned about developments in the international gas and electricity market. There's actually not a minute I'm not doing that. I have to restrain myself from taking the latest developments every minute during this debate either. Together with a number of colleagues in the cabinet and excellent people in the various departments, we are also constantly working on this. Over the last few months, it has been, among other things, the fraction of the PVV that went into it extensively already saw a very high energy price in the Netherlands that has hit consumers, but also companies very hard. But we haven't seen the beginning of this crisis. That gas market and that electricity market are not going to recover in the coming weeks and months. That price remains high for a long time. This means that in the medium term, towards the coming winter, we have a very large task as a Dutch cabinet, but also together with the European Union, to prepare for the coming winter, where we need to have sufficient stock to get through that winter and to fight the security of gas supply for at least the protected users, households, hospitals. That's not an easy job. That's what we're really pulling out of the closet to do it right. So next week I can give you more detailed information on what we are going to do there. Finally. We will really need a few years to be able to switch from the dependence that we still have on Russia. That is still reasonable for the Netherlands to see. 20% dependence on Russian gas, about half of Russian uranium. They've been asked about it before. As far as oil is concerned, we are also seeing Shell's messages today. This also plays an important role. If Russian exports were to disappear overnight, this would have a huge impact not only on the Dutch economy. There are a number of other EU Member States that have a much greater degree of dependence on Russia. So we really need a few years to switch in a responsible way. That means accelerating the climate and energy ambitions we have. Then you may not agree with the climate targets that we link to them, but we hope that we can find each other in the interest of becoming energy independent as Europe and the Netherlands. I hope that Mr Otten will also be able to support the proposals we are going to make in this area in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u92	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u93	I do not think this is possible without keeping the coal-fired power plants in operation for longer, but well. Did I just hear an enlightenment? Did I hear the Minister say that there's a second nuclear power plant in Borssele, that he's gonna start with that? Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u94	No, let me clarify that. We would like to keep the Borssele nuclear power plant open longer. This calls for a number of measures. Soon the Secretary of State of IenW and I will inform the House of Representatives about what is needed for this. We are also starting the process this spring to see how and where we can possibly add two additional nuclear power plants to the energy mix. But Borssele is one of the locations under the law where that could be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u95	Yeah, I also think it's a lot smarter to put two next to each other. That's what they do when they're abroad. My question was: when, if we start with that now, does energy come out at the earliest?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u96	That was your fourth question, so now I am going to Mr Berkhout.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u97	Mr President, I thought I had just answered it, because I had said to Mr Otten that the construction of new nuclear power stations would simply take a number of years. We see in other EU Member States that you are so ten years ahead of power coming out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u98	Thank you. Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u99	I think I read that Mr Jetten once said that he cannot imagine how to provide energy to households with nuclear energy. Can I conclude from this that he can see that by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u100	I'm actually really glad that I get this question now, because I see that clip coming along a lot, also on social media. I regret that I did not give a more detailed answer at the time, then as a Member of Parliament. The discussion in the Chamber was about the enormous task of getting houses off the Groningen gas. This can be done with heat networks, that can be done with hybrid heat pumps, that can be done with electrification. I actually meant to say, let's say, you're going to 100% electric heating of houses. Then that could be electricity coming from a nuclear power plant; I understand that concept. But I thought that in this Chamber debate it was very easy to do: hang on to a nuclear power plant, then it is resolved. Because if you go to 100% electric, then you also have to be very rigorous about a house, with better insulation, adjustment of radiators, et cetera, et cetera. In fact, I was trying to say at the time: it is less easy than just adding a nuclear power plant. So thank you for this question. Mr. Chairman. In view of the security of supply that I had arrived at thanks to Mr Otten, I already indicated that a little 20% of the Dutch gas is now Russian gas. Many parties, political parties but also, for example, the Dutch Association for Renewable Energy, have recently made proposals on how we can speed up the phasing-out. I am taking all this into account in next week's cabinet proposals. I very much agree with all the Members of your Chamber who have said today: look not only at diversifying our supply chain; our imports from Russia can be replaced by imports from Algeria, the Middle East, the US, you name it. We must do that, but we must also ensure that renewable energy is converted and, above all, energy savings. Over the past few years we have known what was called the tonne-hunt in the Netherlands; I thought it was a wonderful term from Mr Wiebes, but that was also because the Netherlands was very behind in the CO reduction. The pure focus on tonne yacht was really needed to recover a leg as the Netherlands. But we are now on the verge of setting a target for energy saving, in addition to CO reduction, because it is simply the best way to reduce costs, reduce dependence and thus accelerate the greening of our entire energy system. So we also support proposals from the European Commission in this area. Together with, among others, the Minister for Housing, we will also make proposals in the May Climate and Energy programme to accelerate this energy saving in the Netherlands even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u101	Can I therefore assume that the Minister for Economic Affairs is going to the Dutch industry on a campaign? Because one of the amazing data is that even in large consumers there is still an incredible amount to be saved, much more so than in households. That's where it has to be, to protect the wallet. I haven't heard the Minister say it yet, but I'm assuming that the campaign is part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u102	Yeah, sure. Among other things, Mr Crone had asked me to do so. In fact, in the coalition agreement with which we are allowed to work, the previous cabinet has already done so in the Millions Note "to strengthen and strengthen the energy saving obligation for business, but also to make additional money available for its implementation and compliance, so that companies are actually visited. My experience with discussions I have had with companies about this is that they really want to do so, and so it is nice to have someone come by to advise them on how they can comply with this energy saving obligation. In the light of the reduction in Russia's dependence, I will also look with the Minister for Economic Affairs at how we can do this for those companies which are not yet covered by the energy saving obligation. How can we talk to these companies? How can they accelerate sustainability and isolate? Among other things, in the plans of the NVDE, the Dutch Association for Renewable Energy, I think it has been mapped out very well that the energy-intensive companies have the potential to achieve an enormous reduction in gas and also an additional CO savings if we better isolate the industrial installations. That's relatively low-hanging fruit. I would like to see how we can help these companies to take these energy-saving measures in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u103	That is all in the Minister's letter next week, and it will be sent to us as well. That's all good. My other question is this. I assume the Minister is done with the IPCC report. Is there gonna be an appreciation of the cabinet there later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u104	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u105	I came to the conclusion, also following the International Energy Agency's report on climate last spring, that I did last year in another debate, not with this cabinet, that there is really only one conclusion, especially after Glasgow: every new fossil project is too much. Is that also the cabinet line?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u106	The previous cabinet signed the statement in Glasgow. This year we will come up with an impact on the Dutch situation. As promised to the House of Representatives, we will work together with at least Belgium and Germany to ensure that together we take the step towards the implementation of Glasgow's agreements. Here too, we are creating a level playing field and giving the fossil industry in Northwest Europe the same incentive. So this too is being arrested and worked out by the cabinet this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u107	Finally, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u108	I would think: let me encourage the Minister to take this into his head when he writes his letter next week. Because Glasgow, IPCC, IEA and Putin's war are all moving in the same direction: accelerating sustainability, saving and stopping fossil, now. Not tomorrow, but now. Really. The carbon budget that still belongs to that 1.5 degree has already been financed globally. That's what the IEA said last year. I can testify to it from the financial sector. All reports indicate that. Every new funding for each new project that brings with it new emissions is no longer possible. Nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u109	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u110	Not even in the Netherlands. So I want the government to say that that is the serious translation of Glasgow and that that is the serious response of the Dutch government to last year's IEA report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u111	My answer is that we are going to ensure that we reduce this as quickly as possible in a responsible manner. Meanwhile, climate policy and the climate fund will maximise investment and support in the accelerated shift towards the sustainable alternatives that are available, which are often cheaper and are also much better for Dutch competitiveness. I would therefore like to challenge Mr Vendrik to wait until we come to the implementation of the climate and energy programme in May. In it we take this, and also the analyses of, among other things, the IEA. But I would also like to do justice to the request of the House of Representatives, among other things, to do so as far as possible with neighbouring countries for the level playing field in North-West Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u112	I support everything that needs to be done in the area of renewable energy. Everyone knows that for a long time; that is what you say. But I kind of miss the emotion and urgency that people can turn off lights right now. That sounds simple; you call the industry and that is about big numbers when many do it together. But in the oil crisis, some of us, of our age, have experienced that, others have not created an atmosphere of: join in. I think it's crazy that the cabinet doesn't express that urgency. Prime Minister Rutte should do that and, of course, so should you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u113	I feel that urgency completely. A very important part of the commitment we will be presenting next week is: join in. But I also believe that as a government, we have a duty to provide an opportunity for action. What can people do? What can people do that might be in a rental house and can't work on their own to speed up their house's sustainability? I think that's the duty that belongs to the government. I would also like to stress that we have sufficient gas resources in the Netherlands to make it through this winter season. I want to prevent us from organising an unnecessary panic in the very short term. I want to do it responsibly towards the coming winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u114	Mr Crone another supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u115	Yes. It's an emotional point. People will see...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u116	Mr Crone, what is your supplementary question? We're running a little out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u117	Mr President, I see people asking a question four times in a row here, and I am not even allowed to do a run-in? I'll sit down if you want me to sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u118	I'm asking what your question is. Calm down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u119	The cabinet creates an atmosphere that KLM can fly on short distances while that is not a policy. Companies are allowed to continue without saving energy. The urgency lies on a human level. Your heart is in the right place, but people don't just want long-term plans. What can they do now? I don't hear the cabinet about that at all, I really don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u120	I don't hear a question, but let the Minister give his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u121	I see it as an incentive to do what we already do even better. There are various public campaigns to point out to people what their own perspective of action is, where you can apply for isolation subsidies and so on. However, I say to Mr Crone that the enormous urgency of the climate approach, as well as the crisis in Russia, must be taken into account in order to make it even more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u122	I'll take a look at your own agenda. You're making some ends meet, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u123	I'm almost done. Mr Vendrik asked me about a maximum price for gas. While I am standing here, the European Commission is presenting a package of proposals. I've heard signals that there's price maximization in that too. I'm going to judge it quietly over the next few days, but my counter question would be: eventually, someone will have to pay it somewhere. I am very curious how the Commission takes this into account in their proposals. I will respond to that in next week's letter. As I have just said, it is not necessary at the moment to declare an acute gas crisis, but we are fully prepared for the moment when it is. With the Gas Protection and Recovery Plan, we can temporarily disable protected users if necessary to always supply protected users with gas. Then I'll come to the last few loose questions I have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u124	I have a question about maximum gas prices. The Minister for Finance said that the increase in energy prices would not result in higher excise revenue. That seems to me to be arithmetically wrong, because if the price goes up, the excise duty goes up as a percentage. If those extra billions come in because of that price increase, there's enough room to do something about it, right? That increase can be returned without delay, because it has no impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u125	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u126	I do not know the Minister's statement, but the price of energy has risen tremendously. This is also the answer to a number of other questions. Sometimes people are already in acute trouble because they really can't afford it. There are also people who turn off the heating completely because they are afraid of the energy bill that comes differently. As a cabinet, we are very interested in this. We have indicated that in the coming weeks we will look very closely at the impact of this energy crisis on inflation and on purchasing power. I think it's my duty to see how you can effectively assist the most affected. In the autumn of last year, the energy tax was used to compensate all households by means of a separate legislative proposal and to grant an additional concession to minimums through municipalities. The question is: is that the best way to reach the hardest hit, or can it be done in other, smarter ways? That is what we need to do in the near future: look carefully at how energy prices, inflation and purchasing power are developing and then consider whether we should take additional measures in the spring paper as a cabinet. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u127	I think that the Minister once again does not recognise the urgency at all. There are now many people in trouble with huge energy bills; people who are not used to applying for benefits from the municipality at all. It needs generic solutions. That's what they do when they're abroad. That cannot be allowed to delay either, because prices have doubled, tripled or worse for some people. In addition to the already heavy inflation, this simply gives rise to huge purchasing power problems in the very short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u128	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u129	So my question is: can all this not be dealt with more decisively and more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u130	I think it would be wise to look at it as an integral part of the Spring Note. Then we have a good idea of the development of purchasing power and we can come up with a coherent package at once. Perhaps today's proposals from the European Commission could help in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u131	Finally, Mr President. I heard someone say yesterday: the bailiff isn't waiting for the spring note either. I think that's true. There really needs to be more urgency on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u132	In that light, a very brief answer from my side. Yesterday I invited all the energy companies in the Netherlands to talk to myself and Carola Schouten, the Minister for Poverty Control. We have had a very intense conversation with energy companies to prevent people from being cut off from energy or gas in this situation. We have also talked to the energy companies about how much better they can inform housing corporations and municipalities than they already do if they see potential problems in households, so that we can also focus on helping those households. SZW's colleagues will work this out in the coming weeks with municipalities, housing corporations and energy companies. Finally, three brief questions. Mr Vendrik asked me whether I can confirm whether we are taking a lot of uranium from Russia. At present, 20% of the uranium comes from Russia on the European market. The remainder comes from countries such as Nigeria, Kazakhstan, Canada, Australia and Namibia. When we talk about Russia's independence, it is not just about gas, but also about oil, uranium and coal. It also concerns a number of other minerals and raw materials that are important in making chips, among other things. I was very pleased to hear from Mrs Prast about the electricity grid. Before this Ukraine war broke out, I thought, when I finished my deployment program, that I had one headache file: the grid capacity. Now I have another headache file, but the grid capacity can become a huge inhibiting factor on the sustainability ambitions we have. We are taking a number of measures to this end, including strengthening network operators, speeding up licensing procedures and better identifying the main energy infrastructure that we need in the coming decades. If you take a map of the grid capacity in the Netherlands now, you can see that almost the whole of the Netherlands is red. So that task is huge. Yesterday I was visiting Enexis, a beautiful training institute, where they themselves train the mechanics of the future, in order to at least improve the labour market side of the network operators. Finally, Mr Van Ballekom asked me about biomass. This theme also lives strongly in the Netherlands. With a number of like-minded countries in the "Fit for 55" negotiations, I am heavily committed to tightening up the European guidelines for the use of biomass. Bioraw materials in the broad sense are going to play a very important role in the economy of the future, but one must use the bioraw materials in a sensible way. At the moment, it is true that, according to international agreements, CO emissions from the combustion of biomaterials are not included in the climate targets, in the sense that it is compensated for by the planting of trees and plants elsewhere in the world, but we have also seen examples where those plantings go a lot less well than was promised in advance. So there is still an investigation commissioned by EZK into, among other things, the situation in Estonia. I expect to get the results before the summer. The amendment of the LULUCF Regulation, the land use regulation in Europe, critically examines how these bio-raw materials can be better placed. The Dutch government does not think it is sharp enough yet. It is our commitment to further improve that. In my view, I came to the end of the answer to the questions that had been put to me. The Secretary of State will deal with a number of other points in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u133	I still have time for a few brief interruptions. One question per interruption. Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u134	I do not have the answer to two questions I have asked. I realize that this law came into being under the previous cabinet. That is why I have asked this Minister whether he, like the previous cabinet, believes that this law should be an example for Europe and whether he thinks that Europe is going to take any interest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u135	In general, I think it is wise to want to be a pioneer in climate policy as the Netherlands, because Dutch industry can benefit greatly if we take the lead in this. It is actually a new earning model for Dutch business. But we can also help Dutch households with a more pleasant home, a lower energy bill and you name it. Then specifically this bill. Other EU Member States are indeed looking with interest. "What does the Netherlands do with CO pricing? Could that be helpful in the "Fit for 55" discussion? Can other countries take such measures?" I think that with the current ETS price, it is no longer the world shocking law, but the fact that the Netherlands is prepared to take such measures is indeed being followed with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u136	Mr. Van Strien, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u137	This is only my second interruption. Does the Minister realise that with the lead in climate change, the Dutch families in Europe are lagging behind? Those are the cigars. 500,000 families in energy poverty are screwed. They are lagging behind in Europe and they have been behind for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u138	I agree with Mr Van Strien that energy poverty in the Netherlands is a very big problem and that families affected by it have not been helped sufficiently in recent years. Why is that? We have not had enough climate and energy policy in recent years. If you want the green transition and the social transition to coincide, we should of course have been working for a long time in those poor rental homes, to make them sustainable, to isolate them, to provide solar panels, so that people don't live in a drafty home, but in a pleasant house with a lower energy bill. So I think it is also our duty to ensure that the green transition is a social transition. Then it's just helping to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u139	Mr Crone still lacks an answer. I'm not giving you another interruption, Mr. Van Strien. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u140	I had asked the Minister a question about a few large consumers. If they are switched off during the crisis period, even temporarily, this will result in a great deal of energy savings. gas that we can save for citizens. Maybe it'll even lead to a price cut. They may be tempted to do so with a small public contribution. Is that in the package next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u141	We have the Protection and Recovery Plan Gas for an acute emergency. We have now mapped out the social effects for 60 large gas consumers when we ask them to temporarily switch off. I did not have to use these measures now because we had enough gas for this winter, but I do not rule out the need for this in the coming winters. At all events, I think that, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, we should discuss with these companies how they can accelerate their sustainability, so that their gas consumption and CO emissions go down faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u142	I was curious to see the comparison between what was agreed in the German coalition agreement on a minimum CO price, I thought there was also a maximum price in it, and the current bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u143	The German Government is now also trying to reach a minimum price within Fit for 55. Only if she can't, she'll consider a national law. So I want to work with the Germans in the negotiations now. If it does not come back or not enough in Fit for 55, I would also like to look at how we can work together with the German Government to further improve the CO pricing in the Netherlands and Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u144	Finally, Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u145	Is there a maximum price in these proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u146	You're asking me over now. I do not know whether Germany is considering a maximum price. We could check that out. I honestly don't know that right now. Excuse me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u148	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Taxation and Tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u149	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the warm words that have been said in my direction. It is good to be back in the First Chamber, albeit in a different role and in very special and difficult circumstances. Mr President, you referred to the beginning of the sitting in your introduction. That made a deep impression on me. It's a tradition in this house that the chairman does this. There is currently a war going on in Ukraine, as we have not seen in Europe since the Second World War. At the same time, ordinary work must continue, as must the handling of this bill. This is a draft law that was launched by the previous cabinet. The Minister has already explained that. It started with the Climate Agreement. You could say it's an inheritance. A number of spokesmen have used that terminology. We now proceed with this running train. I'm not going to talk about cubes, but I'm trying to answer all the questions that haven't been left. I should like to begin with Mr Vendrik's question. I think his question concerns our country and all of us most. The question is whether we should compensate citizens and businesses who suffer from high energy prices. Energy prices had already risen before Russia brutally raided Ukraine. Your group has made a plea to help people with low incomes and middle incomes in particular. That's just solidarity. Tomorrow the Central Economic Plan comes out of the Central Planning Bureau. It was agreed in the cabinet that a very quick appreciation would be made. The Central Planning Office will produce results on the basis of the latest data on inflation, purchasing power, budget deficit development, government debt, unemployment, so say all macroeconomic data. In particular, you have to look at what it means for 2022 and what it means for the years after that, because there is an acute situation right now. This urgency is therefore felt, precisely at the point Mr Vendrik and others have raised. Indeed, the energy bill is rising very rapidly. The gas pump also has to be paid a lot. Actually, we haven't seen that yet, or we really have to go back to the oil crisis in 1973. Last year, the previous cabinet allocated EUR 3.2 billion to dampen the effects of then rising energy prices. One could say that this has already set a precedent for what the government and parliament could do in the short term, together with municipalities. That is also going to happen in the short term. Of course, the Cabinet has to make all the considerations under the Spring Note, but it is clear that this issue is so important that it cannot wait until the ultimate decision-making of the Spring Note. My proposal would be to wait for the Central Economic Plan first. That's tomorrow. I have listened carefully to the various senators who have said that this has a huge sense of urgency and demands action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u150	It is good to hear that the cabinet gives this the highest priority. But for the sake of precision, there is one group on which my group is most closely involved. Those are the people at the minimum with the highest energy bill, the people who are dealing with energy poverty and who are unable to pay all their bills right now. Last year we also discussed this with the cabinet. Then there was a generic compensation. We thought it was expensive and not necessary in part. We then advocated concentration, focusing on the people most affected. I hope that's what's gonna happen now. The group that is already dealing with energy poverty and is already unable to pay the bill is not compensated for by the package of the previous cabinet of 3.2 billion and the douceur that the Minister for Social Affairs added to it in December. That's really not enough for this group. So I urge the Secretary of State and the Cabinet in case the CPB comes tomorrow with a broad purchasing power picture: put this group on one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u151	I listened very carefully to Mr Vendrik. I am well aware that the group mentioned by Mr Vendrik is most affected by the increase in energy prices. This increase is, of course, reflected in the price you have to pay for gas, electricity and the pump. I cannot anticipate the decision of the cabinet, but I have listened carefully. There is always a trade-off between a generic measure, a specific measure, or a combination of those two. I have heard this correctly and I will certainly bring it to the discussions in the Cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik had another question. That was whether the government could explain how the revenue estimated at the time at the minimum price was included in the budget. The expected revenue from the Rutte III government agreement, as included in the revenue framework at the time, was 236 million in 2020, 300 million in 2021 and 620 million in structural terms. Following the re-evaluation of the measure, it was found that the CO-minimum price no longer yields. What happened next? The cabinet has covered the deficits within the previous cabinet period of 236 million and 300 million, including a windfall from not continuing to abolish the dividend tax. That's one. That's right. Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Vendrik laughing, but I can still follow this. If you have a setback on the revenue side, the rule is that you collect it on the income side as well. That's what happened to the 300 million. I see that this gives rise to even greater hilarity for Mr Vendrik. In doing so, the previous cabinet followed the agreements on the separation of income and expenditure. By the way, we have also made this in the start note. That is the answer to the question of what happened. There will then be another 300 million, because in total this is a structural cover of 620 million. The remaining 320 million was not found on the revenue side. Also, expenditure has not been reduced by 320 million. That just slipped into the balance. That's actually the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u152	I also mentioned those amounts. The previous coalition agreement, to which you refer, explicitly stated that this money will be channelled back to families or citizens and businesses. Would you mind taking that up for a second? You are now saying that the remaining 300 million, but also those other amounts, were not there. So has less money been channelled back to citizens and businesses, and is that going to happen less?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u153	If there's no return, you can't put anything back. That's the answer. I have answered Mr Vendrik's question as to what happens to the one 300 million. That is what the continued dividend tax has been used for. The other 300 million runs away in the balance. That is my answer, including to Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u154	It's kind of amazing how this goes. If this happens on the expenditure side of the budget, then the basic rule of budgetary rules is that the minister of service can clean up his own mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u155	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u156	And on the revenue side, we're gonna do it a little bit differently. That is where we are talking about business, where we are going to run away from the balance, and that is where we are going to bring in a manufactured windfall, namely not to continue with the abolition of the dividend tax. This isn't how this cabinet goes on, is it? That's not how I recognize this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u157	The Secretary of State for Finance is, of course, for the revenue side and also for the strict enforcement of budgetary rules. I've had the first experience with that. Of course, Mr Vendrik is right: if there is a setback on the expenditure side, it must be resolved by the department responsible for policy. In this case, if there is a setback on the revenue side, then the policy department is the Ministry of Finance. But I'm just gonna answer you. I'm transparent about what happened. I honestly don't like accounting tricks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u158	Then we understand each other very well, namely that from now on the pure line is: if there is a setback in the burden of business over the coming years, then the business community is going to cope with it. That's how we get each other. Then it's fair play, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u159	Yeah, but you can also reason differently. I would also like to challenge Mr Vendrik. One could also say: when it came to not continuing the abolition of dividend tax, business could of course have risen and said: do something in the sphere of corporation tax. I would like to draw a parallel, because I think this is a very interesting subject. I am not going to anticipate what we are coming with, but of course we are now dealing with the same kind of problem with box 3. From my point of view, it has already been pointed out that the setback is in box 3. That's on the revenue side. Then you will also have to find the solution on the revenue side, preferably with the same type of tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u160	We have experienced it for four years when we do not continue to abolish the dividend tax. That had to be done, and that would be where the friends who have promoted this every time in the cabinet have returned to business, up to and including the BIK, who died in the European Commission. So it really worked out. I am concerned that this was actually a burden increase. And then all of a sudden, we look away. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u161	I think I have made myself clear to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u162	I would like to call on both the Secretary of State and Mr Vendrik to remain within the order of the debate and thus on the subject of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u163	I'm gonna do the best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u164	Although I understand that a comparison might be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u165	I'm staying in the climate debate. The Secretary of State says box 3 must be solved within the same atmosphere. Climate purchasing power problems must also be solved in the same atmosphere. So get that money out of the climate funds. The Prime Minister said here in the General Reviews: Mr Otten is actually right, it is 100 billion, all in all; that is what you come up with. Get the money out of there for compensation. Take the money out of that for measures to help those coal plants, for measures that allow people to continue to pay their energy bills, to compensate for the damage caused by gas extraction, and you name it. Then we can move on. Because we really need to take action now. Waiting for the spring note is not an option. Coen Teulings, the former CPB boss, has said: in a crisis, these kinds of macro models are worthless; they are useless, because it changes every day. So let's not now, I say to the Secretary of State, wait again for models and bills, because it changes all the time. It's a moving target. Trade as a cabinet. That would be my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u166	I do not hear a question, but I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u167	I'll be very brief. I've heard it. To be honest, I have just said that tomorrow the Central Planning Office will be presenting the Central Economic Plan. The cabinet sees the urgency of the exorbitant rise in energy costs and their impact on citizens very clearly. Mr. Chairman. Some questions have been asked by Mr Ester, Mr Van der Voort and Mr Essers about the implementation by the Dutch Emission Authority. Why the Dutch Emission Authority? This is a tax. Why not the IRS? So I have briefly summarized the questions. There are a number of reasons for choosing that the NEa, the Dutch Emission Authority, should lift and int. Firstly, there is the experience with CO. This is also a limited group of taxpayers. That's 135, in a sector that's very well known to the NEA. The NEa also collects and collects the tax under the Industry CO-tax Act and is implementing the EU ETS emissions trading system. The Minister has also just explained that this is a whole range of policy instruments and plans. That's why there's two of us here, him as Minister for Climate and Energy. Of course it fits better with the NEa. It is also a great advantage that companies will have one point of contact, not two. The implementation test was positive in terms of whether the NEA could handle it. The various roles, both those of the Ministry of Finance and those of the Ministry of Finance, are also well formalised in contract letters. There is also regular consultation. Furthermore, the functioning of the NEa is evaluated every five years. The main rule is indeed that a state tax must be done by the state tax administration. The bill makes an exception to that rule, in Article 71g. It is more common that it is not the state tax service, but that, for example, provinces or municipalities may levy and collect taxes on the basis of the AWR. The direction of the Minister of Finance is not limited. It is under the authority of the Minister of Finance. That is also stated in Article 71g, paragraph 1. The AWR expertise, as Mr Essers rightly points out, is specific expertise of the Tax Administration. It is also foreseen that it will provide all support and assistance to this end. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, I would like to add that this may happen more often. We also come to this Chamber to talk extensively about the Tax Administration. The Tax Administration, of course, always has the primary task of levying and collecting taxes. But in a specific case like this, with the arguments I have mentioned, it would be no harm at all to see whether this can be done better by someone else. This is seen not only from the government, from the Tax Administration, and from a further increase in the tasks of the Tax Administration, but also for the benefit of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u168	That last remark by the Secretary of State only adds to my concern. I understand from this that a precedent has been set and that tax can therefore be collected much more often by other authorities. Then how does the government keep the overview? Isn't that how it's gonna be? The concentration and the main rule, which is also mentioned, that the Tax Administration collects tax, are precisely so clear to everyone in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u169	I don't want to get the impression that the IRS is gonna outsource everything. Not at all. Once I've done that, I want to take it back right away. But precisely the expertise on this specific point of the CO levy really belongs to the Dutch Emission Authority, as I indicated. It already plays a role when it comes to the CO levy for industry. It already plays a role when it comes to the ETS system. Then you can of course remain very principled, but you can also be pragmatic. In this case, again, it's secured. It's secured by the law. It's secured in the letter of commission. It is also secured by the support and assistance in terms of proper application of the AWR. So if I had given the impression that we are now going to outsource massively to the Tax Office, then that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u170	Then my question to the Secretary of State is whether the substantive arguments such as the Council of State, which has also formulated, have been adequately covered. The last point I would like to make is this. If the NEa completes that preparation, after which the completion can be done by the Tax Administration, then I still don't really see the problem why the Tax Administration couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u171	I have given the arguments, including in the written examination of the draft law, why we are truly convinced that this can be done. Of course, the opinion of the Council of State has also been carefully and seriously taken into account. The downside of the option you just mentioned is that you get two more drives after all. We are truly convinced that it is sufficiently secure, on the basis of the arguments I have given earlier. Mr. Chairman. A further question was asked by Mr Essers on state aid. Is this or is it not illegal state aid? I would like to reply to this. Member States have their own responsibility to check whether an aid measure is involved. Only in the event of serious doubts will an informal test be requested from the European Commission. In fact, the Netherlands is actually... I am not saying that the Netherlands has been spit on the jacket, but the Netherlands has been told by the European Commission that we have too often asked informally in the past: is it state aid or not? That's just a trade-off you have to make. Perhaps we knocked on the door a little too often, perhaps unlike other EU Member States. Mr. Essers referred to the BIK. There were serious doubts about the BIK. There was no precedent there and therefore no indication of the European Commission's opinion on State aid. In this case, there is a precedent. Indeed, a formal decision has been taken by the Commission on the State aid aspects of a similar system introduced by the United Kingdom in 2013. That decision, that precedent, therefore gives a good indication of how the Commission will judge in these cases. We do not think it is appropriate to start informally now. This is an unnecessary burden on the Commission. They have also told us this in other matters. Mr. Chairman. I would like to continue with the question of what I have done with the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Administrative Burdens, the Actal Opinion. That was a question from Mrs. Prast. I think that's what your interruption was about from earlier. Actal has advised to supplement the explanatory statement with the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal, in particular on the effects of the scheme. The Minister has also dealt with this issue quite extensively, not so much with the opinion, but with the usefulness and necessity of the legislative proposal. We followed the advice. The explanatory memorandum sets out, inter alia, the effects of the scheme on the level playing field on the European market, CO reduction and tax revenues. That was in the light of how the climate agreement was adopted and how the draft law was written at the time. The Minister also indicated quite extensively, on my behalf, in the first term, that we are indeed considering a mid-term review. In fact, that's a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u172	The ATR, once Actal, said the usefulness and the need not to see and advised against submitting the proposal. However, the cabinet has responded to the Council of State's request to further motivate it. So my question is: what has the government done with the ATR opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u173	The ATR has a different view. Sorry, I was still in the old terminology, but that's what you're gonna have when you walk with me for a few years. We do see the point and the need for it. The Minister has shown that again. We understand very well all the doubts that have been expressed here by various senators. I too, as a fiscalist, find it equally difficult to defend a legislative proposal which introduces a tax that does not lead to taxation and which is currently a very serious discrepancy between the minimum price and the ETS price. The Minister has indicated, on my behalf, that we are coming up with a mid-term review. A number of senators have also mentioned this. I am aware that in the case of CO taxes, unlike direct taxes, it would of course be the ideal world for everyone to adapt in such a way that the levy is no longer necessary, so that it is the stick with which you can threaten, unless you want to have the minimum price higher in this case. I would also like to mention that, of course, a lot of revenue, not in the form of taxes, is coming to the National Emission Authority as a result of the ETR. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Prast also asked why there are implementation costs if there is no positive levy. As long as there is no positive levy, there will be no structural implementation costs. However, there are a limited number of incidental costs. The Dutch Emission Authority must prepare itself for the new implementation tasks in the event of a positive levy. These include, for example, changes in ICT, the provision of information to businesses and the building of expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u174	The initial proposal calculated the costs of the Emission Authority and industry. I have examined what these costs were in this proposal. It was clear to me that there are one-off costs for business, regardless of the levy. So they're still there. That's about half a billion if I do. Now it doesn't say anything... I couldn't find out at the Emission Authority how high the implementation costs are. I'm not getting that answer now, but maybe that's not known either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u175	I don't know that answer now either. I'll check it out. I said there were incidental costs. I'd like to get back to that in the second term. If it takes more time, we'll take it with us in the letter the minister promised for next week. Mr President, those were my answers to the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u176	I have missed the answer to my question about the fear of directors that companies are moving abroad if the minimum tax is too high. That is also an important argument in the explanatory statement. My question is: do you have any evidence as to what such a chance is? With such a low minimum tax, companies really do not decide on the transfer of their entire trade to another country on Monday on Tuesday. Do you have any evidence that this could actually happen at the current level of the levy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u177	The Minister has already said what is necessary in response to questions in the first term. Reference has been made to the German coalition agreement, to the €60 and to the consultations with Belgium and France. He has also said that he will soon sit down with this group of taxpayers and the electricity-producing companies. Is there fear? There is, of course, a balance on the basis of the legislative proposal as it has now been formulated with this minimum price. On the one hand, you want security of supply and you want to prevent what Mr Ester points out from happening, and on the other hand, of course, you want to achieve the CO targets. No, there is no such fear at the moment, but in the context of what is now going on with the developments in the energy market and when you look at the CBAM proposal, which the Minister has also talked about, there is a lot of movement. There will be Ecofin next week. That is why we agreed to this mid-term review. So, no, there isn't that fear right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u178	All the movements you mention do not have so much to do with that minimum tax. My argument is that this minimum tax is so low that no company will consider moving the company abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u179	Yes, but they do think it is important to give that certainty about the minimum tax. That's why it's there. You can turn it around. What if that minimum tax isn't there? They must also take investment decisions. You don't take it overnight. These are long-term decisions, and that minimum levy is important for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u180	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u181	Thank you, Mr President. I thank both the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. They have taken this debate a lot further. I note that next week the cabinet will come up with a plan to deal with the acute gas crisis. I repeat once again that my group is keenest to see that speeding up the transition in a maximum position and saving energy are the main elements of this approach. I note that the cabinet soon comes up with a plan to do something about purchasing power. I would like to reiterate my plea just now that the main focus of my group is on those families who are already living in energy poverty and for whom the existence of this period is becoming even more complex. Let this group be the cabinet's priority. I note that the cabinet comes in May with a comprehensive response to the latest IPCC report. I would be very pleased if the cabinet would pay explicit attention to my plea or my solution to stop new fossil projects now. I would appreciate it if the Minister for Climate could also probe it with the Minister for Finance, because this is a key issue in terms of financial stability and the financial sector. I'd like a commitment on that point. I note that next year the cabinet will come up with a result on the European CO-minimum price route and then with two things: a national CO-minimum price law for industry and an evaluation of the price path contained in today's law. Mr. Chairman. We'll wait and see. Don't let it take too long. I would be very pleased if all four commitments made by the cabinet in this debate could also be directly informed to the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill. The contribution is not great, but it is a step in the right direction, especially in the light of what this cabinet is going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Unfortunately, the Minister for Climate and Energy is no longer present. I have calculated on his answer some of the comments, but I understand that I may address them to the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I am referring to the point made by the Minister for Climate and Energy that he welcomes the fact that we are currently at such a high ETS price. This reminded me of the previous actions of Minister Jetten when the Hemwegcentrale closed down, albeit in a different capacity. I find it outrageous that the Minister welcomes a high ETS price and therefore a high energy price while 500,000 families live in energy poverty. In fact, I find it shameful. Now, this minimum price for CO is probably not going to make this situation worse, but this is part of a comprehensive package of energy measures that leads to and continues to lead to disasters, both for families and for the economy as a whole. We will therefore vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u184	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to the Secretary of State and the Minister for answering our questions in the first term. It is clear that the level of the levy is the pièce de résistance in this debate. The current ETS prices are many times higher than the proposed minimum tax. It is not going to make a difference in the eyes of my group. However volatile the ETS prices may be, it is not realistic that they will be below the current marginal tax. This makes the levy a bit toothless and based on outdated figures. The pricing of CO emissions is very important in order to drastically reduce emissions and encourage investment in the sustainability and independence of fossil fuels, but the level of the currently proposed minimum levy will not wake up electricity producers. We need a serious, effective and fair price incentive to have an impact, also in view of our national and international climate commitments. As it turned out, the directors do not intend to intervene now in the level of the minimum levy. The evaluation in three years' time should provide further information on this. So be it. However, there will be a new step-by-step plan. We'll get a letter on that next week. We welcome this commitment and look forward to the letter, but I would like to emphasise once again that letting the levy breathe with the EU ETS prices could be a principle. That's a bit of a relief. Perhaps the Secretary of State could make some additional comments on this in order to clarify his position on this principle. The principle put forward by my group, including a more realistic level of taxation, should be part of the evaluation. It has been promised that this will also be covered in the letter, for which we thank you. Similarly, the Netherlands, as one of the first EU countries, is going to introduce a minimum tax on CO emissions from electricity producers. The fact that the Netherlands is going to raise a minimum price for greenhouse gas emissions from electricity generation is an important step forward. In the end, the level of the levy itself is an implementation issue and a political choice issue, but one with an explicit fundamental background and approach. If we want to pass our earth on to the next generation without harm, we need to be much more offensive and less reluctant in addressing stakeholders on their responsibility and much more compelling regulation. Our fiscal instrumentatrium is also in full focus. My group hopes that we will be able to see the Secretary of State and the Minister as formidable supporters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u187	Thank you, Mr President. I too thank the rulers and their staff for answering our questions. The answer to these questions has unfortunately removed our concerns with regard to energy security. Therefore, if it is permitted, Mr President, I shall table my motion announced in the first term. The: Mr Berkhout, Mr Beuker, Mr Van der Linden and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current situation in Eastern Europe has a far-reaching impact on energy supply in Europe and thus in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Dutch energy security is under pressure from 1. the rising energy prices and 2. the unclear security of supply of energy due to the situation in Eastern Europe;]] [[noting that Dutch coal plants are among the most modern in the world and that their production is legally limited to 35% of their capacity by 2025;]] [[noting that Germany is reconsidering the accelerated closure of coal and nuclear power plants in order to increase the country's energy security;]] [[Whereas sufficient reliable and affordable energy supply is indispensable for the Dutch economy and society;]] [[calls on the cabinet to allow the operators of Dutch coal plants to scale energy production by coal to 100% of capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35216-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u188	Mr President, this motion has been co-signed by Mr Otten. And then I'll be at the end of this second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u189	Thank you, Mr. Berkhout. Mrs Prast has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u190	Mr President, on a point of order. One of the few positive things about the corona states was the self-reading of the motions. Can't we just maintain that? I think that's faster too. Then the motion also better comes across the spotlight of the person who invented it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u191	Thank you, Mr. Otten. We'll discuss that at the College of Seniors. That's where it's been discussed, but we'll discuss it again. Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, the only argument I have heard for the usefulness and necessity of this bill is that investment security can lead to companies investing more in low-carbon technologies. And then we're talking about electricity companies. I have asked if the objective of investment security is to be achieved, this can also be done with a higher minimum CO price. I didn't hear an answer to that. I would like to add one more thing. I would say myself that the higher the minimum CO price in the bill, the greater the certainty you offer. A company that makes a choice in this law on the basis of the price path, and that's what the law aims to achieve.... will not soon choose to invest in low-carbon technology, the opposite of what the law says to aim at. And when we talk about a reliable government, if in the future the minimum price increases on the basis of what we already know, aren't we deluding companies? Why don't we just give him a fake security? In fact, doesn't this price path actually signal to the business community that according to the government, the CO price is going to fall sharply? These are questions to which I do not expect an answer now, but questions raised by me during this debate. I would like to table two motions, and I am actually pleased that the President is going to read them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u193	You'll have to wait and see, but I'll do it this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u194	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. I would like to continue to support this bill, because it is at least a safety net, and before you know it, that price is going down anyway. Apparently it turned out to be after covid, but I have already mentioned that the futures had already fallen a bit yesterday. So before you know it, we're gonna say, "If only we had kept that law." That is why I welcome the evaluation, already within a year. As a suggestion I would like to ask the Secretary of State: it is a rate by law, but is there a solution here to fix the rate via AMvB? Then you can make an adjustment much faster, via a front, through both Chambers. I don't think I can do that anymore today, but that could be part of the evaluation. We've already seen the short-term disruption. Who knows, if there really is a recession, that these energy prices are going down and so is the demand for emissions, and thus a further fall in the ETS price. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic I have just said to the Minister that I can see that the cabinet does give rise to urgency in order to take additional measures, but these are measures that take time, from isolation to industry. So I appeal to the cabinet, others have also said it: show much more urgency, stand next to the people on the point of poverty. But also: show it, then the industry will also speed up energy saving. On balance, we will certainly vote in favour because this safety net certainly does not harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u195	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply and the officials who have worked on it. I have a number of additional comments to make. If the whole Chamber says that the bill is actually ineffective and has no direct effect because the minimum price is much lower than the ETS price, then you can go two ways as a cabinet. In other words, you withdraw the entire bill, but then you have to start again from the beginning and then you lose the principle. In other words, what is happening now, you say: we are going to assess in the short term what the situation is and what it will be like in the near future, and we will come up with amendments if we consider that necessary on the basis of that evaluation. There's something to say for both scenarios. I will present the scenario proposed by the cabinet to my group. But I do think it is important that the letter promised by the Minister looks good in the sense that not only parameters are being discussed, but also scenarios and the methodology, the systematics that are now being applied in that evaluation. One of the questions that has frequently arisen is how this CO tax is now related to the market changes in that ETS price. So to what extent is the relationship between the minimum price and the ETS price moving along? I actually found Mr Crone's idea of a wiggle tax very attractive. It is becoming a bit more complicated and less predictable, but the principle that you have to look at the market conditions for this CO-tax does appeal to me. I am going to put it to my group. Then there was the issue of whether it would be wise to leave the implementation of the whole issue not to the Tax Administration but to the Dutch Emission Authority. That is undoubtedly a point that we are going to discuss even more in the future. I want to highlight one element in particular. The risk with such a body that will levy and collect taxes is that it will be a very technocratic approach. That was also the problem with the supplement case, which at some point were carried out entirely technocratically. That's something I think the IRS is much better trained in. They are used, at least, to acting as a judge and not as a technician or as a treasurer. That is an element that we must keep a close eye on. Finally, I had the element of state aid. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for explaining why this is not the case in the cabinet's view. There is one thing I would like to emphasise. At the BIK, the then Secretary of State was truly convinced that there was no risk of State aid. However, there were doubts as to whether it was in line with the freedom of establishment if there was a tax unit. But that state aid did not really play a role, and that also came out of a box. Again, I would like to warn you about that. Look, we are very much in favour of a European arrangement. And if you are going to a European scheme, I do not really see any need to maintain that difference between electricity-generating companies and electricity-using companies. If you could remove that, you would also eliminate the risk of state aid. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u197	Thank you, Mr. Essers. Then I give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u198	Mr. Chairman. My group would also like to thank the directors for the answers to our questions. We are also pleased that the commitment to climate and the importance given to climate are made so explicit. We appreciate that very much. We have not yet received an answer to our question about the free issuance of allowances as they are now forgiven. Is that free issue still relevant in the coming years? And how does it relate to the EU's policy on emission allowances in the broad sense? Is the issue of these free rights perhaps also part of an evaluation, or the evaluation, of this bill that will be made later this year or next year? Finally, on the collection of taxes by the NEA rather than by the Tax Administration. Is it possible that this aspect will also be taken into account in the evaluation, so that we can look again at whether it has indeed been the right choice? Perhaps this can be revised in due course on the basis of that evaluation. All in all, Mr President, our group will vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u199	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I call Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u200	Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Secretary of State to convey our thanks to the Minister for answering the questions. This also applies, of course, to the clarity of the answers given by the Secretary of State himself. Two more comments, Mr President. I have a request to the cabinet that, in the promised comprehensive note, not so much focus on stopping fossil, as GroenLinks would like, because that is secondary, but on focusing on CO reduction, which is decisive for the climate. This is a reduction in CO from all businesses and households in order to meet the climate objectives. As everyone knows, energy efficiency is also very important. A second request is to include the IPCC passages on nuclear energy in the policy. The IPCC states that the objectives for the Netherlands are impossible to achieve without nuclear energy. This is also mentioned in the 6,000 pages Mr Vendrik mentioned in his first term. I would also ask the Cabinet to examine the possibilities of the SMR plants, the smaller plants that are being produced and which can be ordered on call. This also shortens the ten years it takes to get a small power plant to supply energy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been a pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u201	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u202	Mr. Chairman. We thank the directors for their reply. However, we do see a marked pattern in the administration's handling of the rapidly escalating energy crisis which forces rapid and decisive action. Our group is getting a deja vu to deal with the corona crisis by the Rutte cabinet. There too they often waited too long to act and too often they hid behind models of the RIVM. And now the Cabinet wants to wait for the CPB and the Spring Note. As if in a serious accident you say to the injured person: just lie still until spring, we are working on a plan to help you, but the model is not quite finished; but we are going to help you, it will all be fine. In times of crisis, a macromodel is no good. Those are not my words, those are the words of former CPB director Coen Teulings yesterday in the Financial Journal. According to Minister Jetten, the new nuclear power plants will only be operational in at least ten years' time so that electricity will come out. For our group, ten years seems rather quick. We now have the problem we need to solve, just as we are in a transition and that for the Netherlands actually comes at the most unfortunate moment. We just need coal and gas now and we can't get around it. Facebook's data centre alone needs 120 windmills, just as much as the city of Amsterdam or a year of Dutch Railways. There is also growth in consumption, so we have to do something now and we cannot avoid keeping those coal plants open for longer. We had the plan to table a motion on this, but we are opposed to unnecessary motions. The Berkhout motion aims to achieve the same objective as the motion we had in mind, which is why we co-signed it. We are therefore abstaining from our own motion. As we have said before, we consider this minimum CO price Act to be a superfluous piece of symbol legislation and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u203	Thank you, Mr Otten. Mr Van Apeldoorn has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u204	Thank you to both rulers for the answer. I had asked the Minister to reflect on the one hand on subsidising the climate transition and on the other on standards and prices. The Minister did not get to that in his reply, but perhaps the Secretary of State could do so on his behalf. It also has everything to do with fiscal greening. What about the pricing when it comes to CO emissions? This is not only in relation to the bill, but also in general. Do we do praise in the right way? In my first term, I also drew attention to the fact that Mr Van der Plas' motion for a resolution also states that there is a imbalance in how we tax large consumers versus how we tax small consumers. Then you can see that this ratio is completely distorted and small consumers pay a lot more for their energy than large consumers, the big polluters. That is the opposite of climate justice. There's minus one minute here, but I don't think that's correct, Mr. President. I'm just gonna keep going, 'cause I hadn't started that long. This, I think, is from the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u205	No, you signed up for two minutes, and you've spoken for three minutes. So you come at minus one. But continue. You know how cool I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u206	Okay, well, I'll check it out later. For the sake of clarity, I would like to add my voice to Mr Vendrik's comments on low incomes, the minimum levels of living in poorly isolated houses and for whom the energy bill has become priceless. We must not do anything about this the next month or the following month; we must do something about it now. Finally, the legislative proposal itself. The Minister said that we are not going to see the CO reduction, but it may be an incentive for sustainability through investment security. All this has already been changed, but my group is convinced that this would also be the case with this current low minimum price. Then the Minister says that we cannot wait for a new bill, we have to do something now and he refers to the IPCC report et cetera. But if we're in such a hurry, wouldn't this government be better off withdrawing the current bill and coming up with something better? An alternative is to change the law in perhaps a year or later. As far as our group is concerned, much depends on what is in that letter that we see next Tuesday and what there are commitments in it. On that basis, I will advise my group to vote in favour or against. Finally, I am already in an injury period, and I would like to say that I wholeheartedly support both Mr Prast's motions and the first has also been signed. Mrs. Prast forgot to mention that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u207	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Secretary of State, are you able to answer directly the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u208	I'd also like to appreciate the motions. So the answer is no. I need seven minutes tops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u209	Seven minutes. Then I'll suspend until 5:28 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u210	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Taxation and Tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u211	Mr President, thank you. There were still a few questions left. I'm still trying to answer that. Mrs Prast asked a question about incidental costs. Then we talk about tens of thousands of euros at most. That's in that order of magnitude. Mr Crone asked whether the bill could possibly be amended by AMvB rather than by law. In the case of tax legislation, this is a tax law, and it is important that the essence is regulated at the level of the law. This is also important for democratic legitimacy. Surely that means that it should be done by means of a legislative amendment. That brings me to a third point. That is Mr Essers' question. He said either you withdraw the bill or you adopt the bill now with the instrument as it is now. We all know that the ETS price is significantly higher than the minimum price. Mr Vendrik had formulated it precisely in his first term, also in the light of what the Minister said about it. This mid-term review means looking at what is happening with the European ETS. We'll see what happens to the CO industry. We will indeed look at the mid-term review of this law at the beginning of next year to see whether it is necessary to do something about this pricing. I have understood correctly, and I say this to you, that this will also be included in the letter which the Minister has promised for next Tuesday. Among other things, Mr Van Ballekom had asked a question about SMR plants. In the appreciation of the IPCC report, we will address the issue of nuclear energy. This comes with the appreciation given by the Minister in response to the IPCC report. Mr Van Apeldoorn had come back to what had been said in the first term about fiscal greening. You can use the tax instrument, you can use the subsidy and you can set standards. The coalition agreement that is ambitious in the field of climate policy mentions all national instruments, and also at EU level, such as the Fit for 55 plans. So there really is a broader policy mix. I would like to make the proposal that the Minister for Nuclear Energy... sorry, for nuclear energy; that is a nice slip! That's a contraction. I mean the Minister for Climate and Energy. The Minister will come back to it when he will share with the Chamber the note he has been granted. I thought those were the questions. Perhaps it is good to say something about this mid-term review. Mr Ester noted that the evaluation would be after three years. The emphasis is now on the mid-term review. As I have just pointed out, the effectiveness of this instrument and the adjustment in terms of pricing in the light of the overall EU ETS and CO levy instruments for industry will be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u212	I still miss the point of the Tax Administration in the evaluation. Is that still being evaluated and is that perhaps being revised on the basis of those conclusions? Also my question on the issue of allowances free of charge has not yet been answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u213	Thank you. I went through some of my papers, but I always appreciate being encouraged to answer questions that haven't been answered yet. I will make that commitment. In this respect, the Dutch Emission Authority has been set up to do so. In anticipation of the evaluation, I am not going to promise that it will still have to go to the Tax Administration, but that seems to me to be the core of an evaluation. The second was about phasing out the free allowances. I think there was also a question from Mrs Prast about this. Those free allowances have actually only come to prevent you from getting undesirable carbon leakage. Now there are two developments. At European level, there is an accelerated phasing-out of these free allowances. Second. The CBAM, the carbon tax at the border, is precisely intended to build a wall from that level playing field of the European Union, so that you do not unwelcomely import CO-unfriendly energy from outside. Mr van Ballekom rightly pointed this out in his first term. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The first motion is that of Mr Berkhout and others. With the letter E. TenneT, an additional security of supply analysis has recently been carried out, focusing specifically on measures for coal plants, such as the production restriction. The measures do not jeopardise the availability of electricity according to that analysis. Therefore, there is no need to adjust the measures. The coal plants have an annual CO ceiling and are thus able to produce more electricity than 35% of their capacity in these months. The situation is, of course, closely monitored by the Cabinet. Should it be concluded at a later stage that these measures pose unacceptable risks to the security of electricity supply or security of gas supply, further measures will be taken. At the moment, we advise against this motion. Then the motion-Prast with the letter F. That is the motion that the government is calling for auction revenues to be earmarked for the compensation of families.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u214	Let me turn to the motion that we have co-signed. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Berkhout. Government is forward-looking, but the Secretary of State actually says: wait until the light goes out; then we'll see what we're going to do with the coal power stations. You can, of course, predict in the current situation that this will go wrong very quickly. The CPB report has been leaked. We can already read at RTL News that everyone is declining at least 2.5%. That was calculated before the war. So it's gonna be really intense. Why do you advise against this motion? I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u215	Mr Otten pretends to say here: close the curtains and go to sleep. Absolutely not. The sense of urgency is felt. The report from the Central Planning Bureau will come out tomorrow. In my first term, I indicated that the cabinet will be discussing the impact of high energy prices on low and modal incomes in the very short term. The Minister replied on energy security. I have made it very clear in the appreciation: not now. I have also indicated that if conditions change dramatically, other measures must of course be taken. The situation is of course very unclear, but also in a crisis you have to keep a cool head, in the sense that you weigh the different options on the basis of the information you get and then come to the right choices. We therefore advise against this motion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u216	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u217	The motion speaks of 100% coal. I do not know whether the Secretary is aware that coal power stations need to co-incinerate biomass to meet the requirements. So there are also a lot of trees in those coal plants. It is precisely the 100% coal that is a very important aspect of the motion. That's why I co-signed her. Is the Secretary of State aware of that, I wonder?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u218	Yes, the Secretary of State is aware of that. That does not lead to any other appreciation of the motion. So dissuade it. Then the motion with the letter "F." The government requests that auction proceeds be marked as compensation for families. The ETS revenues come into general resources and are therefore not part of the revenue and expenditure framework, as I replied in the first period. Thus, they affect the balance of government and therefore are not available to participate in expenditure. For example, the budgetary rules and the budgetary framework, as we also laid down in the initial note. We therefore advise against this motion. Then there is Mrs Prast's second motion, with the letter G. It proposes that a gift tax be paid on the issue of free allowances. I have just indicated that these free allowances are intended to prevent leakage. They're being phased out. To this end, it is counterproductive to start levying a tax on it, quite apart from the tax-legal aspect of a gift tax. I don't know how we're gonna settle that in the Succession Act. You have the animus donandi, the will to give, to give, and the will to receive. One must be impoverished and the other must enrich. That is very legal legislation. That is also the criticism that sometimes is made of it: make that concept of "bestowal" economic. But that's not the case right now. So I really don't know how we should shape that in the Succession Act as it stands. We also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u219	I give Mr Vendrik an opportunity to put a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u220	In the second term, I have expressed the expectation that the cabinet will also inform the First Chamber in good time about purchasing power, gas, IPPC, the minimum prices for industry, the European pathway and so on next year. I'm just gonna assume this is gonna work itself out. I had asked the specific question whether, in response to the IPPC report, the cabinet would like to include my plea for a halt to new fossil production, or whether it could also consider the impact on the financial sector, and whether the Minister for Climate and Energy might want to probe this with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u221	I did not hear Mr Vendrik say it, but it happens to be in my portfolio: this is also important for export credit insurance. We have recently debated this with the House of Representatives. I have also promised that we will come up with an evaluation. I will take the wider request to the Cabinet, but I will not, of course, undertake to honour your request on behalf of the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u222	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-6.u223	I have come to deal with the legislative proposal 35216, the Law on minimum CO-price electricity generation. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next week on the legislative proposal and also vote next week on the three motions tabled. This brings us to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the members, the Minister, the Secretary of State and the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
