ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good indeed that today we can discuss the issue of digitalisation in response to the main letter sent by the government in March of this year. It is a development and a transition with an incredible impact on all of us. A number of you have already said this: the current digital revolution offers great opportunities for our society and our economy. The cabinet also wants to take advantage of these opportunities, from a strong starting position. Because thanks to our excellent infrastructure, the Netherlands is in a leading group of EU countries in terms of digitisation. At the same time, and some of you have already said a great deal about this, we must not close our eyes to the risks. Think of data leaks, disinformation campaigns or the 20% Dutch people who do not have digital basic skills, and who cannot participate in that digital society. Digitalisation thus contributes to growing inequality. These things can put pressure on our security, the rule of law, democracy, people and fundamental rights and our competitiveness. It is therefore so important that this government recognizes that we are in charge as a government. By playing a driving role, we can shape the digital transition in such a way that it fits the important and characteristic Dutch values, such as security, democracy and self-determination. It is the task of this cabinet to ensure that our world becomes as safe, inclusive and viable online as the world offline. Of course, I do this together with my fellow executives, whose core team is also present in this Chamber today, to work on a serviceable digital government, in a connected digital society and with an innovative and innovative economy, with solid rules of play, supervision, more strategic autonomy and a leading role in Europe. With these European rules, such as the Digital Markets Act, we restrict the market power of large platforms so that more opportunities are created for our SMEs and for others, and we ensure that there is freedom of choice for citizens and that they are protected. For example, we do the same with the Digital Services Act and the AI Act, the law on artificial intelligence. They protect our human rights and democracy. After the summer recess, we will publish a work agenda, as already announced in the main letter. In it we indicate exactly what activities we are going to perform in the coming period. That's an agenda we're making together with the cabinet. It indicates what we are going to do with the government, what we intend to do for our society, our economy and other themes, such as the Dutch cybersecurity strategy. In this work agenda, we will talk, among other things, about digital identity, accessibility, e-government and the protection of citizens. We also want to introduce this widely and, of course, discuss it with you. Today we are doing this mainly on the basis of the outline letter. The first block deals with the coordinating role. A number of questions have been asked. I have the task of working with the cabinet, together with my fellow executives, on the digital government, a connected society, a digital society and also an innovative and innovative digital economy. We need rules for this, such as good supervision, autonomy and a leading role in Europe. That's what it says in our coalition agreement. Then, of course, there is work to be done for a lot of people. Because digitisation plays a role in many of our policy areas, whether it's the work of the government itself and our services, whether it's about security, cybersecurity, or what we want in the areas of healthcare, climate and so on. That will always be work for many. It is, of course, important that we ensure that this fits together and that we have a common foundation on which we want to work, for example in monitoring our human rights and ensuring that digital society is safe, inclusive and viable. Of course, I'll be committed to that. But again, we do that together. In the cabinet, we also said: if we see that it is not enough to make agreements with one another to talk to society to get things done, then we will also not avoid the need for a law or a standard from time to time. It is important to ensure that we achieve what we want, namely a world that is as safe online as it is offline. I would like to answer the questions raised by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Van Weerdenburg, among others. Mrs Van Weerdenburg also asked what is the intention of the next step we want to take. She said, of course, the main letter deals with a number of higher-level intentions and objectives. That is, of course, also the idea of the outline letter. Of course, it is very important that we put this into practice. She is right to point that out. We're gonna show that after the summer. We show what we are going to do, for example, in the area of digital identity. We'll talk about that later. We will talk about the points that apply to the Dutch government. How, for example, do we make our services more bundled? How do we ensure that services can be provided in a safe and sound way? We are going to work on the road maps of the I strategy. So we're going to make sure that the IT of the Empire gets back on track. We do this together and we ensure that it is done in a safe way. We'll make sure our backlogs are resolved. We're gonna work on Red teaming to make sure hackers don't come into our house. It's all that kind of stuff. The state-wide cloud policy certainly plays a role in this. I will answer the questions that have been asked about this in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	Beautiful, but when? 'Cause we've been asking for this for a long time. To be honest, most things have been promised much earlier. I believe that the roadmaps would have gone to the Chamber by the end of last year. We also asked for this in the spring. Each time it was said: before the summer recess. I understand now that this is not going to work, because the Secretary of State is now saying: after the summer recess. Can she promise that we will receive these roadmaps well before the debate we will have in the budget cycle, whether it becomes a WHO or another kind of debate? In any case, we intend to discuss this with each other in September. Will it be possible to send all this to the Chamber well before that debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	Maybe I should be a little more specific. I was talking about the work programme. It'll come after the summer. The main letter said that we would do that before the summer. We could have done that if we could have had the main debate a little earlier than today, but unfortunately that did not work. We're gonna try to do that as soon as possible after. It is important, however, that it is a well-developed work programme, which addresses the priorities we are discussing today. The other is that a number of things will certainly come before the summer. The I Strategy roadmaps will come before the summer. So that's in the course of next week. The same applies to the topic of cloud policy. So some of these pieces are coming up next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	Okay, because the Secretary of State just said it's gonna be after the summer. Did I understand correctly that she just said that the delay in the work agenda, the drafting of the outline letter, is actually because this debate is always moving forward in the planning process?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	What I think is important is that... we have this debate on the broad lines, in which many of you have also highlighted which topics you consider important. If we are to produce a work programme, I think it is of course important that we take into account the issues which the Chamber wishes to put in the front or to see further details. I will come back to that in a moment in my contribution to you. So, as far as I am concerned, that is one of the reasons why we have not yet completed a work agenda, at least. I think it is important to take what you think and what you think is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	I find it a little complicated that it is being said now: there will be a work programme; you will receive it and you will see what we are going to do. For then, we will be left with good intentions, but we do not know what, for example, is the balance of values that this government wants to make when it comes to the importance of the economy or, for example, civil rights. Is that in the work agenda, or is it purely about what is happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	We have made it very clear in the main letter that we consider human rights and these fundamental values to be incredibly important in shaping our policies. But then the question is, of course, what it actually looks like. How, for example, will these human rights tests play a role in algorithms? How are we going to ensure that, in the implementation of e-identity policies, for example, we also implement the safeguards that are so important? So, as far as I am concerned, this is particularly about the fact that human rights and fundamental rights in the field of transparency, which are also enshrined in our Constitution, are at the forefront of our policy. That is in this main letter, and that is beyond question as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	I said in my term that I do not really see the weighting of values in that outline letter, nor in the coalition agreement. Nor do I see it in the legislative proposals that we have dealt with over the last few months, when it comes to, for example, protecting people from a government that profils and makes automatic decision-making. So I find it very difficult. What is going to be in the work programme on what we are asking for in terms of vision? If this cabinet says "economics for everything; privacy must wait a while," then we can differ on that and maybe we can change it. But if this cabinet continues to say "we think everything is important and we continue to manage a bit in between," then we do not have that fundamental debate. Does the Secretary of State know what I mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	I understand very well that you say that you could put that against each other. In this outline letter we indicate that in that digital world, in that transition, we have lost a number of fundamental guarantees and human rights, for example the fact that your data can be sold or passed on, or that there is insufficient clarity about how algorithms work, not only in the government, but also in the private sector. That can also have disastrous consequences, namely that you are sent all kinds of information that tries to push your opinion in a certain direction. That's exactly what we want to talk about. So we don't want to say: we're going to stop making it possible for there to be all kinds of new developments in this digital society. For example, you can very well improve healthcare with algorithms. Think, for example, of recognizing skin cancer. But we also want to ensure that that happens in a safe way, that your data and identity remain protected, that it happens in a non-discriminatory way. I think we have put that kind of framework conditions more than explicitly in this letter, because we also consider it so important. So yes, of course there are nice developments. We don't want to fight them at all. In fact, if they help to make our society better, we want to stimulate them. But we find it incredibly important that these fundamental rights are guaranteed. We are not only working on this in our work in Europe, which is also the subject of a great deal of attention, but we are also doing so here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	While we are talking about the work agenda and what it should look like, it is fine to continue talking about value scales and so on, but not in a work agenda as far as I am concerned. What the VVD likes to see in that work agenda is not even more letter and even more text, but an agenda for what will come when, a little nicely displayed, so that we can easily find it and understand it. But we have a coalition agreement. We have also received a vision from the cabinet, which I think counts twenty pages. The VVD would therefore like to take the step towards concreteisation in the work agenda. So I'd like to give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you for that, because that is precisely what we are going to do, namely to indicate what we are going to do, based on the values we set out in the main letter. Then there were a number of questions from Mrs Leijten and Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz on the budget. They are about how we are now making sure that there is an insight into the spending that we as a Empire are doing in the area of digitalisation. These expenditures are substantial, as some of you have indicated. This is not just about starting up new projects or making new systems, but of course also about ensuring that we can use management and maintenance properly on the systems we already have, deploy innovations and so on, and so on. We have taken a number of steps in recent times. Of course, departmental budgets fall under the ministerial responsibility of every trade minister, but I understand the desire you have to gain more insight very well. We will work on this on a number of fronts. First of all, we think it is important to include these financial guidelines in the multiannual information plans, which each ministry will make and which will be published for the first time on the second Wednesday of November. These plans contain a financial paragraph, which makes the digitisation exercise of the various policy areas understandable. Furthermore, we are going to make an overall analysis of this. That's what my ministry will do. It is also intended that the various digital elements, i.e. the components of the departmental budgets, should be further mapped out. Together with the departments, but also with my colleague in the finance department, I am investigating how these costs can gradually be made more visible in the budgets. Then there is the discussion that I will continue with my colleague from EZK, who is sitting next to me, on the Wörsdörfer motion, which was mainly about spending on the digital economy. This has already been shared with your Chamber in the context of the Dutch Digitisation Strategy. This is without prejudice to the fact that we want to take a number of further steps in the coming period. Moreover, for the big projects we already have that site, that dashboard for the large routes. I would be interested to hear more from your Chamber about what specific elements you would like to see in such a financial overview. Quite a lot of thought could be given to the fact that it is mainly about personnel costs, management and maintenance, or new projects. Of course, we can map those kinds of elements, but you might also be looking for other parts. Then I'd be interested to hear more about that from your room as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	The main point is that the information can be found everywhere, but it is not clear. Last year we tried to make some kind of digital ICT budget out of all those departmental budgets. It then comes to the 5.7 billion in ICT systems, but it also reveals, for example, that almost one billion is spent on external hiring. If you see that, then of course we and the government can say together: how are we going to solve this with, for example, structural own forces, so that we do not have to hire it expensively? Behind that hire can of course also be something, for example too little knowledge. But this also applies to investments in, for example, health care and innovation, which the Minister talked about. I remember when I was a care spokesperson that there were really a lot of resources going there from VWS. But there was actually not a good overview of the investments from all departments in new ICT techniques, or they were not good to add. There are now funds in the National Growth Fund that are about the digital economy. It would be nice if we could get that together in order to see if we think the priorities are right. Do ministries without knowing each other well do things twice or could you pool things together, giving you faster and perhaps better products for that new digital economy? I would certainly like to see that. I understand that there is responsibility for the budget by department, but it would really help us if we were given that overview, even under the coordination of the Secretary of State, because the government makes that coordination, that mirror, and then looks at whether we are not doing things twice, with the very best intentions, by the way. The same investments as in VWS, we might also be doing with the Defense Department. So it's like, come on, we're gonna work together for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	That's a very good point. The first steps we have taken concern, for example, the major projects we bring together as a whole government. I'll have to see exactly how we're gonna do that, but I get your point very well. It is about trajectories, management and maintenance and so on. Making it clear is very important. As you rightly said, it is about a considerable amount of human resources and commitment. So providing more insight into that is also what we would like to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	Very briefly, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	You know, Mr. President, it would be a great pleasure if we could avoid motions. But what exactly do we agree on? The secretary of state is talking about: you will get something on the second Wednesday of November. Then we are already in the budgetary cycle. So how does that relate to discussing budgets? But when would you then have such an overview...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	When could the Secretary of State send such an overview to us? Could that be something at Prince's Day so we can see how things can be better on the next Prince's Day? Well, I'd appreciate it if we could get a fix on how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	The realism of an ongoing budget means that the plans in November will be the first set-up that we can work on this year. As far as I am concerned, working towards the next budget, we can take a more detailed look at supplementing it, because I think that could be very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	It is very nice that the Secretary of State wants to send those plans to the Chamber, including financial information, along with an overall analysis that we, as the Committee on Digital Affairs, are also very interested in. Then there's the question of what else we want. In our discussion with the General Court of Auditors on the annual reports, we made a number of recommendations on what should be included in order to clarify the priorities, including the amount of money spent on algorithms. I'd like to suggest to the Secretary of State to take that power point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	I'd love to take a look at that. I can't exactly report it, because I think that's kind of tricky. But at least we can try to find out. Then I'm ready for the AI and data block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	First, Mr Bontenball.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	I am still puzzled by the answer given by the Secretary of State to Mrs Leijten's question. I didn't think that was a very clear answer. Is there going to be a general overview or some kind of overview? That doesn't have to be perfect right away, but it does have to be something of an overview on the main lines. I understand you're getting that from other budgets, but what can we expect from product?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	The product you can expect is that an information plan will be drawn up per department, so what our plans are and therefore the corresponding expenditure that we want to do in the future in our policy area. We make an overview and an addition. That is what I would like to do. We already have a number of things, big projects, for example. I am going to try to pool as much information as possible on this, so that you also have the best possible overview. I am not trying to do more difficult than I want to do here, but I do not want to promise something I cannot do, because I understand very well the need that Mrs Leijten has and that you have: can we get a little more insight into what the government is spending in this area, whether it is about staff, projects, management and maintenance of systems, etc. etc.? But that will also have to be a bit of a growth path.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	It is perfectly understandable that it should become a growth path. One more check question, though. So will we be able to get that information in time so that we can use it in the budget treatment that we have been using as Digital Affairs? That would be my preference. We've been on the road for over a year now. If we're gonna lose this fall, it's gonna add up a little bit. That would complete the promise for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	I am going to ask my collaborators to see if that is exactly how it fits in with the budgetary procedure, so I am happy to return to that in the second term. Then to artificial intelligence and data. There was a question from Mrs Bouchallichh and Mr Van Baarle about the algorithm monitor that is to come. We also announced this in the coalition agreement. It has also been arranged that there is a budget for the Personal Data Authority to carry out these tasks. The intention is to have this design around by the end of this year, so that in 2023 this supervisor can also be set up. The aim is therefore to link this role, on algorithms, not only of the government but also of the private sector, with the other regulators, the Authority Consumer and Market and the Telecom Agency, to make sure that it is clear who is doing which parts in the area of algorithm monitoring, which type of algorithms it is necessary to do, in order to properly organise that supervision and that it is knowledge and skills for the AP and possibly others. So that's what we're doing. At the end of this year there will be more information about what our ideas are about the establishment. Of course, we are also looking very closely at our international framework, because this AI-EU regulation, the EU's artificial intelligence regulation, contains, of course, elements about the monitoring of algorithms and not just what requirements they should meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State moved on so quickly to the next block that I got up just too late. Just a few more moments on the work agenda. I'm sitting there thinking if I'm crazy and completely misunderstood. I've been looking at the government website. It was published on 8 March last year. It said: In the coming months, the main lines of the letter will be further developed in a cabinet-wide work agenda digitisation. Today is not the first time we've faced each other. We've discussed this before. I didn't know better than the Secretary of State and her officials were working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	I thought it would be nice if that were to go to our future for this debate, then we could discuss it. I now hear that it is actually still, waiting for this debate to take place. I would have preferred to know that sooner, because then we might have been able to table a committee debate so that we could give our input earlier. Now we're losing months again. And we've been waiting so long. I'm very sorry to hear that. At what point have we not understood each other correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u30	One thing that's clear is that it's definitely not still. But on such an agenda it is important to hold the main debate and to hear your Chamber's opinion on the elements of it. In an interdepartmental context, not only from the Interior, but also from other departments, we are working hard on making this agenda. It will contain a very concrete picture of what we are all going to do in the coming period, what planning is included and so on and so forth. There are several elements in it and we're going to have them come to you after the summer. Of course it would have been very nice if we had finished it all, but unfortunately that is not the case. But it's not like we didn't do anything: we've been working hard to work out those themes that I was talking about, so for example, how these algorithms are going to work, what we're going to do with identity and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u31	It's very nice that the Secretary of State wants to take our input into this. I would also very much like to provide good input. But it would have been helpful if we had already received some sort of draft work agenda. Of course, we won't hold the Secretary of State to that, but how are we supposed to help and provide input if we don't see anything? Because the main lines are really super-vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u32	In any case, you have already helped with your contribution, namely by identifying the elements that you consider important in the coming period. We'd love to get to work on that. Many of you have done so in terms of identity, accessibility, values and so on. We are happy to include these elements in the work programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u33	I would also like to come back to that implementation agenda. Thank you for that. We have asked about the sustainability aspects and their emission aspects. That fits in perfectly with all the other government plans. In the Compatibility Act 3.1, too, it goes in the direction of what is the impact on the climate. I would therefore like to have that commitment. I have one more question, but I'll save it for a while. First, the Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u34	Very good. My colleague from Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs is certainly going to say something about that. The point you made was clear, as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u35	Thank you. It's nice to have that back. The other question is about the algorithms and AI. Municipalities and libraries, for example, are working on algorithms. Fortunately, the VNG is very active on this. I can imagine that that should actually apply to every level of government. Is this also addressed in the agenda that is being drawn up? If not, it's a tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u36	Sure. We've made a few promises. Questions have also been asked about when there are. We said a few things. Number one is that it is important that we set frameworks for algorithms: what can you use them for, what data may be in it and so on and so forth. That's what we do in the Netherlands. We do that in a European context. We are also working on this with the municipalities very much. Municipalities themselves have very good ideas about this, as you say. Next, it is about ensuring that monitoring is organised and that there is a register of the algorithms that are in use. For everyone, it has to be clear how that works. I shall come back to this in a moment to the questions that have been asked. I've been talking about the supervisor. Then I'm going to the next topic. This concerns the obligation of the human rights test within the framework of artificial intelligence and the EU's plea to combat discrimination. That point was made by Mrs Bouchallichh. He wants to ask you something first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u37	Yes, he has another question about the previous point. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u38	Yes, I was just waiting. So we're not going to talk about the Dutch Data Protection Authority anymore. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u39	Not in principle, except for the question about the funding you have asked. I believe he's coming. Shall I do it right away? Shall we? Well, I guess that's it. At the heart of the matter is that this cabinet in the coalition agreement has not only indicated the importance of monitoring algorithms. The so-called 'Algorithm Watchdog' is being set up, which will, by the way, be equipped not only on the basis of what we consider important, but also on the basis of European policy in this area. It is also important to see how the other supervisors play a role in this. Of course, resources have also been made available for this. In addition, the Personal Data Authority has also been given additional resources to ensure that they can better carry out their other tasks, the tasks they already have. That is what I would like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u40	I just wanted to make sure the block was finished. I missed the answer to a question that I believe has also been asked by Mr Van Ginneken. The question was whether the additional tasks assigned to the AP are fairly regular. The statement of the AP itself states that growth of the AP is necessary for the protection of citizens in the digitalising Netherlands. There's only gonna be jobs. I have experienced this in the debate with this Secretary of State, but also with others. I am concerned that the funds allocated do not appear to be sufficient, but that we do not have the frameworks to test them. Can the Secretary of State or another govern ment explain how they measure to what extent the task package still fits the allocated resources and how the Chamber can check whether that works?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u41	That question is very clear and answered by the Minister of Justice and Security. Mr. Chairman. I shall return to another question. It was about the mandatory human rights test. We discussed this with each other in an earlier debate. The aim is to include EU legislation on artificial intelligence, human rights and discrimination as an element in the EU framework, for example in the AI Act. If this can play a role, it will also be tested in those high-risk systems. We'll make sure that happens. If that is not the case, we will look further at it in a national context. Our directive on algorithms, which has been announced in our I strategy, will be important for the tests we are going to do ourselves. That is where the so-called 'human rights test' called 'IAMA', which is also known as 'the 'non-discrimination clause', plays an important role. So the essence is that we want to record this. You have also pointed out in previous debates that you consider this to be incredibly important. That's what we think. That is what we are going to take into account in this regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u42	Since it is about European regulation, I have the following question. I can also imagine that another ruler will answer this question. It is about Commissioner Johansson's proposal to remove the end-to-end encryption of certain applications, so that investigative services can use it, while, of course, that is a basic right of the user. I wonder what the position of the Dutch Government is in this regard. Is she working on that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u43	That's very good. That is indeed a subject for Minister Adriaansens. He'll go into that further. I will go to the point about municipalities, discrimination and what we can do to stop it. That was a question from GroenLinks and DENK. It is clear, of course, that discrimination is prohibited, that it should not be and that discrimination should not therefore be used in algorithms. At present, municipalities are, of course, responsible for complying with the law themselves, and the city council must supervise this. What we consider important and where European regulation is not only important is that municipalities also comply with the law and that it is clear what should and should not be done. The aim is, of course, to carry out these human rights tests on algorithms, both in terms of discrimination and other subjects. I am very active, along with the municipalities, in doing so. In fact, municipalities are also very active in ensuring that algorithms or risk models, if they use them, meet all the requirements already in force in Dutch law. At European level, we are very committed to this. That was also one of the questions asked. That is what we are doing, for example, with those regulations on artificial intelligence and, not least, with the work done by the Council of Europe to also make a treaty in the field of artificial intelligence. The intention is, of course, that the regulator, the AP, when this legislation comes soon, will also play a role, namely as the authority that is not only there for the Government, but also for local authorities and the private sector to test for algorithms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u44	Thanks to the Secretary of State. I have often asked how she can do more with the municipalities. Unfortunately, I saw again in the newspaper that municipalities are not working on this optimally. I understand that, in a way, there is a limit to the power and responsibility of the Secretary of State. However, I am very concerned, especially if one such newspaper report shows that a municipality says "we are not going to stop doing this," and even if research by Rathenau shows that there is not enough knowledge and responsibility is felt. Perhaps it is difficult to influence that responsibility from here, but can the Secretary of State do something about the knowledge that apparently is not sufficiently present at municipal level? How can it contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u45	We already do. Let me be clear: the newspaper report to which you refer is, of course, totally out of order. If algorithms and risk models have been detected for some time, they should not be applied. That's something I want to be very active with. We are actively engaged in discussions with the municipalities on this subject. The municipalities themselves have also developed ethical codes and things like that, to ensure that they move forward. At the moment there is no handle to do more with it, other than that we now want to set it up with, for example, the regulator of algorithms. He's gonna see if they're gonna obey the law, even in congregations. Of course, the local council also plays an important role in this. Our Personal Data Authority will also represent a strong function in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u46	The score cards are based on that SyRI system. That was rejected by the judge when it was deployed in Rotterdam. It is still being deployed, while the government has said: do not use it anymore. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u47	That is a good question to ask the relevant municipalities. It's very clear that it's not allowed. My understanding, by the way, is that it is no longer being used at the moment. We are trying to set up supervision to ensure that it does not happen again. In the end, it is also up to the local council and the municipality to remain vigilant. I agree with you that, of course, this should not be possible. It's against the law, and you shouldn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u48	I think that referring a people's representative in this Parliament to municipal councils is a real weakness. The SyRI system affects fundamental rights. It was adopted here in the House of Representatives, but we have not seen any of that. The SP didn't see it either. Data sharing and profiling affect fundamental rights. It has been declared unlawful and unlawful by the court. I would then think that the government, which has made this possible by means of a law, when the weed is going to track down the municipalities, is going to encourage them and impose them not to use it anymore, because we are breaking the law. Then you can't say "go to the city councils in the province of Utrecht"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u49	Everything you say has happened. Let us be clear about it: it has been stated that this is no longer possible. It is clear that this was also stated by the judge. The incentive is also done. We are now going to make national legislation with each other, based on international legislation, namely that of the EU, to make sure that what is and is not allowed in the area of algorithms is clear. We also set up a supervisor. That is incredibly important to me to ensure that algorithms that do not meet the requirements we impose on each other can no longer be used. This applies not only to the public sector, but also to the private sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u50	I'm starting to worry more and more about the quality of the government's screening. It was in a debate with this Secretary of State that we had to find out on-going that the BRP was discriminated against. That didn't even come out of the State Department's screening at the time. Part of that review was the setting up of a list of municipalities to ask them if they used discriminatory, controversial fraud lists. Now journalists have to find out that this was still being applied. What does that say about the quality of that screening? As far as the DENK Group is concerned, we have come to the point that everything is wrong with that screening. I'd almost call this secretary of state: we need to re-evaluate it. If journalists need to find out that this is happening, what's the point of this screening?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u51	Perhaps it would be a good idea to separate the responsibilities that we have in the Netherlands in our democracy. The screening that we are doing, which, by the way, emerged in the debate on the National Approach Address Quality, is about an algorithm that we used that did not meet the requirements. That is what we exchanged in the debate. Luckily, that hasn't been used in a long time. The other point is that we want algorithms that are used in the Netherlands by the government to be central government and local authorities to meet requirements that we believe should be met by private institutions. That is why we need to legislate. We need to ensure that real thought is given to how we are going to do this at European level. Some algorithms are not made in the Netherlands, but are used here. Then we are talking about the question of how to monitor it. Of course, it's incredibly important that we set that up properly. We want that to become the role of the AP. The mapping of what we do at the state government is an ongoing process. You know that. We're working hard on that. Your Chamber has also received a technical briefing on this matter. All departments have been asked to analyse which algorithms they use, on what basis that is and, of course, whether there are potential problems in terms of human rights or discrimination, for example. We're doing the inventory now. Some of it is already being completed. Some of it will come to you before the summer. That is to make sure that what is going on is mapped out, on the basis of a motion from you and from Mrs Marijnissen, and that it is clearly mapped out how that works. Before you ask this question, I would like to say the following. Your motion on whether that can still be tested externally has not been passed in this Chamber. Nevertheless, I have indicated that I would very much like another test to be taken. I asked the ADR to prepare the work for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u52	Part of this review was: we ask municipalities whether they use fraud lists or risk models which may lead to discrimination. That's what the VNG did. We have received a report on this. If it turns out that a whole bunch of municipalities still use lists of this kind, they have to find out about it, and if we as a Chamber have not been able to get that from the VNG's questionnaire, then something went wrong with that screening. My compelling appeal in the direction of this Secretary of State would be: do that again, ask again for all the municipalities and ask more precisely what they use or do not use, in order to get that over the table. A reference to municipal councils, a reference to local authorities, I find too easy when it comes to discrimination. Discrimination is against the law. Is the Secretary of State prepared to agree to do that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u53	I'd like to dive into that. This is, by the way, a different matter from the inventory from the motion we were talking about. It was definitely about the government. I'd be happy to return to that in second term. By the way, I think it is good to talk about the fact that I am not just referring to the local council. Of course they play an important role. We are in the process of making national and international regulations which also regulate this at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u54	That was a comprehensive answer. I understand there's always nuances and so on. But if an investigation reveals that such a system is being used, that a number of municipalities still use such a system that is discriminatory. But I can imagine that you, as Secretary of State, will make a phone call to that municipality and say that it may be the responsibility of the municipality, but this is not allowed. Either you give a warning or you talk about this. Surely it cannot be that we live in the Netherlands in a country where we say together "I am not responsible for this" if we know that discriminatory systems are being used? That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u55	No, I agree. Fortunately, these municipalities no longer use these systems. That's a partnership of a number of municipalities, I believe three. So that's good news. If I'd known they were still using it, I would have. Of course, I feel responsible for this; not least that is why we want to regulate it at national level. That is why I added that to the answer to Mr Van Baarle's question. I would like to continue answering the other questions. Mr Van Baarle asked about the implementation of the Marijnissen motion. I just said something about that. Those analyses and inventories are currently under way. An external test has been carried out by the Audit Service Rijk at one Ministry, namely Social Affairs. My request is to see if we can apply it more broadly. I hope to be able to discuss this with you in the early autumn. Mr Van Haga asked to what extent far-reaching powers under international law increase the likelihood of data being misused and what controls there are. These international regulations and legislation, such as the Digital Markets Act and the Digital Services Act, as well as future directives on artificial intelligence and algorithms, are, of course, there to strengthen the position of citizens and end-users vis-à-vis online platforms, in order to ensure that civil rights are used and enforced. It is very important for us that this happens and that values such as privacy and autonomy, the right to be forgotten, for example, are used. That is why we attach so much importance to these agreements at European level, not least because the platforms we are talking about work much wider than in the Netherlands alone. I am therefore not so afraid of what Mr Van Haga says, namely: will we not have a control state? We're aiming at the opposite. We want citizens to be able to use these platforms in a safe manner, where their data are not simply sold out, they do not get information they are not waiting for, or their human rights are otherwise harmed. Mrs Dekker asked about the mandatory disclosure of algorithms, that algorithm registry with which we are working. We have made a first start, but before the end of the year we really want that set up, so that what is in it is clear. Of course, it is important that we take the different elements of these algorithms with us. So we not only describe that there is something like an algorithm, but also how it works, what data is used in it, on what basis those data are used and so on and so forth. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to move on to the block of disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yes. First Mrs. Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u57	I just have two more questions about the algorithm registry. When does the Secretary of State expect to be about done with this or at least have a version that can be consulted publicly? My second question is this. I had asked in my contribution whether there should simply be a legal framework of policies based on algorithms. Shouldn't that be in laws or publicly traceable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u58	We are trying to see if we can set it up, in line with what we are trying to achieve in Europe, because we are trying to do so in parallel. At the end of the year, we want to provide more insight into that register. I cannot say that the whole register will be complete and complete, but we would like to take a few steps in the coming months to make sure that register becomes transparent. There is already a very small test on algorithmregister.nl, but it mainly refers to the algorithm registers of local authorities, among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr Van Baarle has just come to this point and we are really going to move on to the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u60	The Secretary of State has already made a commitment to make matters that need to be done in order to prevent discrimination in algorithms binding a while ago in response to our questions. In my speech, I asked the Secretary of State if she had any idea how she would like to do that. We now have the manual non-discrimination by design, but DENK is a bit done with that hand-to-hand policy. Now we just have to agree that it happens, both in the government and in companies. I don't feel like waiting much longer. Can the Secretary of State, therefore, promise that we will simply get a bill here soon in which this can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u61	I am still thinking about what is the best method for this and whether we should do so from a European perspective and whether we should include some of it in national legislation. But I'd be happy to tell you that I'll get back to you soon. For I agree with you that here is the adage: where there is a will, there is a way, and where there is no will, there is a law. So we really need to look carefully at how this is being applied, so that this is prevented. I hope to get back to you on that as soon as possible. I think that is best done within the framework of the work programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u62	Look, we've been waiting so long for this. This commitment was made a long time ago. I would like this to be made more urgent. Nor do I think that reference to European legislation is sufficient, because it is simply not sufficiently concrete in this respect. There are some nice principles in that, but no concrete guarantees. So why doesn't this Secretary of State simply take responsibility by saying: I'm just putting the concrete handles of these hand-outs into a law? Then it's clear to the government and to companies what to do. What's the objection to doing that as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u63	There is no objection at all to rushing, but we must also do it well and carefully. I'm working on that. I've already indicated that I'll get back to that soon. The principles for algorithms apply now, of course, even though I think that is also important when it comes to human rights and non-discrimination. That does not require a law, because we already have the GDPR, the ban on discrimination, etc., etc. Well, that's true anyway. But it is important that we also do it in a smart way, so that we achieve what you and I want to achieve together, namely that there is no discrimination and that there are no algorithms and risk models that take people out based on their background or any characteristics. Once again, I shall come back quickly to what we consider to be the best steps to achieve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u64	I have a question that is actually covered by the subject. But I have to go to another debate in a moment, and since I don't know how it's gonna work out in time, I'm gonna ask you my question. I'm curious about the tender process for that sample wallet. Has the Ministry of the Interior made any agreements or recommendations to specific parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u65	I don't think that question is in my folder, but I'd like to get back to that. I cannot answer that question for you at this time. As far as I know, we have not yet made any tenders in this area. But if that is the case, I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u66	The tendering process is open and ends on 22 July. I was wondering if the Ministry had any involvement in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u67	I take it those tenders run the way they do. I do not have an answer to that at the moment. You are actually asking for two things, namely whether we are interfering and whether we have a preferential party. I'm going to answer those questions for you in the second term. I will continue with the issue of disinformation, on which several questions have been asked. I shall begin with Mrs Rajkowski's question on our actions against disinformation. It is incredibly important that we continue on this subject. All kinds of actions have already been taken. The former Minister of Foreign Affairs was already working on a policy strategy to address disinformation on behalf of the previous cabinet and the current Minister of Foreign Affairs is now working on it. That is much wider than the protection of our democracy. It is not just a question of elections being organised properly, but also of preventing people from receiving information that, for example, deliberately influences elections or actually leads to polarisation or hate-sowing. We must continue these actions. What are we doing? We are certainly working on it at European level, and we have also drawn up a code of conduct that has recently been renewed, which includes a number of themes, such as making it more difficult to make money from disinformation, ensuring that fact-checking is developed and, above all, extended in all EU Member States and combating manipulative behaviour, for example by tackling fake accounts, deep-fakes and bot networks in common. That is, moreover, a job that companies have to do. That's not government work, but that's what companies do. They'll have to report on that, too. Those are the big online platforms that signed this code. This is, of course, a very important step forward, but we want to continue to follow it. Moreover, this code of conduct, which is still voluntary and is now signed by a number of large networks, will be incorporated into the Digital Services Act in the near future. Mrs Rajkowski also asked whether we could talk to social media about disinformation and whether we could do so together with the European Commission. We'd be happy to. There is also a lot of discussion on this subject, of course with the European Commission, but certainly also with different platforms about their work in this area. For example, I myself recently had a conversation with Meta. This was not only about their work to ensure that their social media platform Facebook meets the requirements that apply to it in accordance with the agreed code or conduct, but also about how they want to use it in, for example, one of the new technologies they want to manifest themselves in, the so-called metaverse, an immersive technology that makes it possible to communicate with each other in another way. Mrs Bouchallichh has asked about the commitment to political advertisements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u68	Before you move on to the next subject, I have one more question. Glad to hear that a policy strategy is being worked on. When are you coming to the Chamber with that? And you can promise...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u69	And the Secretary of State can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u70	Can the Secretary of State undertake to include the issue of education, that of thinking critically from an early age and that of skills? That's where it starts, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u71	Yeah, we sure can. We, the Minister for the Interior and myself, will come back together on this subject in the autumn, in the broad sense of the word: what should we do to combat disinformation? There is also the theme of how we can make people resistant to this issue in situations where it is not possible to combat disinformation sufficiently, to ensure that people are also more aware of what is going on there. By the way, we already have several programmes for this. This is also being further worked on. In the letter we will discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u72	Finally, Mr Rajkowski.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u73	Yeah, I got another one, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for that commitment. My second point was indeed about getting information to the Netherlands. Yesterday we had a debate on the intelligence and security services. That's where I brought this point. Big techs now share disinformation and further threat information with NATO or the European Commission but not with the Netherlands. We would really like that information in the Netherlands too, because this is an information war via the digital road that is also aimed at the Netherlands. Could the Secretary of State make an effort to ensure that the Netherlands receives information through this Code of Practice on Disinformation and everything she signs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u74	I would very much like to look at the possibilities, because the theme that is playing is incredibly important. We know that around the war in Ukraine a lot of disinformation is being used as an offensive strategy, you might say, to a lot of parties. This also applies to all the bots and deep fakes and so on and so on and so on. We want to gather as much information as possible on this so that we and our services can work on it. As far as I am concerned, that is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mrs Van Weerdenburg also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u76	I was wondering if the Secretary of State could tell us something more concrete about the fact-checking obligation for social media platforms, such as Twitter, Facebook and so on. How are they supposed to do that fact-checking concretely?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u77	What European legislation says in this area is that these very large platforms, for example, should make sure that they monitor what is happening on their platform. One very important thing they have to do is make sure that everything that is illegal is removed as much as possible. Then, for example, it's about child pornography or other things that are illegal. The second is that they need to monitor what happens on their platforms, for example when it comes to disinformation. So I am talking about the very conscious use of mechanisms via social media to ensure that there is destabilization in a society, whether it is based on political information or otherwise. When it comes to fact-checking, they are asked to do so by institutions that can do so for them. That's also being monitored. So, in line with European legislation, they are also being tested: is this happening and are they doing it right? Fact-checking does not mean that something necessarily disappears if that is not true according to the fact-checkers. This applies only to criminal information, such as child pornography. But there is a label that says that there are other sources that say something different about this information. For example, reference can be made to a site of a government, a research institute or something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u78	Okay. As a PVV'er I can expect a sticker on my tweets from now on. It says: "Watch out, this is the opinion of a minority or whatever." Just so we're clear, things that aren't allowed offline shouldn't be online either. That's where we can find each other. Especially in the second part the PVV is very concerned, because that is actually fact-checking on opinions. The social media platforms are not going to do that themselves, but they have to let institutions do that. That really sounds like some kind of ministry of truth. Which institutions should do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u79	Social media platforms can ask different groups to do so. They could be scientists. They could be people like Bellingcat. It's journalists' platforms and so on, and so on. They can do that. Next, the social media platform may ask them to refer to other types of information. I now move on to the point about the stakes on the political ads. GroenLinks asked a question about that. By the way, political advertisements are a subject that my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, deals with. The essence is that political advertisements are possible in accordance with the European regulations that we have on them. It is important, however, that safeguards apply. There's got to be some clarity about who owns that ad and who's behind it. It has to be clear that it's an ad. It is necessary to indicate the type of elections and so on, and so on, and so on. That is also the line we are now following. But once again, I think it is good to discuss this further with my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because here we are working nationally on the Law on Political Parties, which also includes those advertisements. Then about the election evaluation in the field of disinformation, also a question from GroenLinks. We have now carried out the evaluation of the last Lower House elections. It also looked at the subject of disinformation. In June last year, a letter was sent to your Chamber. The evaluation of the last municipal elections will be completed in the coming weeks and will also be sent to your Chamber. That element of disinformation also plays a role in this. What we can already indicate is that there are no indications that large-scale disinformation campaigns have taken place in the Lower House elections or in the municipal elections. Then there is Mr Ceder's question as to whether there can be a separate letter to the Chamber about the public values that we want to assert within the digital world. I understand the point Mr Ceder is making about this. It might also be good to refer back to a code that we created, the code of good digital governance that was sent to the Chamber last year, in the context of a letter about algorithms and their progress. It also takes into account the different values that we take into account in the debate. They are classified under democracy, the rule of law and the power of administration. They are about non-discrimination, about freedom of expression, about privacy, about transparency, and so on, and so on. I think it is good to include the link with the values in that work agenda, but that letter has gone a little further on this issue. I also believe that you yourself specifically mentioned the subject of mercy. That is not literally what it says, but inclusiveness and ensuring that everyone can come along with it are, of course, issues that play a very important role in the values that we use as a cabinet. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I would like to continue with the block of inclusion and citizenship. This concerns the issue of digital accessibility, a subject that Mr Bontenbal has also mentioned and which he has asked a question about, namely that, if we want people to be able to participate in our society, we must ensure that people with disabilities, including those with visual disabilities, have access to the digital infrastructure. That's exactly what we want. The agreement that has been made is that people who have a disability in their job can simply use digital information and services. To this end, a European directive has also been published. We have transposed them to Dutch law, in the Temporary Decree digital accessibility government. This means that governments, in the broad sense of the word, are obliged to provide digital information in services via websites and mobile apps. There is also the European Accessibility Act, which should ensure, for example, that various products, such as self-service terminals, passenger transport, banking services, web shops, etc., are accessible. Now it is certainly important that we continue to work on this, because we also know that it is not yet perfectly organized. That is one of the points that has been mentioned. In fact, there are apps and websites, including from the government, which are still not properly regulated. We will also pay a great deal of attention to this in the coming period. Because we know, apart from people with visual impairment or otherwise, that about 20% of Dutch people are not sufficiently digitally skilled and otherwise unable to participate in our society, and cannot provide them with the good help of the government. The second part also deals with a question raised by Mr Ceder on digital accessibility. It takes a lot to work on that. We have a dashboard in which we try to map which websites and apps may or may not have such an accessibility statement. Again, I would like to focus more on this and certainly also under the Digital Government Act to see whether that should be more explicitly laid down. I also think it is important to add something to that which we have also exchanged before, namely that it should always be possible for people who are not digitally skilled enough or who do not feel safe or good about it, to do things, even in the context of doing business with the government, offline, so just in the normal, physical domain. In this context, I would also like to return to Mr Bontenbal's question on technological citizenship. What do we do to make sure that people can take as much as possible? So we also do this by making sure that both children and people who are older are helped as well as possible to become digitally skilled if they are not already. We do that through City Deals and through the Alliance Digital Collaboration. We also work with a lot of people. By now, there are some 325,000 subscribers on the website of the Alliance Digital Collaboration and of products that the Alliance Digital Collaboration uses. But, of course, we will continue to work on this, for example in education. For example, our colleague Dennis Wiersma at the Ministry of Education in the curriculum indicated that digital skills are very important in education. Then it's not just about code and being able to deal with computers, but also about media skills. In our work programme, we will also develop this further, not least by continuing with the Digital Government Information Points, which are available in all libraries and where people who have problems doing business with the government or other parties in the digital domain can go with questions and for help. We would also like to see further development in the coming period. Then I get to the questions that are a little bit more in the other block. Then I will begin with the questions I have received from Mr Jansen about digital identity and the wallet. I think it is very important to point out that the very principles which Mr Jansen considers so important, namely that you do not need to use such a European digital identity and that it should not provide some sort of cumulation of data with the European Union, are all guaranteed. It is therefore quite possible and remains possible, even if there is a wallet, to continue to live your life without that wallet and to continue to take services, both with the government and otherwise. As far as the information you collect in such a wallet is concerned, it is also so important that you have control of it first of all and so you can choose what you record, but also that that information remains with the service providers for which that information is collected, for example with your passport or your driving licence. The idea of this identity is not to create a social credit system or to control behavior. It's not all that. It is mainly meant to ensure that we have as little data as possible from everyone in many places; remember, for example, that you have to leave your passport in copy in a hotel abroad. Well, then all that doesn't have to be anymore. Then it's just enough to put a check mark. So it's about data minimizement, the safe handling of data and the way you're able to do business very easily, without everyone knowing more about you than is necessary. Thus, it may also be possible to buy alcohol with your wallet, just on the basis of the check mark indicating that you are older than a certain age, or to rent a car with a check mark indicating that you have a valid driver's license, without that whole driving licence, whether or not in copy, going to a car rental company somewhere within or outside national borders. Then there is the question that Mr Ceder asked about that wallet. Before I conclude on this point, I would also like to say the following. Others have also asked questions about what should or should not be the basis of that identity. So that also applies that what we exchanged earlier was taken by us. Among other things, Mr Ceder and also in a motion asked whether we could ensure that the European Union does not exist. We also introduced that into the Telecoms Council. My colleague Adriaansens and I have been there. We have objected to this. I have now understood that it is now also intended to disappear, because there are more Member States who do not think this is a good idea. Then there will be no single European bsn number, which your Chamber did not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u80	That digital identity is to be able to identify you. We have had a long debate on this. It is also clear where the House of Representatives stands: you have to make this possible with decentralised storage, with only data needed for that identification and, above all, it should not become a data storage of those 450 million European residents. The Forum for Democracy was very clear about the fact that an app is being built and that those data are being stored. What exactly does it mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u81	I wouldn't know, because that app isn't being made, as far as I know. Nor does it say in European legislation that something is being produced using all the data of all European residents or people living in the European Union. The idea is to make it per country, to do it on a decentralised basis, for example via DigiD in the Netherlands, so that information about your person is very well protected and only made available if you want it, and then in a way that minimizes as much data as possible. So I would not know where that came from, because it is neither our wish nor the desire of the European Union to collect the data of all citizens together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u82	Okay, so that online identity is for ID, if you want it, because you don't have to. It remains possible to do it offline. But are there not data from European citizens collected by the European Commission to carry out all kinds of analyses? This is, of course, also a fear expressed here by several people, that these data are collected and applied and are also paid for, as Mrs von der Leyen said. So that's not gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u83	No, there is not going to be a European database containing all the data of all EU citizens, and not at all anything that makes them money. We're certainly not going to cooperate in that, if that were a concern. It is precisely the intention that no data of citizens, personal data, should be generated at all. In fact, in all European regulations, for example on online platforms, we also want to avoid, for example, making money from children's data. I'll go to the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u84	I have just heard that the Secretary of State says that unlike previously, there are more countries that are opposed to a European Bsn number and do not see the need to do so. I like that; I want to mark that. I believe that the Secretary of State has also played a role in this, so I would like to congratulate her on having carried out the motion of mine which has been supported more widely by the Chamber. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u85	You're welcome. I would then like to address Mr Ceder's question about the child impact assessment for digital platforms. This is an issue that has also been very clearly highlighted in our work agenda that we want to focus on, because we consider children's rights to be an incredibly important part of the human rights that we want to guarantee. We have a code of children's rights. That helps developers to comply with legal obligations, such as the economic exploitation of children, so use children's data in such a way that you give them ads, for example, or use these children's data in other ways, or use their market influence. Not only do I think this is important, but it is a good thing that we should further develop this in the design and use of these digital platforms. The European Commission has produced a "Better Internet for Children" Communication. The Commission proposes to draw up a code of conduct. I think that's important, too. It is also a good commitment, but we must keep in mind that this is adequately incorporated into the various elements and regulations. Additional legal obligations have already been included in the Digital Services Act. For example, you should not profile children in advertisements and the services should be designed in such a way that they are safe for children. As far as I am concerned, this issue must remain high on the agenda in order to ensure that we continue to protect children very well. By the way, as I mentioned just now in replying to Mrs Rajkowski's questions, we also want to ensure that children are not only protected, but that we also help them to understand what the digital world is, how we can make it safe for them and how you can move safely into it. Then there was Mrs Leijten's request about the Council of State report that we should come up with a response from the government. I had hoped that I could have done that for this debate, but that has not yet been achieved. Nevertheless, my commitment is still here. I'm gonna try to send that to you in the next quarter. Then there is Mr Van Haga's question. It was about being able to say anything, and that should be possible as long as it's not a criminal offence. That is exactly what we want as a cabinet. Freedom of speech is at the top. What's offline is illegal, too, online. We have also exchanged this with each other before. It is, of course, important that we continue to steer that, that we also ask online platforms to send it. We're also going to ask if the online platforms will, of course, meditate on what's happening on the platforms in the framework of the Digital Services Act. But that also needs to be transparent, so that even if something happens, then it is clear to everyone what is there and that, for example, when you as a citizen are tagged by such a platform or otherwise you express your opinion, it is clear how you can resist it. Mr Van Baarle asked whether the government is prepared to introduce a policy that a computer never makes a decision. It is very complicated to say so, but what we have said is that under AI regulations and GDPR we will never let algorithms make decisions if there is no human test behind it. That is what we will continue to do. That is also very important to do. This is without prejudice to the fact that these algorithms must be correct, because we also know that it can be insufficient to have only one algorithm and then a human test; both must be well organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u86	What does that mean in practice? Does it mean that a person is involved in, for example, the objection phase, so if a citizen objects? Does it mean that there's always a human being involved when an algorithm makes a decision about a human being? Or does it mean that in the development phase people are always involved in making the decision model? What does it mean in practice and in what cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u87	It's all about it, really. When developing algorithms or decision-making tools to determine whether or not you receive a grant or benefit, the algorithms that are used will always have to be created by people, but also have to comply with the tests we talked about earlier. The second is that when decisions are made that can be very far-reaching for people, whether or not they have to repay a grant, whether or not they have to repay something, there is always an ex post check when it is done by an algorithm, so that we know that the decision is correct. By the way, we have said that the use of algorithms should continue to be tested for bias, not only at the beginning, but permanently. When decisions are made in terms of objection, it is almost impossible to let an algorithm do that. Of course, it must always have a human test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u88	The Secretary of State is talking about "absolute cases." Is that definite? Is there a criterion to determine: this is profound, so a human test, and this is not profound, so no human test? Is there a clear, binding rule for that within the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u89	Yes, that's in the general principles of good governance. They also indicate when you have to take the test or not and when there must be a human intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u90	Okay. I think the two ministers are also eager to say something, so if you could finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u91	I'm almost done. I've got three little things left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u92	I've heard you twice, Mr. Van Baarle. But let's go, 'cause it's Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u93	So what exactly is in those principles of good governance? In what cases and in what cases not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u94	You can't let any algorithm make a decision that eventually leads to someone getting something or not, for example when it comes to finances or benefits. There must always be a human intervention. So it's not just what's been decided. It is good to know, by the way, that we are mapping this out. For example, you want to apply for student funding. Then it will be mapped out what steps DUO takes with what information, on the basis of which it will be decided whether or not you receive study funding and, if so, of what level. We're not just mapping what steps DUO is taking. We also map what information is used for this and what legal basis exists for it. For example, if DUO is relevant to your parents' income, then there is also how it is checked, for example with the Tax Office, and according to which law that can be checked. In this way, it is constantly becoming clear to everyone how the decision is made and how that decision is ultimately made, so that you can follow it completely. I think that's very important myself. You are therefore able to object if you think that the decision has been taken incorrectly, because you know what you have to object to. I'm gonna go over the last questions I had left. I think I discussed it, because they were about protecting children online and about CO. That is further discussed by my colleague. Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u95	Together with Mrs Leijten, I had called on the Secretary of State to take the lead with the Minister of EZK in relation to the data centres. Spatial planning is, of course, one of the aspects, but it should not be the most important aspect. So it really doesn't make any sense that the Minister for Spatial Planning is now in the lead. The Secretary of State just said that she had an explanation about the metaverse and about what might still be coming and what is possible in it. Then she is also the person who can develop a vision for the future of what is needed in ten or twenty years' time, what the data question is and what we need in terms of digital infrastructure? Can she comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u96	That is a very important question. A vision is being developed on this. Eventually, the entire cabinet is watching, but I certainly am watching. You're about to hear more about this from my colleague. It is, of course, about what will be the demand for data in the future, what we want, what will be the questions about spatial planning and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u97	I had to take a look at what kind of answer the Secretary of State gave to Mr Van Baarle's question about the General Administrative Law Act. The opinion of the Council of State is precisely that the General Administrative Law Act does not now comply with the issues of the more digital government and automatic decision-making. This is exactly where we have the problem. I really regret that there is still no response to that. But the answer the Secretary of State just gave to Mr Van Baarle's question, namely that it is governed by the General Administrative Law Act, is simply incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u98	I'd like to get back to you on that. Two things. Number one: on the report comes a reaction and that indeed takes longer than should have been. But that reaction is coming. You also made a point about whether decision-making is made without human intervention, while it has great consequences for people. We have agreed on this that we always think that the human size should be valid and that an algorithm cannot determine whether you should pay back or that sort of thing. That's what we're trying to do. We didn't just mean to do that, but we also aim to do it. I would like to come back to this in that response to the Council of State paper when it comes specifically to the possible shortcomings in the General Administrative Law Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u99	If I drive too fast on the highway and I get flashed, there's an automatic decision that I get a fine. No one's gonna get in the way. If you say, "Hey, can I have the proof?', Then a person comes in and you can get the picture. That's how it's taken care of. But it hasn't been settled for a long time, for example, by the Tax Administration. We both know what that has had to do with it. The General Administrative Law Act is now not effective enough in protecting people in relation to government and administrative bodies. We hear this year in, for example, from the National Ombudsman. I therefore hope that we will get a very quick response from the government to that important report. I really think this is going to help us, especially that reaction, in building a government that makes reliable decisions and is also reachable when you have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u101	I missed something about buying the Chinese cameras just to knock it down. That was about government policy and purchasing from the government. That is why I expected you to answer that question. There has been a commitment and there has been a motion. It's about the BIO Purchasing Directive. So I would like to hear some more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u102	That's what my colleague's gonna tell me a little bit more about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u103	Fine. Who can I give the floor to? The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u104	Mr President, thank you. I walk past the remaining questions that concern me. Thank you for the open debate. I shall begin with Mr Bontenbal's question on Europe's strategic autonomy. How can we give digitalization a place in it? I was actually happy with that question, because we are working very hard on it. How do we keep that in balance? We want to be an open economy. The Netherlands is a country that wants to have open borders and to benefit from trade, not only in Europe but also outside. Our companies benefit from this, including our citizens in the Netherlands. This openness also means that we are at the forefront in a lot of aspects. But it is also true, of course, that there can be too many dependencies that make us vulnerable. At this time, it is clear that we must be very vigilant about this. So we need to be very careful how we set up our infrastructure, how we protect our key technologies and how we deal with data. We must do so, of course, because certain interference could damage our international security or our fundamental rights, privacy and data protection and have a grip on it. So it's looking for a balance. The government's policy is to follow two lines, two tracks. On the one hand, there is the "promote." I always start with the positive approach. We want to strengthen and, in that sense, have the strategic position, which is open strategic autonomy. That's what you do most of all by investing in your own technology. We do that in different ways. For example, the AiNed project has been approved by the Growth Fund. For example, we are also active at European level with IPCEI. Funds have been allocated in the areas of cloud infrastructure and micro-electronics. In addition, that's a more exciting subject... there's regulation. How do you do that in a good way? You want to keep certain dependencies manageable. The whole repertoire of European regulation helps us regulate there. Those twelve laws, including the DMA and the DSA, have all passed. Nationally we also know the Act unwanted control telecommunications, the Wozt. We also have measures relating to the safety and integrity of telecommunications. We are gradually expanding this agenda, because we see that we must also learn to deal with this new reality. At the moment, for example, the Vifo Act is in the First Chamber and there will be other laws, because we want to keep an eye on what we want to monitor our structures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u105	Have we, looking back, been too naive in recent years as politics, as Cabinets, as society, perhaps? I am thinking, for example, of the fact that we, as a Chamber, have pushed back on Chinese investments in vital wind farm infrastructure. There's a pushback now, but haven't we been too naive in the last few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u106	The developments are also moving very quickly. The Netherlands has a very open trade. It is therefore crucial to find a balance in this. That doesn't mean you're doing the right thing by closing and limiting everything. For the longer term, you could make it more complicated. You can see that the experience of the past period has helped to reflect on that legislative framework and that we have been able to intervene in a number of situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u107	What, then, would be the Minister's criterion of allowing or not allowing certain technologies? I imagine that in things that are not vital or easily replaceable or where it is easy to add another supplier, you say that there are plenty of alternatives and there is diversification possible. Then what are the things we really don't want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u108	What we really don't want is, when I look at my own portfolio, that vital processes and sensitive technologies are being hit. The Vifo Act regulates a lot of that. With an AMvB, we're going to monitor those technologies and see if they're still up-to-date and up-to-date. That, in my opinion, gives us a very good repertoire to intervene in, also along the process. So this is not only the case with the takeover, but also in the interim we can monitor whether interests are shifting. This will create a new framework, but that legal framework is not yet in place. So we need to be more creative now if we want to intervene. Then I come to Mrs Rajkowski's question about the sea cables. It is very important that we also look at the sea cables. Mrs Rajkowski had a point entirely. Sea cables are crucial to our infrastructure. Mrs Rajkowski mentioned the number of one. That's on the move. Three new sea cables have been built and/or announced in the past year. I've been trying to verify what's already been built and what's going to happen. I didn't get a clear answer to that. At least they're in process. It is about three additional sea cables that are being realized in the short term. We see this as a very important step in broadening our infrastructure. In my exploratory letter on infrastructure, which has already been mentioned a few times in this debate, I will go into more detail on how we see developments in the field of, among other things, sea cables within the framework of infrastructure in the broad sense. We are talking to a number of parties to keep an eye on it and to have a good understanding of what is needed. For example, we talk to the Foundation Digital Infrastructure Netherlands, with SURF, with Amsterdam Internet Exchange about exactly what is needed. We also need all these explorations to be able to incorporate them into a good vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u109	I am pleased that the VVD colleague has raised this issue. It is also in line with the statement that the A2 is not Apple's, to which I referred in our contribution. I hear the Minister talking about "our" infrastructure when she talks about the cables, but it's not cables that the government is building. It's private companies that do that. With the image that Apple has the A2, in this case submarine cables, I wonder how the Minister sees the concept of "our infrastructure" in there. What kind of regulation does that include? How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr Van Raan has a sharp hearing. I did say "our" because it has something to do with how we want to regulate our infrastructure. In this case, it is not "our" in the sense of ownership. Mr Van Raan is quite right about that. Other parties own those cables. We will have to make good demands on the quality of these cables.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u111	That's exactly the analysis that was made in the book I quoted: the Internet is broken, but we can fix it. We did make a bit of the mistake at the time, either by giving away the infrastructure or by not thinking about it at all. We are now threatening to do the same to our hydrogen infrastructure, because it also goes to the Shells of this world. How does the Minister of Economic Affairs intend to keep a grip on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u112	That's a good question. As a government, we think you should do what you're good at. You should be careful not to be too easy on the field of expertise, such as exploiting, maintaining and managing sea cables. What you have to do is to ensure that the regulations we shape with each other are properly implemented and that you put the checks-and-balances on them. I would like to address this issue in the exploration we are going to do, because I understand that there could be some tension on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u113	Tension on the sea cable. I've heard you twice, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u114	Very briefly, then. The point that the Minister rightly calls upon, I am also an optimist, is that the government must do what it is good at. Yes, of course. The government is good at giving public infrastructure concessions to companies, and I would like to give it some thought. To what extent can we still implement that model?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u115	I take this into account, because this is certainly an interesting thought. I'd love to take it with me. That is a commitment, Mr President. I come to the next block about the privacy-like questions that concern my portfolio. Among other things, Mrs Leijten's question is about cookies. The conditions for the use of tracking technologies by companies using cookies are laid down in the e-Privacy Directive, Mrs Leijten knows that very well and is now being adapted at European level. In the previous debate with the committee, I indicated that it is important that we think that there is something to choose. If you do not fill in a cookie, because for certain reasons you do not want your data to be exchanged there, we consider it important that you have a reasonable choice. That could be a payment, but that could be something else, so there really is something to choose. That's what we're committed to as the Netherlands. I come to Mrs Rajkowski's question about protecting the home address in the Chamber of Commerce data. Recently some of this has also come out. Mrs Rajkowski referred to this. She asked if we could speed up the information of entrepreneurs in a certain way. That's what we want to do. In connection with the GDPR, it is only difficult for us to approach everyone personally. We will have to do so through the appropriate channels. We're gonna take that very seriously. That's important. It is a good idea and we have taken a good step, but it must be implemented and implemented. I believe that the Secretary of State has said the necessary things to a question from Mrs Leijten. She asked if we could put the protection of privacy and the grip on data at the centre of data management. I think there has been a lot of talk about this. It is often about commercial data. From my portfolio, it is important that we keep a close eye on the fact that what is privacy-related remains heavily covered by the GDPR. That is a very good framework and a very good legal framework, where we can also look at other interests in a privacy-friendly way. I dare say that the GDPR interest should go above all those other interests. Here's what I'm gonna do. Those are the sustainability questions of the Party for Animals. The question is what the new technologies mean for sustainability. The contribution of the Party for Animals clearly indicated that the use of data in ICT and IT costs a lot of energy, but that this can also produce something for dealing with the sustainability issue. Emerging technologies can certainly contribute to this, as it is becoming increasingly clear that the issue lies there. I do find it interesting to investigate this further. So I'd like to take that suggestion. I'll pick it up. The Party for Animals then asked what we are doing to keep CO emissions as low as possible. In the twin transition, as we call it, these two aspects do not completely separate. As I said, they might be able to help each other in part. Of course, sending an e-mail alone requires a lot of energy. That example was given. That was more than clear. In any case, many data centres and other ICT and IT companies are under the obligation to implement and report on all energy saving measures with a payback period of five years or less. This will also be subject to strengthening supervision. That's with my colleague Jetten. We're working hard to put it harder. We do this on the basis of the list of recognised measures. The obligation will be extended to the hyperscale data centres in 2023. In any case, you will have an obligation to implement energy-saving measures. In addition, in the review of the EED, the Energy Efficiency Directive, we also want to establish that data centres are transparent about their energy consumption. They must report on this on the basis of their floor space and capacity. So we are going to increase transparency, make what we are talking about visible, take action and monitor. On the other hand, you indicated that data usage can also accelerate the energy transition. What I found interesting in Luxembourg, where the Secretary of State and I were present two weeks ago, was a subject that was on the agenda at European level. You can do this in Dutch, but it is much more interesting to do it in a European context. That issue was the conflict and the coherence between these two transitions. We have called, through my contribution, for this to be pursued very seriously, because we believe that this should have an important place in policy at European level. I think I have said enough about the infrastructure exploration that is coming. The data centers are also included in this. This applies to the data centers, the sea cables, 5G and everything that goes with infrastructure in a broad sense. I think I'm here because a lot of things have already been answered by the Secretary of State. But I can see that that is not quite the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u116	A number of Members do not agree with you, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u117	I appreciate the Minister's enthusiasm and optimism, but I think she has not treated my question as a physical address in response to her letter on the Trade Register and the possibility ofzzp'ers registering a postal address. My question was: when can they do that? I think the proposal on the content is a very nice one, but thezzp'ers are very keen to be able to feel safe if it is not now. When can they do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u118	We want to start implementing already in anticipation of final recording. The Chamber of Commerce starts, as we speak, with the execution of this possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u119	So do I understand that I would be able to apply for it myself shortly after this debate, if I wanted to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u120	That would be a very nice check on our implementation power. I'd like to invite you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u121	Keep us posted. Send me another app tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u123	The point of the data centers went a little too fast for me. Am I supposed to see it as some sort of future perspective? What are we going to need over the next ten or twenty years, taking into account the new technologies, such as multiverse and metaverse, which, of course, could make for a lot more data traffic? Maybe in the long term, we can operate online or as much as possible. I don't know any of it. To what extent will this be taken into account in the future perspective of what we will need later? If we are too late, then the digital infrastructure is not sufficient. Can the Minister comment on the question of data centres, and not just on the amount of data centres needed, but also, for example, on the opportunities for our institutions, our businesses and our top sectors? What could they do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u124	It's nice that the question is asked, because I think it's good to take a look at what we're going to do in the next period. We are working with my ministry to make a broad view on the development of the Dutch economy over the next 10, 20, 30 years. That's quite a challenge. In other debates, I have already spoken about this in a number of your Members. We talked about the question of what that is. That is not something planned economically, because we are not going to sign what the Netherlands should look like in 2040. That is not the way we want to conduct policy. We do want to see what priorities we set there and what consequences that could have. We planned that view of the economy in the last quarter of this year. There is also a reflection of the place that the digital economy has in it. The results will be taken into account in the exploration of the digital infrastructure. Then you can see what you actually need for that. The new technologies you mention... We involve the top sectors, and a lot of stakeholders, in this debate to see if we can connect. I hope that we will come up with a good framework in which we will give some outline of what we think we need in terms of bandwidth. At least that's my ambition. Then we can also see if three sea cables are sufficient, just to say it very flat. Eventually, you have to relate that to the ambition you have and to the possibilities and limitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u125	That's clear. It's just gonna be really big now. I'm a little worried that the subject of data centers is going to be one paragraph. That is the call we made from the Chamber to the directors. The Secretary of State just referred to you on that point. That was the call to take that lead and take it away when looking purely at spatial planning issues. The Minister of EZK sat at the table last week. The Minister has heard my sigh that this is only about power consumption and spatial planning. No one seems to be thinking about what we're gonna need. Do we need data centers close to sea cables and anywhere in the Netherlands? Are we gonna sit here and say that we threw them all down in the north of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u126	That vision of infrastructure, the exploration we are going to do, must give some answers to the question of what we need. Why do I say "somehow"? I'd prefer to say "totally." You can't, because you can't look 10, 20 or 30 years ahead and tell us how much we'll need. You can make an assessment of what the share of the economy is going to be. We can also make the estimate that data centers are not hyperscale data centers, but the colocation data centers are likely to have a share of our energy structure. So we need to think very carefully about where we want to place it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u127	I asked how we weigh the interests of those cookies. You have the commercial interest in following people and making offers, and in selling the data collected with those cookies. It's a good thing you can turn them off, but that's an extra job for people. I would have taken that as an example in the question of how you weigh the commercial interest in relation to the privacy interest. We have had this debate before, so we know where we stand. The SP would like to regulate a little more to protect the privacy side. But now the Minister said: The Netherlands thinks that those cookies should be available when you pay. Okay. Now you pay with your privacy and then you pay with money. That's a lot, isn't it? Then the commercial interest takes precedence. And in the following sentence, she says: but when it comes to the balance of privacy, the GDPR is always above everything. Of course, that doesn't match, because you'll give that data away. This means that those data are no longer yours, whereas the GDPR is about protecting your data. So what exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u128	The GDPR assumes that your data cannot be used by anyone else. If you give your own explicit consent, what we do every day, then the use of data is permitted. The crucial question is whether you knew well at that time what you were doing and whether you are not excluded from an essential service or package if you have certain questions, doubts or principles. We want there to be more to choose and you do not necessarily come into a cookie system. I gave an example of an amount, but there may be other, lighter consideration. We need to take a good look at that. We are now having this conversation at European level. The point is that you have something to choose and that you are not forced to give up your data, because on the one hand it has that value and on the other hand it is a personal choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u129	I can't really figure out how the Secretary of State makes the balancing of interests here. Those data are human and that's why they're protected under the GDPR. That's a protection of your own property. That's actually the GDPR. At the same time you can give it away anywhere, because a lot of people just click those cookie detectors away. We know that. You can give it away for a consideration from a site that can offer you something for that, but if we go through the Minister's line, shouldn't we say: no, you don't have cookies by default, but you get them when you click them? Now you have to click them out and give away a lot if you don't do that right, which you may not know at all. Then that privacy is really not guaranteed. Shouldn't you turn it around?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u130	We need to look at this in a nuance, because it is about trade. It is also about maintaining an entire economy, which benefits a lot of people, who want to shop online, who want to have offers. That's quite a choice. In that sense, I may have a difference of opinion with Mrs Leijten, because I assume that you should have that opt-out, while she opts more for an opt-in. That could be a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u131	Fine. Thanks to the Minister. I'm gonna suspend for a few minutes and then we're gonna listen to Minister Yeşilgöz.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u132	The minister looks a lot more relaxed than two and a half minutes ago. That is why I am happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u133	Subtle. Thank you, thank you, thank you. My privacy has been violated, I hear! That's right! You don't need an algorithm for that, haha.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u134	For reasons of privacy, I can't say anymore. The AVG forbids me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for this debate. I am glad that the debate could take place today, after having been postponed a few times. The Netherlands is one of the most digitised countries in the world; colleagues have already said that, so I will keep my introduction very brief. That means there are a lot of opportunities. I remember Mr Bontenbal from our debates when I was Secretary of State for Climate Policy. So I know he always has a philosophical touch in his input, and he did now. He asked: how does technology actually contribute to being a free person, to being able to live well? He said it better than I do now, but it usually is. Mr. Chairman. So I think it offers a lot of opportunities, but it also creates challenges and risks. As Minister for Justice and Security, I naturally focus on the risks involved. Because while we're always looking for a balance, we also see threats. We are also seeing these threats increase in recent years: state actors with offensive cyber programs did not shy away from economic and political espionage or disruptions. At the same time, non-state criminal actors have made a major earning model of hacking and digital hostage of all kinds of companies and fellow governments. This image is also confirmed in the Cybersecurity statue of the Netherlands, which will soon, I believe, be sent to your Chamber at the beginning of next week. This is, of course, also used as a problem analysis for the strategy. We expect them shortly after the summer. In order to face the increased threat, an integrated approach is needed, involving public and private parties working together. The cabinet therefore wants to build on the approach of the previous cabinet. The aim of me and my colleagues is, of course, to continue to invest in the digital security of our society. Mr President, I think I am going straight to the answers. That seems to me to be the most efficient, because a lot has already been said. I have four folders. The first directory is algorithms and regulation new technologies. The second directory is cybersecurity. The third folder is privacy and the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which has already been mentioned. Moreover, I will observe my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection, if there is anything left. I also have a folder of other very important questions. I'll start with the first folder, including algorithms. In particular, it has been asked whether the claim is correct, and that is also the subject of my colleague, JenV's Secretary of State, that the IND origin is used in risk models. Some questions have been asked about this and some letters have been sent about it, but perhaps it is good to go into that further. The Immigration and Naturalization Service does not use ethnicity data in risk models. The IND works on a daily basis with issues about nationality, but that makes sense because that work is about foreigners. There was a risk model. Unfortunately, too late, that stopped. But that did stop. This contained characteristics of companies and not of individuals. I thought it would be a good idea for this debate to emphasise that. Once again, this has been shared in writing. Then there is a specific question from GroenLinks, of course partly on behalf of the PvdA: how does the police deal with the findings of the Court of Auditors in Algorithms? The findings of the General Court provide the police with tools to improve the use of the Crimes Anticipatory System. That means that the police are working on that concretely. The Crimes Anticipating System received a red score on nine main topics, in the report presented in a table. In the actual, more comprehensive review framework, 23 scores were green. This comprehensive assessment was not made visible. I thought it would be a good idea to mention that for a moment, to balance things out. The more comprehensive table on the Crimes Anticipating System received by the Court's police shows that the concerns are mainly in the demonstrable accountability surrounding the system. This means, therefore, that certain checks are carried out, but that they are not clearly written down and recorded what will then be the result. A police working group therefore aims to be able to do that responsibility properly, so that you not only use these instruments well when you use them, but also take responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you to the Minister for the answer. I always tend to interpret "after summer" as "short after summer," but in theory it can also be 2078. So could the minister be a little more precise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u137	It's definitely between September 2022 and 2078. No, in autumn, and I hope not in winter. But they're working on that right now. A programme plan shall also specify what this further cooperation might look like. Let us agree that, if it is far after October, I will update one of the debates we are holding so that Mrs van Ginneken can at least keep a sense of what is happening there. From the VVD came the question when we can expect the work of the Hermans motion. There will be a letter from me and the Minister of Economic Affairs. This will address the ways in which SMEs will be supported to become cyber-safeter and become more resilient. That letter will come in the near future. We aim to achieve this before the summer recess. At least that's our goal. Then I'll be at privacy and the Personal Data Authority. My colleague, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, has already said a few things about this. I'll see what's left of me. I had a specific question from D66 about facial recognition. Mrs Van Ginneken said: it is still used in public space. Why and when are you quitting? A clear framework has been agreed in the coalition agreement. Facial recognition may be possible, but this requires legal demarcation and control. That makes sense. It is also important that we take care of this in that way. This means that without the forthcoming artificial intelligence regulation referred to in the question, there is a framework for aid. You should hardly ever use facial recognition in public space. This can only be done in two cases in the Netherlands. It is possible if you explicitly ask everyone for permission, for example when entering a festival. Then you can say, "Would you like to join us?" But then of course you also have to offer a dignified analogue alternative, so it's a complicated process to do it that way. That often doesn't work in public space. It is also allowed if there is a legal basis to do so. This applies, for example, to our border control. I think everyone can think of why that is. It also applies to the police. It may use the CATCH system with the necessary safeguards; this is the central automatic recognition technology for ex post identification of suspects. But you're never supposed to put this on just like that. So there are always frameworks. If you put this on, it's to keep our country safe and protect victims. In addition to this, the above-mentioned artificial intelligence regulation will provide for additional control. That is a good thing. However, it will not surprise Mrs van Ginneken that I do not see any reason at the moment to ban everything we have now in the meantime. Because those possibilities are already very limited and, as far as I am concerned, very necessary for the parts for which we use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thanks to the Minister. I do think it is important that we do not remain on our hands, especially as we see that in practice it goes wrong with the use of facial recognition. A few weeks ago there was a problem in Rotterdam about filming corona protesters in a further past. I think it is very important for the Minister to be able to guarantee that its application really takes place within the very restrictive safeguards that the Minister sets out. Can the Minister undertake to investigate whether this is the case in all cases? Can she also promise that it will not be applied anywhere beyond this very specific definition? 'Cause that's not what I'm hearing in her answer. I hear it's supposed to be, but not that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u139	I'm assuming that everyone abides by the law. The moment you don't stick to the frameworks and the law, there are other ways to find out and act accordingly. I just outlined the frameworks within which we must, of course, do it. I think that's really important. So sharing is also very often good when it comes to keeping us safe and protecting victims. I have a better plan as far as I am concerned; let me put it this way. In any case, after the summer, we will come up with a letter explaining the position in the coalition agreement and explaining how we will continue to deal with it. Maybe we can combine that. Then I can also outline these safeguards and tell you where we are going to use them. Then we can keep an eye on each other this way. I'd be at the Haga Group by now. He asked how the cabinet would prevent citizens from being unjustly followed by companies and governments. That question was asked in relation to an EU legislative proposal to scan for child pornography content. That bill should not be used improperly, but it should be used for the purposes for which it is intended. At least that's how I heard that question. The European Commission's proposal focuses inter alia on the responsibility of online service providers in the fight against online sexual child abuse. Frankly, we also need these providers very badly in order to be able to act effectively. The Cabinet therefore supports the principle that both European governments and providers of Internet services have a responsibility and take action to combat online sexual abuse of children. I understand, of course, the concerns that have just been shared, including the infringement of the right to private life, the right to data protection and the communication secret of citizens. The BNC sheet on this subject also states that the cabinet is critical of a system in which anonymity on the internet would no longer be possible and private parties collect data about the identity of their users. So it's also about the right balance here, that you can take action against, in this case, online sexual child abuse, but that you also have guarantees that this will not be a licence to use it for other purposes. This means that, in the follow-up process with the European Commission and the other Member States, we will continue to emphasise that these safeguards are of course very important. Then I had another question from D66: can the cabinet now include in any bill collecting personal data the additional supervisory capacity of the Dutch Data Protection Authority? The Integrated Weighting Framework and those implementation tests actually have exactly this aim, to reflect the impact of new regulations and legislation on, among other things, implementation services and supervisors. It must be significant effects. I think that's the relevant part here, in our discussion. For not every personal data with which extra work is carried out results in a significant increase in the task of the Personal Data Authority. That's why there are some hooks to the word "each," as I just heard from the input. I think we're looking for a handy way to work with it. It is also important that it remains practicable. If I can interpret it in such a way that it concerns any legislative proposal that leads to a significant additional processing of personal data, then we can also absolutely monitor it with each other. But it won't always be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u140	I think we're getting closer. Of course, I understand that: if it isn't significant, you don't have to do a lot of work to write a few numbers on paper anyway. But for the control function of the Chamber, it is important that it is explicitly stated that it has not been found significant, so that at least we know that the balance has been made and that we can also hold the person responsible. Then the question remains: when is it significant? But I think that we will be able to talk about this further, because I do not have a concrete answer to that now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u141	Mrs Van Ginneken is not only asking a good question, but also giving a good answer to that question. I'm always very happy about that. But I think that's exactly what it is. I propose that I also take this with me at home, towards the cabinet, towards my colleagues, because in the end we should all be able to handle this very well ourselves, so that we ourselves go to a workable definition of "significant'. Maybe it's not static either. Perhaps it can be explained by legislative proposal, so that the Chamber can follow when and when not. But I'm definitely taking this. Hopefully we're gonna get that sharp with each other along the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u142	Yes. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u143	I was just with the Party for Animals!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u144	Well, then, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u145	He's already trying to interrupt me because he doesn't agree with my answer in advance. Oh, no, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u146	They're all suspicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u147	Well, I'm afraid to say we're not gonna agree on this. This was about the Data Processing Act through collaborations. I got the question: why don't you quit? Why hasn't it been taken back by the government? The bill Data Processing Act was adopted by the Dutch Parliament in 2020 and is currently in the Upper House. As far as I am concerned, it is an incredibly important bill, because I really need it in the fight against organised crime. In the fight against organised crime, our legislation has not grown. If you look at who we are facing and what structures we are facing, I can only say in this debate that our legislation, our rules and our way of working have not grown. If we don't grow it quickly, we'll leave our own security forces behind and the criminals can be ten steps ahead. That will mean that we are very naive. I don't want to. I know that we can debate this for a long time, because I know that there are parties that are not for those Wgs. But it's already been dealt with here, so I'd like to leave it at that. Then I'm basically with my folder other very important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u148	The Minister is absolutely right: we do not agree. The other question, which I believe is still in this block, although it may well be with the other important questions, is also about the anticipation of things and changing circumstances, in this case in the example of the app in America that allows women to keep track of their cycles. That seems like a really nice app and it's actually meant to collect data. It is then possible to use it at once to see if illegal abortions have been committed, because that legislation has changed. I think the Minister would come back to that. Then I wonder whether it is indeed not wiser to investigate Mrs Leijten also hinted at this or a similar principle as with the yes-jasticker that the Animal Party has managed to bring about for advertising leaflets, so "do nothing unless" is not worth much more, even when it comes to apps that collect data. Then in principle they do not, unless the user explicitly states that it can. Because this changing legislation now makes sure that data that is never intended for that purpose is used as a means of detection. That can't be the intention. I think the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u149	I had interpreted that question as: what is the balance between business interests and privacy? Is that right or was that another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u150	Partly, because once again, these are not business interests; these are privacy interests, which are weighed against investigative interests at once, in the case of the app I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u151	I think I understand the question. He is only a bit complicated because a context from outside the Netherlands is being translated into the Netherlands, but I do understand why that is being done, because of course those apps are available worldwide and that could just work that way. Perhaps it is good to point out that in Europe and at least nationally, we always check whether the GDPR is not being undermined and whether data collection serves the purpose that was intended at the front. So I'm just looking for something extra to look for or that this answer will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u152	No, something extra is being requested, because the Minister himself said on the previous subject that we sometimes need legislation that makes this possible in the interests of the ongoing arms race against crime. We did not agree on that, but perhaps we agree that this is also an example of progress that legislation is not prepared for. Data must be prevented from being collected for one purpose, which will then be a business purpose, but will later be used for investigative purposes, because that is not the intention. What can the Minister promise or do to prevent that? Then I mentioned the example of the yes-jasticker for apps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u153	That's why I'm looking a little bit. I think we're talking about the same thing. This example is almost impossible in Europe because of GDPR and European regulation. We have really built that up here in a different way. That is why the comparison is difficult. So I understand the concern and I get the signal, but our experts indicate in this comparison and what we now see is that we have a different context in terms of regulation and legislation, not only in our country, but also in Europe. So there will undoubtedly be actors who want to take advantage of it, but we have protected it pretty well. You will notice that I sometimes think that we should have a little more space to leave our security services to work, for example. Then I will come back here with proposals and I am sure we will have a consensus on them. But these frameworks are very firm in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u154	It was very nice between the Minister and me just now, but I was a little shocked when the Minister mentioned the WGS and organized crime in one sentence. As you know, D66 is very critical of the WGS, but it is certainly not intended to be a means of tackling primarily organised crime. There are other methods for that, aren't there? We have intelligence services in case there's a broad suspicion but no reasonable suspicion, and the police have all kinds of powers. Within the WGS there is an uncomfortable way of exchanging information within four public chains, where the Minister also has the power to hang all kinds of things under them at his own discretion. Is this still proportionate in the Minister's view, and is this appropriate as an instrument for exchanging as broad data as the police already have specific powers to deal with organised crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u155	Yes, because it is not at all the case that organised crime, for example, can only be tackled through the powers of the AIVD and the powers that the police sector has. The key to rolling up organised networks is data sharing. With the WGS, we are talking about multidisciplinary partnerships, the intention is that, with safeguards, we can share information with each other in order to be able to intervene at an early stage. Part of that will be organized crime. I know that this has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate in 2020, and I also know that we do not agree on this, but data sharing will, more than what we can do now, be crucial in the future, if we are to be able to roll up the networks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u156	Nor do I dispute the fact that more data sharing can contribute to detection, because the more you know about people, the more you can catch them on things. My point is that, in my view, it is not proportionate to the objective, as we have pointed out earlier. I therefore challenge the Minister to look more critically at the use of this kind of broad powers that share a great deal of citizen information, while there are other solutions to tackle organised crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u157	I'm picking up all the solutions. I can promise this room, so I'll come back a lot. The First Chamber has also asked a lot of questions about this, which we are now answering. I assume that I will then have a good debate in the First Chamber, no doubt with Mrs Van Ginneken's colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u158	Fine. I'd really like to go to the second term. Mrs Dekker, short, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u159	Yes, very briefly. Before the Minister goes to the block with the other very interesting questions, the following. She started talking about algorithms and said that one specific algorithm was tested on 23 cubes. Is the Minister prepared to share that comprehensive review with the Chamber? Because we don't have one. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u160	It's not mine, it's done by the General Court and it was about the police. I can see where to find it, but at least it's not mine. GroenLinks talked about online hate sowing, asking how to act against social platforms in that context. The liability of platforms for what is made public via platforms is shared and stored is regulated at European level in the Digital Services Act, which has recently been politically agreed in Brussels. It also regulates the responsibilities of platforms to act if they know about illegal content, including online hate speech, such as the obligation to have a procedure to report illegal content or content that is against terms of use. This is one of the procedures contained in it. But there is also an obligation, for example for the largest online platforms to investigate each year, and also for independent auditors to investigate whether a service is open to the dissemination of illegal content. If that's the case, they have to do something about it. This means, for example, that they have to modify their recommendation algorithms. So these are very clear steps that large platforms need to take to ensure that illegal content doesn't get space. I'd still have the PVV. Can the Minister give the current state of play on preventive deployment in scanning for child pornography, among other things? The approach to online sexual child abuse is aimed, among other things, at keeping the Internet clean. It is extremely important that footage of online sexual child abuse be removed as soon as possible. In this context, the hashtag server is used, recently called Instant Image Identifier. This is a very effective tool from the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse to match sexual child abuse material with images posted on the internet. The Instant Image Identifier matches images with the so-called well-known material. This means that material known to the police or to the Expertise Bureau Online Child Abuse is immediately recognized online. Mr. Chairman. With the advent of an administrative authority, it is also possible to maintain more effectively on companies that do not accurately remove reports of child pornography material. This means that this authority can continue to actively search for footage of sexual child abuse. So that's gonna mean some really big steps later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u161	Apologies. I do not think I have made the question sufficiently clear, because I have asked about the state of play on this issue. Actually, I'm talking about the encryption discussion. It is precisely this that I want to separate a little from the proposal to combat child pornography, because that is what everyone wants. Only my problem is that those two are interwoven and that if you question the end of encryption for very good reasons, then you are accused of not hating the other one enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u162	I understand that, because that would have been my last answer to the Party for Animals where that was also a bit mixed up. So I am pleased with this introduction, even before this answer. For a moment there was the idea that there was a bill on the table from Commissioner Johansson which specifically focuses on end-to-end, but that is the bill aimed at combating child pornography. Unfortunately, these discussions are indeed mixed up. The cabinet has given an appreciation that has just gone to the Chamber. At end-to-end, the cabinet's starting point is that high-quality encryption is endorsed and that this is essential for data security and, of course, for the fundamental rights of all of us. The importance of security and fundamental rights online is also endorsed in the coalition agreement. The cabinet is currently engaged in intensive discussions with the European Commission and other Member States to see where we stand. On the one hand, we really want to remain firmly behind these rights and on the other hand we want to see how we can prevent criminals from using them. That is still being investigated, so in that sense there is nothing new to report that we are still looking at it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mrs van Ginneken, briefly, because I really want to go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u164	Yeah, me, too, Mr. Chairman, very briefly. I hear the Minister making it very clear that end-to-end encryption, which is equally freely translated into my words, is sacred. I very much agree with that. Can the Minister undertake to encourage other Member States to make such a similar statement in the discussions she is holding in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u165	We have agreed that we will investigate this and that I will make this statement until then, so we will give this balance and do research to see how we can deal with it. So I suggest that I stick to that extremely careful wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u166	I missed a response to my question about the purchase of cameras from countries with an offensive cyber program against the Netherlands, for example the Chinese cameras that hang at the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u167	Yeah, there was some confusion about that. I heard the question myself as if it were about police cameras, about which there has also been a lot of discussion. In the meantime, the SP has also asked a lot of questions about this. The view at present is that not every product from China is by definition a risk and that you always have to look at what purpose it is going for. That's how it gets looked at. When it comes specifically to the use of such cameras by the government, BZK is looking closely at national security risks, of course along with other relevant government parties. So I think we've both heard the question in different areas. There's also a motion. But there is indeed now being drawn from BZK to see how we can fill it from our own role and responsibility as a government. It is good to say that the starting point at the moment is not that everything that comes from China, for example, is by definition a risk. For example, we have bought certain products from the police. We actually looked into whether there was a risk, yes or no. The answer was "no" then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u168	Clear; thank you for this answer. I'm still looking. There are motions and commitments. We've talked about this before in the House of Representatives. But then I ask written questions about those cameras and then there's nothing in the answers about an adjustment. The answer is: because the purchasing regime for the government is that, this is what is happening. Then I very much miss the motion and the commitments. I get the feeling I'm gonna have to file another motion. Anyway, I've got a few minutes before I get my turn in the second term. I'm gonna think about what wisdom is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u169	My main concrete point in this debate was the loot boxes in video games. Children are being manipulated to buy them and I think it is also a form of gambling. I do not think I have had an answer to that at all. I find that regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u170	I'll share that. I think we are going to look in second term at how we can solve this for Mr Bontenbal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u171	Perhaps that can be done in response to the motion that I shall be voting on...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u172	Exciting, exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u173	A fine profit warning!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u174	So much for the first term, I'll say. Is there a need for a second term? Yes, that's the case. You had five minutes to speak in the first period. With a minute and a half in second term, we need to be able to settle it. That's about a third. But Mr. Ceder's gonna make it even faster. He is the first speaker because he has to move on to an asylum debate. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the result on the European ID. I have three motions, which I will read to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in its Resolution 2429 the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly expresses great concern about children's exposure to harmful content and makes various recommendations to Member States to improve child protection;]] [[Considering that children also have easy access to extremely violent content and here too, the protection of children is inadequate;]] [[calls on the Government to provide insight into the level of protection of children against extreme content in the work programme, including the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly to improve this level of protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Stichting Appt concludes that only 1.25% of nearly 600 public apps are accessible;]] [[Whereas inaccessible government applications lead to the exclusion of people with less digital skills or disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to deal with the Digital Affairs budget together with Each, interest groups and other public authorities to ensure that at least the most necessary government applications are 100% accessible in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Bontenbal.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-868]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-869]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u176	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Code of Children's Rights requires a child impact assessment requiring digital services to take into account the impact of their services on children, including in terms of privacy, exploitation risks, cyberbullying and harmful content;]] [[Whereas children deserve additional protection on the Internet;]] [[calls on the Government, whether or not at European level, to establish a legal obligation for a child impact assessment for public and private digital services that are partly or entirely aimed at children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-870]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u178	Very good. Then we'll listen to Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mr. Chairman. My interrupting debate on the cookies showed that under this debate we lack a balance of values. Are these cookies for commerce, for convenience or do we consider privacy more important? If we assume the latter, you should have an opt-in: Mr. Bosma indicates that he wants to have a nice commercial of that and that and that, because then he sells some information. It's the other way around now. And what protection do we give to people when the government collects data and gives them all, as in the law on data sharing? We've seen at the surcharges what that's all about. At the time, it was easy for the government and a smaller government. Back then, privacy wasn't in the front row. We need a value framework to make a trade-off. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has set out different ambitions with regard to digitalisation, such as focusing on a thriving data economy, but also on data minimizement and deployment on a digital government, but also on an accessible government for all;]] [[noting that the government also notes that digitalisation offers both opportunities and high risks and that decision-making on digital issues is spread across different ministries as well as across the European Union and covers many different issues;]] [[Whereas it is unclear what values are behind and will be the basis for future policy and political choices on digitalisation and this is necessary in order to achieve sustained, unambiguous policies;]] [[calls on the government to provide a clear framework of values for the use, regulation and application of digital technology by the government, clearly identifying the principles and values that are leading,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-871]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas personalised online advertising can be manipulative, polarising and a threat to our democracy;]] [[Whereas the total prohibition of personalized political advertisements limits the influence of Internet companies on our society;]] [[calls on the government at EU level to ban political advertisements based on personal data and online tracking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that journalism research shows that there is still profiling, for example by municipalities in the form of prediction models using indicators based on historical data on demographic groups;]] [[Whereas indicators based on historical data on demographic groups, either directly based on indicators as well as gender or nationality, or indirectly based on potentially stigmatizing proxy data as a postal code or income, may lead to discriminatory outcomes;]] [[Whereas discriminatory algorithms are very damaging to those affected and to public confidence and are a direct violation of human rights;]] [[Whereas we seem to be jumping from incident to incident at this point;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a thorough and independent investigation into the existence of discriminatory algorithms and profiling somewhere within government organisations, both at local and national level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-872]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bouchallichh, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-873]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u181	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also for the answers and a number of commitments, for example on the letter on digital infra and the sea cable policy. Mr. Chairman. I had multiple motions. I've got one on it now, and I'm going to file it anyway. In the answers to the written questions, I do not see any previous motions and commitments coming back. So I'm gonna do it again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that countries with an offensive cyber program using digital means spy on and influence other states, including the Netherlands, to achieve economic-financial targets;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet has undertaken to investigate how equipment from organisations from countries with an offensive cyber agenda against the Netherlands can be excluded from government procurement and that it has also been promised to make a scan of the vital sector;]] [[noting that at present these countries cannot be excluded from certain procurement procedures due to outdated procurement directives and the lack of national policies and information sharing;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a directive for the government and its suppliers that products or services from organisations and companies from countries with an offensive cyber agenda directed against the Netherlands can be excluded from certain calls for tender, and to inform the Court of Justice about this before Christmas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rajkowski, Mr Van Weerdenburg, Mr Van Ginneken, Mr Bontenbal, Mr Ceder, Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-874]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u182	Last but not least, we have talked less about in this debate. I'd let it come back in other debates anyway. There's a lot going on on digitization. The VVD likes to be a blower in that. At the same time, when it comes to counter functions and so on, we are also looking at the question of whether society can cope with all these changes. We shall come back to that in other debates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you. Then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is increasing censorship on social platforms and facilitating this by public authorities;]] [[Whereas the principle of freedom of expression on social platforms must be that everything must be possible within the legal framework;]] [[calls on the government to commit itself to maintaining the freedom of speech on social platforms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both EU and national legislation in the field of digital matters could lead to an infringement of the online privacy of citizens and businesses;]] [[whereas everyone has the right to online privacy and governments must respect it;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure and strictly monitor the online privacy of citizens and businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Weerdenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-875]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-876]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to send a legislative proposal to the Chamber as soon as possible requiring government and companies to apply concrete safeguards, both in the development phase and in the implementation phase, in order to avoid discrimination by algorithms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to develop binding criteria for decisions which must not be automatic, i.e. without human intervention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to work at European level to ensure that EU regulations are given concrete anti-discrimination provisions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Raan and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-877]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle, Mr Leijten and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-878]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-879]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u186	These include the AI Act and the Digital Service Act, i.e. the digital regulations that are currently being prepared. Then I have one more question for the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has undertaken to do so and we are pleased to look at an external test on the government's scrutiny of discrimination and indicates that she intends to invest it with the Audit Service of the Empire. Why did the Secretary of State choose to invest that in the Audit Service? Where does it show that the Audit Service is the best body to do so? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u187	Then Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u188	Mr President, thank you. Pushing and pulling, that's usually the feeling that I'm left with debates about digital bags. That's okay, because that's what we're here for. But it would be a lot easier if the cabinet occasionally moved along. I can't hear the term "after summer" anymore. We need to speed up. There's so much to do. We want to help with that. That is why I am a little uncomfortablely surprised by the statement by the Secretary of State that the drafting of the main letter was still pending this debate. I wish I'd known before. Then we could have prevented that and we could have discussed it today. Can the Secretary of State promise that we will at least receive that work agenda for Princess Day, so that we can still speak during the WHO? Finally, the data centers. Last week, however, it turned out that the decision-making process was far too limited. It is not only aspects of electricity consumption and land-use planning that need to be considered, but also the overarching importance. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the decision-making process of data centres in the Cabinet, insufficient attention is paid to the usefulness and necessity of data centres and their value for the digital future of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Rathenau Institute in its report "Better Decision on Data Centres" calls for an integrated national policy across departments, as data centres are an integral part of the essential digital infrastructure and cannot be seen in isolation;]] [[calls on the Government to transfer the lead in the decision-making process around data centres (including hyperscalers) as well as the national direction on this subject to the Secretary of State for Digitalisation and the Minister for Economic Affairs jointly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-880]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u189	Mr. Chairman. Too bad my most important question hasn't been answered. It was about those loot boxes. I think it affects a lot of parents and families. I'm a father myself, and I can't deny that I run into things like that in my family. I think a lot of families are affected by this. I think we should put an end to this, which is why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that children are manipulated into micro-trading in video games and that there is also a form of gambling in so-called loot boxes;]] [[noting that these transactions are addictive and may burden families with unexpected invoices for these transactions, with all the resulting disruptive consequences;]] [[noting that consumer associations from 18 European countries together call for regulation of these lock boxes;]] [[noting that the Dutch Gaming Authority has made an attempt to regulate these slot boxes, but that the Council of State did not eventually participate;]] [[noting that these lock boxes are prohibited in Belgium;]] [[invites the cabinet to look for a possibility to ban these slot boxes in video games in the Netherlands as well and to amend the law where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bontenbal, Mr Ceder, Mr Rajkowski, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Ginneken and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-881]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you. Then the fraction of D66. I give the floor to Mrs Van Ginneken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u192	Mr. Chairman. We've had a rich debate. We have received excellent commitments in the area of the Chamber of Commerce and the visibility of the supervisory impact of new laws. I have a dilemma about the digital budget, because the Secretary of State has made very nice promises, but they stand or fall a bit with the time limit on which we are going to get that information and whether we can have a good debate on it. Since there is no third term, I will file a motion, which I can always continue. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the budgets for digitisation across budgets of ministries and departments have been distributed without any clear design or outline structure;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to provide a uniform understanding of the budgets for digitisation (including IV plans of departments, implementation organisations and regulators in the field of digitisation and incentive programmes) from the next budget round before November, and to send the Chamber an integral overview thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ginneken and Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-882]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a short and nice debate. I'm glad it finally happened. I am an optimistic man, as the three rulers know. That is why I am very pleased with the commitment of 'we will take it and look at it'. To support them as an optimistic man, I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is still presenting an implementation agenda;]] [[calls on the government to also map the climate impact and share it with the Chamber when preparing the digitisation plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Van Ginneken, Mr Bouchallichh and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-883]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u194	I can also imagine that this motion will be withdrawn if the commitment is further fulfilled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that digitalisation offers many opportunities to save CO, but that digitalisation can also lead to additional CO emissions;]] [[Notes that, in the context of the Broad Prosperity, the accumulated CO concentration has to decrease rapidly;]] [[believes that controlling data minimisation is desirable from both privacy and sustainability considerations;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how a sustainability levy, for example a bit tax, can be designed to allow the polluter to pay and stimulate data minimising while ensuring privacy and security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-884]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u195	Mr. Chairman. One more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission's proposal seeks to require the substantive monitoring of messages, thereby preventing end-to-end encryption and post-secretity;]] [[noting that the letter secret is guaranteed in Article 13 of the Dutch Constitution;]] [[calls on the government to maintain end-to-end encryption and not to support European proposals that make that impossible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Raan, Van Baarle, Van Ginneken, Leijten and Van Weerdenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-885]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u196	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u197	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Jansen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u198	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union intends to introduce a European digital identity and take the leadership of the cabinet in its development;]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether there is a need for this among the population;]] [[calls on the government to examine whether there is sufficient public support for the introduction of a European digital identity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to prevent the introduction of a European digital identity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this government is taking the lead in building up a European digital infrastructure that can serve as a basis for a social credit system;]] [[Whereas this seriously threatens the freedom of all Dutch people;]] [[says confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-886]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-887]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-888]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u199	The first motion asks to examine whether there is enough support. In the second motion, you immediately draw the conclusion that you do not want to do so. Then the first motion is completely unnecessary, isn't it? You're not doing anything with that. You don't want it, so then it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u200	"Mr. Jansen doesn't want it."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u201	Maybe you don't either. I believe that the second motion should be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u202	I hope so, but I expect that there may still be people who doubt this idea and who may be voting against it. It would be nice if we could at least have a support study. I hope your group will support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u203	So what's "enough"? If 10% of the people in the Netherlands need it and it is voluntary, is that enough? It is, of course, rather undefined what is "enough" support in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u204	I don't have in the motion to investigate whether there's... Or did I put it with "if there's enough support"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u205	"Enough," I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u206	Okay. I can change the wording. In any case, it would be a good idea to examine the extent to which people are waiting for this. Maybe that's a better phrase. Then we can judge as Chamber if that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u207	Are you going to come forward with a modified motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u208	I'll change her, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u209	In the reply, the Secretary of State has just said that it will be a decentralised exchange system. This is about online identification if you want to buy or do something within the European Union, where countries accept each other's identification system. There will be no such thing as a European ID. I find it difficult for you to table a motion on something that is not the outcome. I am fine with supporting research and I am fine with holding referendums, but not on the basis of disinformation. I've been really checking it out. I have also mapped this out as rapporteur. I believe that, as a Chamber, we should engage in the debate with the Secretary of State and the Minister and send them to Brussels with a good mandate, which means that we will not be looking at what we do not want. You continue to argue that this is an app at European level. It's not that. That's what the Secretary of State just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u210	There are a number of points on this. Unfortunately, I had to be present at another debate. We were just having a discussion about that. Unfortunately, I couldn't get to the first term. That's true. The other chairman did not allow me to speak first. That was a bit of a fuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u211	I understand. There's a practical reason for that. It's what it is. I understand you had to leave for a while, because you had another debate. But we have had a debate here. The Minister and the Secretary of State have explained this. You're missing that information. Based on the fact that you're missing information, you're going to file a motion. I think that's kind of weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u212	No, that's not true. I also have a substantive disagreement on this. I do think that trend exists. I read back your contribution at the committee meeting. You said you were really, really against it. You have made a number of comments about centrality. I should have it back for a while. I thought that was ignoring the problem. For me, the problem is not exactly how it is technically arranged. I'm afraid of the implications of the system. I think this is an important point. It also ignores the point made by the Secretary of State in its term of office. This system provides the digital infrastructure to exclude people on the basis of personal data. It doesn't matter whether it's central or decentralised. Eventually, such data will be accessible through standardisation in aggregates. This will enable government and industry to exclude people on the basis of the data available through this system. So an application is being built. There's a tendering process now. From Q4 this year onwards, a company will develop a sample wallet that can be introduced next year as an example for the wallets for Member States. So it is true that there is a technical application coming. In any case, this technical application has the possibility to exclude people from social life. I hope it doesn't happen, but I think it's very dangerous to develop such a technology because we've seen that Corona's technology has been used to that end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u213	I am really trying to follow where things are going wrong, where Mr Jansen has misunderstood something or where I may misunderstand Mr Jansen. A wallet like this has been around for a long time. It was developed by Google. It's developed by Facebook. This is a way the government has said: it would be good if you could identify yourself online so you can do business online. We already have DigiD. There's a lot to say about that, but DigiD isn't storing that data right now. For people who want to use DigiD, it means ease of use. People who don't want it or can't do it can still do it online. We have made that condition. I think Mr Jansen is right that there are certainly Brussels bureaucrats who would like this, as Mr Jansen says. That is easy and they sell it as a convenience. But that's not on the table right now. That's what's bothering me. We have had a debate here. As rapporteur, I have drawn up a list of what we are talking about when we talk about the eID. We just discussed it with the Secretary of State. So that is different from what Mr Jansen is presenting here and what he is presenting in his motion. You do not have to explain it again, because I simply do not understand what you mean, other than that it is disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u214	Maybe I should explain it again. It's not disinformation. The European Union has the model it takes one step at a time, it creates a problem and then it requires the next step. At the beginning, the previous cabinet firmly believed that there should never be central European debt. Rut swore that would never happen. Hoekstra swore that would never happen. Then there was a crisis. Then that situation forced us to introduce Eurobonds through the coronabonds. That is what the European Union is doing. I therefore warn against the future scenario in which there is digital infrastructure that can be used... It's being developed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u215	Don't yell from the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u216	It's private, but that doesn't make it any less scary. I don't want the big business to know everything about us and decide everything about us. That is what I mentioned in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u217	Mr. Van Raan, do you really have a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u218	I would like to make the point that I have never seen a party submit all sorts of motions asking the government to do something and then at the same time, in one effort, submit, at once, a motion of censure which clearly reflects that... Either Mr Jansen does not take his own motions seriously with the request, or he does not take his motion of censure seriously. But taking both seriously at the same time, that's almost impossible. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u219	I thought it was a nice shape. In that respect, it is a creative proposal. I hope, of course, that the Chamber will agree to reject the digital identity. I even hope that the government will say: we have made a mistake; we are not going to do it because Mr Jansen's arguments have convinced us and we are going to do something else. Of course, that would be what I hope. I would have enormous confidence in this government, but if this government continues with this plan, then I have no confidence in this government. That's what that motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u221	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u222	So much for the second term of office. I'm gonna suspend until 4:35 p.m. and then we're gonna listen to the ministers and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u223	I proposed to the Minister of Justice that she do something else, because there was only one motion in her area. This motion will undoubtedly be commented on by the remaining Minister or Secretary of State. I actually want to get through it real fast. So I only allow the first petitioner's interruptions by motion. That's it. I'd like to give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to try to do it quickly, but I'd like to touch briefly on the questions that still stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u225	You can do that with a yes or no, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u226	Yeah, but I don't think the questions are yes or no. Do you? Anyway... DENK asked a question about the external test at the ADR based on the inventory of the motion in part No. 21. Why the ADR? Because they are independent and they have experience in this investigation. They can also use the same review framework, because they are already looking at this issue. Furthermore, they have already done the review for the Ministry of Social Affairs. Mrs Van Weerdenburg asked if we could do the work agenda before Princess Day. I'm afraid I'm not going to make it, because of course I want to be careful with colleagues in the cabinet. I'll do it as soon as I can, but I'm afraid Princess Day isn't feasible. Then there was another question from the Forum for Democracy about the eID, the wallet and the procurement. The European Commission has published a call for tenders to make a wallet prototype. That prototype could be submitted until 22 July. It can be used by other Member States, but it does not have to be used. We have not put forward any specific parties to this. Mrs Rajkowski asked whether the overall analysis of the information plans was well in time for the budget debate. This year we cannot do that, because it is scheduled for November. So it is not possible for the first budget debate on Digital matters on 5 October, but I did, of course, agree to do so as soon as possible. I'd like to see if we can fine-tune it a little better next year, so we can go along. I will also answer the last question quickly and that is the question of DENK about the inventory of algorithms in municipalities. A review of the algorithms of the government is being carried out. In line with this, we also do an inventory of municipal algorithms if they fall within the policy area. We will therefore see how we can involve the ADR in the external test. Then I'll move on to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u227	A short question from Mr Van Baarle. Very briefly! Short question, short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u228	Very briefly indeed, Mr President. Municipalities, of course, also apply algorithms outside of what they have to do legally. This only sees what municipalities have to do legally from the government. Shouldn't this question be broader than just this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u229	We are working with what we are currently responsible for. Later, when the Dutch Data Protection Authority is also the algorithm watchdog, it will fall under her. But in this inventory we take what we agreed in the motion and that is all that has to do with the policy area of the government, partly implemented by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u230	Fine. The first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u231	The first motion is Mr Bontenbal's motion on item No. 868. That motion will be judged by Chamber. The second motion is Mr Cedar's motion in respect of item No. 869. As far as I'm concerned, he's gonna get a judgment room too. We are already working on a step-by-step plan for acceleration and we want to get on with it. Then there is the Cedar/Leijten motion in part No. 870. You are asking for a specific law, but we are already doing so, namely at EU level. There will be a law that actually applies to the Dutch government. If I may interpret it that way, this motion may have a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u232	She might actually be superfluous and then we could just take her over. Then we don't have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u233	That's right. The legal obligation we make is regulated at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u234	Can we take over and not vote on it? I see that everyone agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u235	Okay. Then we go to the fourth motion, the Leijten/Ceder motion in part No. 871. I'm giving that motion judgment room. I will include this issue in the work agenda. The motion in part No. 873 by Mrs Bouchallichh c.s. is also not recommended. We want, of course, to ensure that we do as much of the work as possible, in line with the question that Mr Van Baarle has just asked. We are monitoring the implementation of this inventory in ministries and also in municipalities, where they are part of the chains, but we are not going to do a whole inventory next to it. Of course, the algorithm authority will be responsible for this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u236	Mrs. Bouchallichh, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u237	A very brief response, Mr. Chairman. I just want to say that I am also trying with this motion to get the Secretary of State to work more with these municipalities. I hope to be able to come up with that in other combinations as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u238	Yes. Let me now turn to the motion for a resolution on part No. 874.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u239	We are certainly going to work with municipalities, because that is extremely important and that is what we are doing. The motion-Rajkowski c.s. in piece No. 874 I would like to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u240	Fine. I'll see if there's any objection. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u241	The Van Haga/Van Weerdenburg motion in part No. 875 I'd like to give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 876 does my colleague. The Van Baarle c.s. motion. in piece No. 877 I'd like to give judgment Chamber. It is important to know that the issue of non-discrimination at European level is already included in the AI Act, i.e. the legislation on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u242	And so the motion is actually superfluous and can be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u243	The motion in part No. 876 will be here in a minute. This is about the motion in part No. 877?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u244	Yes. Can it be taken over? Is there any objection to that? Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u245	That is the motion that calls for a law to be passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u246	Yes, to send a bill to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u247	My point is precisely that these European regulations do not contain enough concrete evidence. I would like you to make a law that obliges Dutch companies and the Dutch government in a concrete way to take guarantees. If you interpret her like that, I don't agree to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u248	My point is that we have this European legislation that is in the making and in which it is going to be... We are still negotiating on this, but that is what this subject is about. He'll be here soon. It is even intended to be completed this year. Hopefully, that'll work. Then that's in there, too. So there's gonna be a law that says this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u249	Then we'll just say "judge room." I think that's the safest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u250	Whatever. Then the motion to part No. 878. It's actually unnecessary or we could take her over. Binding criteria is what is in article 22 of the GDPR. It says, "The person concerned has the right..." Well, I'm not going to read it all, but I'd say this motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u251	And so I'd like to suggest that we take her over. Is everyone okay with that? Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u252	No, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Baarle does not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u253	Okay, fine. Then we don't. Then I'd like an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u254	Allow me to explain, Mr. Chairman. Look, this was an opinion from the Council of State. The general principles of the General Administrative Law are not contained in binding criteria: in what situation is a person involved and in what situation not? I would like to see these binding criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u255	However, Article 22 of the GDPR specifically states how that is arranged, that you have the right... and so on, and so on, and so on. My point is that this is simply superfluous. It's already taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u256	But then what is your appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u257	Then it's up to the Chamber, because it's already settled, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u258	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u259	We can take her. That might be easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u260	Yes, but we can't, because the author doesn't agree. We're going to the motion in part no. 879.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u261	The motion in part No. 879 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u262	Then the motion can also be called superfluous. In this way, we will continue to vote on motions that do nothing. I think we should stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u263	I agree with that 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u264	Well, I'll tell you. Anyway, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u265	This is about the motion in part No. 878. I proposed that the Secretary of State should take over, because we would not have to vote on it. But the author disagrees. So that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u266	Is it perhaps a good proposal that the author should consult me on this for a moment? Then we can make sure it's clear to him what's going on. I think it's completely unnecessary. That's how we can do it. So if you hold the motion, we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u267	It seems to me to be the best solution to hold the motion for a resolution. I'll consult with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u268	At the request of Mr Van Baarle, I propose his motion (26643, No. 878). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u269	All right. I'll come to the motion in part No. 880. We want to dissuade them. My colleague Hugo de Jonge is working very hard on this subject. By the way, we're very happy to do that with all of us. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs and myself are also involved in this issue. The motion in part No. 881 can get judgment room. It is good to examine the possibility of a ban. This is about those loot boxes. We can investigate it, but it is not certain that the outcome will ultimately be that we can also ban it. That's what we need to look at. But we get the call that's being made with this. The Digital Budget motion in part No. 882 gets judgment, Room. I'm now jumping to the motion in part number. 886. I'd like to dissuade them. The question is whether there is a need for this. Of course we do all kinds of inventory. That is why we have chosen this instrument. Those who don't want to do it don't have to do it. That is why we consider this unnecessary and want to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. We also want to discourage 887. We do not want to do everything in our power to prevent such a digital identity. We believe that it is very useful and very good, especially with a view to protecting citizens and consumers. So this motion is dissuaded. The judgment on the motion in part No. Of course, 888 is left to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u270	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u271	Mr. Chairman. I'm at the motion in part No. 876, by Mr Van Haga. With an interpretation I am committed to calling it "I could give that motion judgment Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u272	The problem is that Mr Van Haga is not here. And he's the only one who can confirm or deny that interpretation. So, problem, problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u273	Then I have to discourage the motion, and that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u274	Then the motion is in part No. 876. Fine. We're going to the motion in part no. 883.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u275	I should also advise against this motion, because it is impossible to determine the climate impact of all initiatives in the work agenda. However, the Ministry of EZK is investigating the relationship between the impact of digitalisation on climate and vice versa. May I interpret this motion as follows? I'm gonna share the results of that investigation with your room and we're gonna see where we stand. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I would be able to give her a Chamber of Appeal. But in its present form, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u276	But Mr Van Raan is also absent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u277	Dan: Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u278	Then the motion is in part No. 883 dissuade, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u279	The same applies to the motion on item No. 884. Mr Van Raan is moving too quickly towards a solution. We are doing all we can to see how we can understand how digital technology can contribute, but it is too soon to say in advance that we need to impose a certain tax on it. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 885 also belongs to Mr Van Raan. I'm gonna have to dissuade them, too. We stand for strong encryption. This is also stated in the cabinet position of 2016. It highlights the importance of letter secrecy and the confidentiality of electronic communications, as well as the need for solutions for detection. In that investigation, an inventory is made of the legitimate access to encrypted evidence. I don't want to anticipate that, so that's why the motion gets judgment Chamber. Then I'm out of line. No, the verdict is "dissuade"! Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u280	Yes. Almost, almost, almost went wrong. So far. There's one more thing I have to do in terms of formality. The motion in part No. 888 is a motion of censure. Since recently we have just done it on Tuesdays during the regular votes, unless there is an objection on the part of the Chamber. So if you say 'we absolutely want to vote on this today', you can do so, but you need to have a majority decision on your part. My decision is that we do it Tuesday. If you disagree, you will be voting me out in an order debate. That is not the case. Then we'll just vote on it on Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State, the Minister and the Minister who is now absent for their commitment and willingness today. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-30-tweedekamer-8.u281	We'll vote on all motions on Tuesday. So far.
