ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the follow-up to the Enlargement Act on administrative instruments for education (35920). I understand that there has been a very wide-ranging debate in the first term, that there has also been a written response from the cabinet in the first term and that we are now continuing with the second term on the part of the Chamber. I have consulted the Minister and he will also provide for a second-term assessment of the amendments that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mrs Westerveld has the floor and she will speak on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u3	I've got five minutes, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u4	You have a third of the first-term speaking time, so that is five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank goodness, Mr. Chairman. We can talk about a legislative proposal which is moving well, because there was indeed an extensive first deadline, there were all kinds of amendments and a note of amendment has been made. As a Chamber, of course, we are fully involved in this and that is the way it should be, because a legislative proposal must be properly and thoroughly dealt with. As I said in the first term, we support the extension of the powers conferred on the Minister by this law. It is a good thing that the Minister can intervene if there is malpractice in educational institutions and if this has been the case for a long time. I also think it is important that we do more to prevent the Minister from having to intervene, so in the front. Instead of just outside inspection, there should also be an important role for participation and, of course, for supervisors. I have already said a few things about this in my first term. For example, I have also indicated that participation should actually have the right to consent to remuneration, i.e. remuneration, of supervisors. We have tabled an amendment on this. There are a number of reasons why I would want that. First of all, I find it strange that supervisors set their own remuneration. I also hope that this will lead to better accountability for what they are doing. A third reason is that we are responsible together for the proper use of educational money. The Minister said that this does not really fit in with this bill. I do not have the impression that he has retained the substance as well. I would ask him to look at this again. I hope he will then be able to give a positive opinion on this amendment. Mr. Chairman. As I have just said, I think it is important not only that the powers of the Minister should be extended, but also that we should extend the powers of participation, the internal supervisory authority, sometimes called the watchdog........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We have tabled two new amendments on that today. With apologies, I say to the colleagues, but sometimes it's quite a jigsaw. The first amendment gives participation the right to instruct the competent authority to dismiss a member of the board in the event of maladministration. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. One reason is that no one benefits more from good education than the students, the teachers, the students and the parents. So let this participation be able to intervene rather if things at a school really don't go well. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, there is also a role for the administration itself to involve participation better and more proactively. We all know that good participation only comes about when there is a willing director, who also listens to what participation brings about. That is why we are tabling an amendment which obliges directors to better point out the rights and obligations they have. That may also be a bit of a reflection of the interrupting debate I had with Mr Beertema last time, about what you can and can not ask for participation. The fact that they have enough time to do their job, but also, of course, that they are well and proactively informed and that they are sometimes reminded of what they are entitled to, is part of this. That is what this amendment is about. That has just been submitted, I would just like to say to colleagues. Finally, Mr President. There were some questions that remained open about the non-cost education. In short, the Minister said that there is no financing relationship with non-cost education. That is also apparent from the name. That's why only the law on compulsory education applies. The inspection can intervene and take away a school's status. The inspection can't do that until the school has already been set up and started. I asked the Minister in the first term what we could do at the front, so at the start. Suppose there are clear signs that the school is going to proclaim anti-legal or undemocratic ideas. Is it true that current legislation lacks some sort of gatekeeper function? What can the Minister do with these signals? I would like a more comprehensive answer to that. Mr. Chairman. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response. We have been talking about this bill for a long time as a Chamber. In every scandal that takes place at a school, there are various parties, from both the opposition and the coalition, who ask the minister: take action. That is why it is a good thing that we have a legislative proposal and that we are talking about it in detail. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at our proposals, not only in order to be able to intervene better and earlier as a minister, but also to lay down some more powers at the co-determination council, the pupils, the parents, the students and the teachers. No one benefits more from good education than they do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you. I call Mr Van Baarle. He will speak on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats looks back on a very nice, substantive and meaningful plenary debate that we have had with each other. In that debate, we were able to resolve the necessary uncertainties together. I therefore believe that we, as a Chamber, have taken good responsibility for the thorough handling of legislation. That's good. Mr. Chairman. In the first term, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I described the original legislative proposal as heavy. I have also mentioned the Minister's attitude in this regard. Just before this debate, we saw a letter of amendment in which the Minister returned to a number of developments in the law, including the deletion of the word'serious' in the event of maladministration and instead put the word 'actual' in place. It does not mean that I am going to give my group a positive opinion on the legislative proposal, but I would nevertheless like to say that it is to the credit of the government and the Minister that this letter of amendment responds to the criticism of a lot of Members of Parliament on these points. That does not remove all our objections. As a result, I am not going to give a positive opinion on the bill. But I do like that step taken. A word of appreciation for that. Mr. Chairman. Our group continues to have a number of problems with this bill. They see on the urgent instructions, which we do not consider proportionate. They see that an evaluation has not been carried out properly before we go to this administrative toolbox. And they see that we consider a number of steps in the legislative proposal to be sufficient at all, so that we do not consider the further steps that are being taken necessary. This means that I will give negative advice to my group on the legislative proposal that is now before us. I had prepared a motion in which I asked the government to inform the Chamber when the urgent instructions were put in place. But Mr Peters has already tabled an amendment on that point, so I am not tabling that motion. Well, I do have another motion. It is aware of the question that we are now asking the inspection to maintain when acting in violation of the citizenship mandate and the basic values of the democratic rule of law, but in practice it may be rather unclear what that is. That is why it is important that we tighten up the inspection framework at this point. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal on administrative enforcement tools empowers education to give an indication in the event of maladministration by acting in violation of the citizenship mandate, which leads or threatens to undermine one or more basic values of the democratic rule of law;]] [[noting that an urgent warning can also be given on this basis if there is a substantial presumption of maladministration;]] [[Whereas the citizenship mission and its impact on the transfer of basic democratic values are concepts of great importance, but in practice they may also be surrounded by ambiguity or a difference of interpretation;]] [[considers that it is important for the educational inspection to be independent, but that it does require direction in relation to the question to be assessed;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to provide the concept of basic values of the democratic rule of law in relation to the citizenship mission with a more practical framework in relation to the powers of this law, in order to provide greater clarity for educational institutions and the education inspection, and to include this in the research frameworks of the education inspection;]] [[calls on the Government also to consider whether the research frameworks of the education inspection need to be more specific in a broader sense as a result of the present legislative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35920-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you. I call Mr De Hoop. He will speak on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u10	Mr. Chairman. Freedom of education goes a long way. But it must never ensure that children and students in our country receive poor education. It must never ensure that pupils, students or teachers are unsafe or excluded. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this should not affect the limits of the rule of law. In the preparation of this bill, I looked back on several debates that we had here in the Chamber about schools where it went wrong: Gomarus, VMBO Maastricht, SvPO and Cornelius Haga Lyceum. In one of those debates, Lodewijk Asscher said it very strikingly: if drugs are found in a café, the café closes immediately. But if anti-democratic, anti-integrative ideas are taught at a Dutch school to children in puberty, poison is spread and an extremist religious world is taught outside school hours, then we stand in powerlessness. It can't be. The Labour Party believes that education should be cheerful, pleasant and safe for every child. This requires an extension of the Minister's instruments. In the first period, however, we have cracked critical notes about these instruments, particularly the second letter of amendment, about how the Minister dealt with them, but also about how the Chamber has not yet given a written round in them. I regret that, because that does not help with careful legislation. But I also very much appreciate the tightening up and clarification given by the Minister to the Chamber: additional tightening up of the duty to state reasons, an inspection report to show that the conditions have been met, and the change of'reasonable presumption' to 'proper suspicion'. Mr. Chairman. There's still a concern with my party and it's about academic freedom. The Minister's written reply shows that he can intervene at public universities, but not at Christian universities, such as VU and Radboud University. Is it true that Article 9.9a of the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act ensures that he also has a designation at the Christian universities? It also appears from the written round that we in the Chamber give different interpretations when the Minister should be able to give such an urgent instruction. I know that Mr Van Meenen and Mr Beertema also indicated that you would actually like that in a flexible shell. Quite apart from my political conviction, I think that is far-reaching. This is also apparent from the Minister's reply. He says it doesn't fit. I do think that we need to be clear about this. I have asked a number of questions about academic freedom, with a number of concerns. That is why I am tabling one more motion with Mr Westerveld of GroenLinks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas academic freedom in universities is a major asset which should not be indirectly compromised;]] [[noting that universities fear that the present legislative proposal does indeed infringe institutional autonomy and hence academic freedom;]] [[calls on the Government to include explicit protection of academic freedom each time in the consideration of whether an urgent instruction at universities is proportionate and desirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Hoop and Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35920-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u11	First of all, before any misunderstanding arises, I would like to point out that I spoke about the flexible shell in response to what Mr Beertema said. He called it one of the things that goes wrong at a university. I don't think a clue is a good cure at all. Let me be absolutely clear about that. Then there are two amendments on academic freedom, which I do not quite understand. It seems that maladministration under the blanket of academic freedom can simply exist. That is how I read these amendments. Now I hear this motion and I understand much better what Mr De Hoop means, namely: be careful about academic freedom. But Mr De Hoop does not want academic freedom to be a cover for maladministration wherever it is at any university. Can we agree on that? My second question is this: will the amendments lapse with this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u12	I fully agree with Mr Van Meenen on this point. But the answer already shows that there has never been a reason for the Minister to intervene in the universities with the powers he already has. We can see that academic freedom is under pressure in some places. Yesterday, during the discussion about gas drilling in Groningen, a scientist said that he could not criticize TU Delft and the Ministry of Economic Affairs he would have given about the gas drilling. I believe that academic freedom should stand up, even when the Minister can intervene. You are right that I have tabled my motion for a reason. I have tabled my motion because I believe that this is a way of getting rid of my concern and that it would allow me to withdraw my amendments. I would therefore like it very much if the Minister saw and indicated that: in this way I would like to include your concern, the concern of the Labour Party and GroenLinks. Then the care for me falls away. In that sense, I think Mr Van Meenen and I like each other. Why I mentioned that flexible shell is because it was addressed in the debate. It was not necessarily about the interruption debate you had with the PVV. I also did it because Mr Beertema referred to it in a tweet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u13	Has everything been cleared up, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u14	That's how misunderstandings get into the world! Never read Mr. Beertema's tweets. It's all disinformation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u15	I'm gonna have to read it less too. You're right about that. That's gonna drive you crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u16	Please don't involve Mr. Beertema. Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u17	May I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u18	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u19	I think we can agree on that motion, much better than on the amendments. I will, of course, await the Minister's judgment. Once again, the amendments impress me, and also others, that they create a kind of licence to allow maladministration under the guise of academic freedom, not just the flexible shell but real forms of maladministration, which we discussed today and last time. They still have to be accessible. Academic freedom must never be a free pass for that. I think we can agree on that. That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u20	To make it clear one more time, I agree with you. I believe that freedom of education should never lead to this. But I also believe that legislation should be proportionate. If we see that it has not happened in all these years and that the Minister has never had to use the instruments he already has, then you can say that it is quite far-reaching. That's why I filed the motion. That doesn't make my concern go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you. I call Mr Bishop. He will speak on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a word of appreciation towards the Minister. I think it has been a good thing that we have had a short break in the legislative process. It used to shred a little bit in the discussion in the first term. Sometimes there was some misunderstanding on the line. By offering the opportunity to ask questions in writing and to answer them neatly, a lot of noise on the line has simply been removed. That's valuable. This is part of a careful legislative process, hence my appreciation towards the ruler. He also shows that he is willing to listen to concerns expressed. I think this is particularly valuable for a ruler. He takes the step to adjust certain things after all. That only makes it clearer. My appreciation for that. We agree with the changes that have been made. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution to wind up the debate. 19 wants to move in. I see that amendment adequately in the letter of amendment. Unfortunately, that doesn't apply...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u23	The amendment tabled by Mr Bishop (Doc. 19) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u24	Unfortunately, this does not apply to the other two amendments. The SGP remains critical of the course of this legal process. There is now a whole scheme comparing the different versions of the proposal. It would actually make sense for the Education Council to have another look at that. I see in the written reply that the Minister is aware of the role of the Education Council, but it would be good to have our permanent advisory council look again at the proposal that is now before us. In the course of this legal process, it is becoming increasingly clear that the key question is how far the system responsibility of the minister actually reaches. There is no doubt that legal provisions must be observed, that we want good and good education and that freedom of education must never or never be a cover for malpractice, unsafe situations, poor education or whatever. With regard to the system of responsibility of the Minister, does the role of the Minister now also apply in very specific individual situations? The Minister spoke of "insinuation" that he could intervene at the micro level of the individual pupil at a specific school. But if I look at the written answer, I can see that the Minister actually confirms that intervention by a single pupil is possible. The SGP continues to find it worrying that we move from a strict link to systemic problems to involvement in individual situations. It is creative to see this as a system responsibility, but that really means a serious break in thinking about it so far. Officials also rightly see the disadvantages of such a wide-ranging competence of the Minister. So I don't think it's supposed to be, but maybe the Minister can reflect on that again. I admit that, on the other hand, the government underlines that intervention must always be linked to administrative failure. That is an important observation. The SGP therefore takes the view that this principle is not clearly reflected in the law. The definition of "maladministration" refers to the actual situation in which there is a lack of will or inability to act as a criterion. Why should the legislator not make it more explicit that this is the criterion? That just makes things clearer, doesn't it? In the first term, the Minister said that a board would immediately disqualify itself if a very serious security incident occurred. Unfortunately, the SGP notes that the Minister repeats this statement in writing and in other words. He writes that the competent authority does not function properly if a fundamental legal obligation is infringed. I think the Minister's saying a lot of things about that. I think it is a frightening misconception that bears witness to a great deal of creative thinking. I would like to be given a more detailed explanation on the basis of practical practice. Does the Minister think that there can never be a serious accident or incident at a school where security policy has been worked out? Does the Minister consider that, for example, unacceptable and disastrous bullying behavior between two pupils, despite its subtle nature, can always be discovered by the school? Let us prevent schools from becoming victims of superhuman expectations. According to the Minister, only the suspension of one or more directors is possible in the event of an emergency. That sounds clear, but is the difference between dismissal and suspension always sufficiently clear? At first glance, of course, because everyone knows what the difference is. But what, for example, should a supervisory board do if a suspension can last even a year? Doesn't that lead to unworkable situations? Mr. Chairman. The SGP notes with gratitude that a single publication or accusation cannot justify the suspicion of maladministration by far. This requires a much more extensive, own research, even in the event of an emergency. It would be good if there were sufficient clarity as to the procedure used by the inspection in the designation and urgent procedure. The SGP reads that educational and teaching vision, religion or belief must be taken into account in an urgent instruction, but that it is not decisive. That's gonna take some explaining. Can the Minister confirm that, even in the case of repair orders and instructions, freedom of direction remains sufficiently valid, regardless of whether it concerns the educational or philosophical basis? Finally, Mr President. The SGP sees all kinds of objections to the introduction of the Committee on Social Responsibility in the fundamental education system. As far as we're concerned, let's not go down that road, with everything that's already there, and with everything we'd have to do before that. I believe that there are sufficient instruments to keep an eye on this aspect in schools. Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you. Mrs Paul has the floor. She will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Several colleagues have already referred to the fact that we have had a strong but good debate in terms of content. I would like to thank the Minister and his team for all the preparations for the law that is now before us, and also for the debate itself. In my first-term contribution, I said that we all want children to be safe and free at school here in the Chamber. There's no discussion about that. I also stressed, and I do so again, that in the vast majority of all schools, fortunately, this is the case. Unfortunately, there are also situations where children are not safe and free. Then as a government you simply have to have the tools to protect students and ensure good education. The Enlargement Act provides administrative tools education for this. This law ensures that, in the fortunately very exceptional situations where this is necessary, the Minister can act quickly and firmly on the basis of an inspection report. The VVD Group therefore welcomes this law, because we are convinced that it will protect and help our children. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you. I call Mr Bertema. He will speak on behalf of the PVV. I hear he doesn't need a second term. I call Mr Van Meenen. He will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u28	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. We hadn't gotten to that yet, because the first term ended unexpectedly last time. I actually thank all of us for the space that has been there for another round of questions. I think it has given a lot of clarity and more connection. The same applies to the binding letter of amendment. It is, after all, very important that we have broad support in the Chamber in this type of legislation, because we are going to do something with these instruments here. At least, I never hope, but if it has to happen, it's quite something. I realize that, too. Let us be pleased that we have had that discussion in the first term too, that we are still talking about incidents here. We can still count here on the fingers of one hand the events that have asked for this kind of intervention, but where we were actually powerless together. This law will put an end to it, including as a result of the agreements we made in the coalition agreement. I am glad that we have found a common landing ground, as some here call it. At least that's what I feel. Finally, on Mrs Paul's and me's amendment. This is indeed about the sense of social responsibility. That amendment has been amended. That first had no. 18 and that is now No. 29 years old. In particular, the amendment states that the instrument introduced here, which already exists in higher education and which gives the Minister the power to intervene in my own words, at the level of the individual director or representative of an institution, is an additional instrument. In doing so, it is up to the Minister whether or not to use that instrument or a better instrument if it is in the law as it is up to now, so that we do not miss the opportunity when it is at issue. I myself think there are situations where you really need this, as we need it in higher education. That's what Mrs. Paul thinks. That is why the amendment has been amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mrs Westerveld has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u30	Yes. I have a question for Mr Van Meenen. One of the points that we look at in law is, of course, the principle of subsidiarity: is this the most obvious, easily accessible way to translate it into my own words, to which we must act legally? That is why I have tabled a number of amendments which give greater powers to participation. We are actually saying that participation should perhaps be able to intervene earlier. That's far more low-threshold than the Minister does. I know that Mr Van Meenen has said before: participation is precisely the watchdog of good education; they should be given much more instruments. I am therefore very curious to see how Mr Van Meenen looks at the amendments we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u31	I should look at this very carefully for each amendment, but in general I think that everything that can be solved within an institution itself to wrongdoing needs to be done there. It is well known that I really see the participation council as a partner in making policies at educational institutions as good as possible. I would like to say this without having the amendments in mind, but I feel a great deal of sympathy for them. I understand the reasoning, by the way. But that is without prejudice to the fact that there are situations in which it is no longer helpful or where it is precisely the participation that, for example, ends up in an unsafe situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u32	That is certainly the case, but that is why we did not table an amendment until this afternoon, for example. Earlier, we tabled an amendment, which Mr Van Meenen might know, because that was also what it was about in the first period of time in order for participation to determine the level of remuneration of supervisors. Even when we are talking about good accountability for educational money, which we are also responsible for here, it is very strange that supervisors should have to determine their own remuneration. Should we not allow participation to decide on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u33	As Mrs Westerveld knows, I think that participation councils should have a great deal to say about the use of funds. In my view, this can also relate to remuneration. When you talk about the main lines of the budget, I think this is one, to be honest. I also think that we should get rid of the specialization of directors and supervisors, but I am mainly talking about directors. I do feel sympathy, but I don't know if this is the right time to do that. Mr Kwint also had an amendment which he wanted to arrange for a moment on the spot that... Well, I don't know exactly what it was anymore, but it was something that wasn't directly about conflicts with the sense of social responsibility or with maladministration. So I'm careful about that. I'm very much in favour of these lines, but they have to be in line with the law we're dealing with. So I'm gonna keep that judgment to myself for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u34	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you, Chairman, for the coulance. Of course, this is really about legislative changes. The Quint amendment, which I am also standing under, is about the fact that we find it unacceptable that some directors and supervisors should earn much more than is allowed under the Top Income Standards Act. They do that by stacking all kinds of functions. Mr Van Meenen of D66 should also find that unacceptable. We can put an end to this per amendment. So let us do that, I would like to say to Mr Van Meenen. This is undesirable at a time when there is such an enormous workload. It's also just teaching money. That should go to class and not to a few much-earned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u36	That's what I said to Kwint last time. I think so, too. There is no misunderstanding about that. Honestly, I find it a little strange to do that in this law. I would prefer that we have a bigger debate on this. I would like us to talk about all the regulations relating to directors' remuneration and collective bargaining. I have a lot more ideas about that. I think we all have a lot of opinions on that. I think that a great debate is much more logical than taking this point off the sidelines. In my eyes, you'll miss a lot of points. I agree with the line 100%, just not with the moment. I'm gonna have to finish that struggle for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u37	I would like to ask for an explanation of the amendment tabled by Mr Van Meenen with Mr Paul. It talks about individual behaviour of a driver. These are discriminatory behaviours and statements. Is that the same thing as discrimination? That's my first question. My second question is: how does the legal prohibition of discrimination relate to discriminatory statements or behaviour? Is that the same thing? Should there have been a conviction before this mechanism enters into force? My third and final question is: what are the consequences? The judge can judge and impose a penalty, but what could be the consequences of this? What effect could this have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u38	This scheme already exists in higher education. The debate on this matter has taken place at length. That debate was also held once again in the Upper House. This has led to the setting up of a committee to give an opinion on this matter. That was done at the Minister's request. 'Cause it's a big deal. It may depend on the political colour of the minister when there really is a violation. The reason for this was the statements of the rector of the Islamic University. I always say: that was actually a college. That does not really matter in this context. There has been an attempt to find a careful process in that. On this side there is at least a consequence. There's a lot going on in criminal matters. As far as I am concerned, the Minister's intervention might indicate that this director can no longer be the director of an institution. There may be other consequences, but this seems to me to be the most obvious one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u39	I have one more question for clarification. I want to be able to weigh the amendment properly. Must there have been a conviction? Discrimination is prohibited by law. Then there's got to be a legal verdict, right? That seems to me to be the purest way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u40	I didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u41	Hohoho, Mr Segers was not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u42	Excuse me, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u43	It seems complicated to me to say 'discriminatory'. That's getting a little greyer, a little less obvious. Discrimination is prohibited. That's right. The judge will rule on that. I am simply trying to understand how the legal prohibition of discrimination and its enforcement relate to a more subjective assessment of statements and possible consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u44	There's two sides to that. It helps if there's a conviction. It may also be that there is no conviction, but that there is an unsafe situation in the institution by such a statement. I agree exactly with the regulation as it is in higher education. I don't know exactly how it's written there. I do know that it's not automatic that there just needs to be a conviction, because otherwise you wouldn't need a commission like that either. That committee must weigh all of this, precisely in the context of a safe school. It may still be within the limits of the law, but not within the limits of the sense of social responsibility, that you have extra if you are the director of an educational institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u45	I have a question along the lines of Mr Segers' question. I want to understand the amendment. When it comes to combating discrimination, you will of course find DENK by your side, but I still have the following question. On the legislative proposal, the Minister informed us, and I believe that this is one of the tightening points in the last letter of amendment, that such an indication, as Mr Van Meenen has just said, could be one of the consequences of a statement by this committee, is based on findings of inspection. This also applies to an urgent alert. It is therefore based on an inspection report and not on the findings of the committee that Mr Van Meenen intends to set up. How am I supposed to understand Mr Van Meenen's statement that the Minister can give an indication on the basis of this committee, which is not the intention of the instruments laid down in the law? It states that it must be carried out on the basis of inspection findings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u46	Look, inspection supervision generally relates to the institution as a whole, to the board as a body. This is really about an individual statement that has been made outside the context of the school. So that's really something else. And what we offer the minister here is an instrument. It is up to the Minister to use that instrument or the instruments that he gets his hands on when this law is passed, so all the way through the inspection. But this is about being able to deal with an individual representative of the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u47	I think that was also one of the things the Minister wanted to do under this law. He wanted to be able to intervene in expressions or actions of a driver that create insecurity, e.g. an emergency warning that sees a driver. But the question remains. Mr Van Meenen says that the Minister can do something on this basis, but I do not think that the Minister can do anything on the basis of this committee. The Minister can only do something on the basis of an inspection report. What instruments, apart from the urgent instructions, which can only be used on the basis of an inspection report, does the Minister have at his disposal after a ruling from that committee? I don't think that's anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u48	I think so. He can give a clue on the basis of that finding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u49	Finally, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u50	No, because I do not think there is any indication until the inspection has established that there is maladministration. And there is no urgent indication until the inspection has found that there is a substantial suspicion of maladministration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u51	But it is a question of whether this is not the case in the eyes of the Minister but in the eyes of this committee. Perhaps Mr. Van Baarle still needs to look at what the scheme is like in higher education. That committee has been put in between to prevent us from having a minister who is going to determine independently whether or not something is within the lines of discrimination. That is not really good for inspection either. So that's why there's the committee. And if that is the case, the Minister can choose to use this instrument and thus give an indication to an individual driver by that route, or to give an indication to a supervisory board to remove a driver or whatever is at issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u52	It is that it is legislation, and an amended amendment, otherwise I would have long and wide-rangingly ended this debate. Finally, Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u53	Finally. Does Mr Van Meenen then share with me the observation that the Minister can only give an indication on the basis of a committee report? If I'm wrong, I'm willing to admit it, too, but I think it is. What Mr Van Meenen says, namely that the Minister can give an indication on the basis of an expression of the committee he wishes to set up, is not possible. The Minister can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u54	Mr Van Meenen. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u55	No, I do not share that observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u56	But if it is, I do have another problem. In my view, we have now had a legal procedure, in two deadlines and with written questions, in which, in the end, it is very precise who can intervene on the basis of an investigation of the inspection. I believe that Mr Van Baalen has summarised that very well. Now I'm reading, five minutes in advance, an amendment... or, am I reading? I'll get it. I can't read it so fast and figure it out completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u57	It was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u58	I think I understand there's going to be a bypass. We now have a law here that is completely balanced. But now there is going to be a bypass and there is also a committee that can decide independently of anyone whether something is discriminatory, without knowing what that is. And on that basis, a minister is entitled to issue instructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u59	Sure. This possibility already exists in higher education. These are situations which have arisen outside the context of an educational institution. They therefore do not have to do with maladministration. Mismanagement concerns policy; maladministration is wrong policy. Let's go back to the case of the rector of the Islamic University who was actually a college. It was a question of statements which he had not made, at least in his capacity as rector of the university, because he had made them at a random meeting somewhere in the country. In higher education, it is already possible to intervene on this issue. And that's my point. That's what I want. So that's not bypass. It's an extra instrument. In the vast majority of cases, the law as it stands today, without this amendment, will provide for it. But in these situations, the law does not provide for that possibility in higher education. I don't see the difference between the MBO and the foundation education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u60	I don't care about the latter. Look, my point is this. On the one hand, we now have a law that allows the Minister to do research... that has finally come to a good conclusion, and in a moment too, I hope, by adopting Mr Segers's and me's amendment. That'll look good on paper. That's how we can handle an institution. Mr Van Meenen wants something completely different apart from that, I understand. He also wants to be able to deal with an individual for something that person says outside the school. Then may I ask you the following? You say to Mrs Westerveld: the whole bill is not about the things you want to put into the law. But it's not about this, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u61	I think it is. This is about the administrative tools that we consider necessary to create a safe situation in schools. Normally, the situation at school is determined by policies that are pursued there, by all kinds of factors. However, it may also be the case that an individual representative of the institution may make such statements by a rector, the director, a supervisor outside his direct role in that educational institution. We've had that before. This has led to the legislation currently in place for higher education. I believe that this also entails insecurity in the institution, and I want to be able to intervene on that. I believe that there are situations in which these instruments are appropriate and the instruments available to the Minister through the law as it stands are not. If the Minister sees that differently, he does not need to use this instrument. It's not like "you have to use it" or "you have to use it like this." No, that's okay. He can also choose the other way. That is also clearly stated in the explanatory statement. I would therefore like to add something to the Minister's toolbox, which I believe can be useful in any case, and I hope that it will never be necessary. Again, at least that has already happened in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u62	Finally, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u63	Finally, Mr President. The whole debate I had was directed against incident policy. I do not want the Minister, under pressure from what we do here or read in the newspaper, to give clues or visit. And now I'm reading an amendment that suddenly goes a little further. A principal of a school or any other school that doesn't matter in his spare time says something that might be discriminatory or something. We read that in the newspaper and then we come up with a motion: hey, Minister, you have to look, we have adopted this amendment; I read in the newspaper that he and that principal said something in the pub in Rotterdam-South and now, go, to that committee and tackle this guy, because the school is now unsafe. Special style figure, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u64	Well, a special style character? It just happens. It happened to that principal I mentioned earlier. I do not know how Mr Peters sees it when a rector of an institution says in his spare time that gays should simply be thrown off the top flat. I think that's something a minister should be able to do with. I don't think we disagree on that. I do not think that is provided for by the current instruments. Maybe sometimes, but in some cases not. That's why I'm adding this. This idea of "incident politics" is floating above the market all the time. Let us be happy, I have just said that this is only about incidents. In this sense, there is not something structurally wrong with Dutch education. It's not like drivers can afford all kinds of crazy things. No, I don't think so. We now have a law that will still be used exclusively, I hope, in individual situations, situations that we all say here: this cannot be done. Then the instruments must be in order. We believe that this is complete. We can think differently about that here; that's why we're here together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u65	Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u67	Great, thank you. Then we'll be with Mr Segers. He will speak on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, there was a strong and very substantive debate here. Mr Van der Graaf spoke on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Now I get to take over the stick again. I thank the Minister for the letter of amendment. We have no state education in our country; we have freedom of education. This means that you have a lot of freedom of choice, that parents have freedom of choice to choose a school that fits their pedagogical or philosophical views. That gives us a great deal of freedom. But we also have a freedom before education, with a great deal of confidence, in the professional, in the school, in the inspection, with a mechanism that, should it go wrong, is able to correct it, without political immediately jumping to the top and indeed we have the incident policy that Mr Peters just talked about. That's the kind of politics we wouldn't want. In the debate, together with other parties, we expressed our concerns about this: could this not lead to incident policy? The letter of amendment removed a large part of that concern. I would like to thank the Minister for that. We need to find a middle ground between responsibility and good education, safe education, for pupils, and preserve constitutional freedoms as we do in this country. I note in reading the letter of amendment that the Minister has responded to that concern, because with that letter of amendment, the impact on freedom of education is small, by tightening a "reasonable presumption" to a "real presumption" of maladministration. Secondly, proportionality and subsidiarity are better guaranteed by the addition of an obligation to state reasons. Thirdly, there is a stronger buffer against this policy of incidents by making demands on the content of the inspection report. In addition, Mr Peters and I have tabled an amendment to strengthen the definition of "maladministration" in relation to the citizenship mandate. The word "structural" comes back, but we also understand that there must be the possibility to intervene in exceptional, incidental, serious offences. Then we are talking about flagrant violations. That is also made possible by this amendment. Mr. Chairman. With these changes, the bill is more in balance. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister to state once again in his reply what guarantees and requirements must be met before an urgent warning can be given. In this way, we will be able to protect security and good education on the one hand, while preserving the freedom of education and freedom before education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you. I call Mr Peters. He will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I can make it quick. We have had a second-term debate in which we have had the debate at the sharpest of the cuts, with a lot of unrest and uncertainty. I think it is very sensible that we have taken a break and decided to do it again in writing. I very much welcome the second letter of amendment. I do not need to explain, but I fully agree with what Mr Segers says. Together with the amendment of CDA and Christian Union, it will be done, and I want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you. Then I'll suspend... sorry, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u72	I have a question similar to Mr Van Meenen to Mr Peters. The CDA was very critical in the first period and asked a number of questions, for example whether this law does not go too far. Isn't it contrary to the freedom of education? We have put forward a number of proposals to be able to intervene earlier and to do so by means of participation. I have said it before: it is precisely teachers, students and students who benefit most from good education. I was wondering how Mr Peters is looking at that. Is it not a better first step to be taken by means of participation in a way that is easily accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u73	I am very much in favour of subsidiarity. Mrs Westerveld will understand that. I'll check it out with those glasses. The amendment is a very short one. Understandable in terms of content, but not in this place. I thought the same of the amendment I just heard, so the same answer as Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u74	Mrs Westerveld, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u75	One of the few debates where we have unlimited speaking time and can really have a discussion with each other is precisely a legislative debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u76	We'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u77	I always find it an annoying argument when it is said: that does not belong here. It is precisely in a debate on legislation that we have room, both in the first and in the second term. Here are also a number of notes of amendment, so with the argument that it should not be here, I have some difficulty. That is not personal to Mr Peters, because the Minister also responded in writing to one of our amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u78	I understand that effort, but I can take any bill to amend anything that fits the whole education bill. I would like to do that kind of thing with care, as we are doing this legislative process carefully here. I don't rule out ending up with the same thing, but I am in favour of careful treatment. Let's call that "new governance culture."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u79	Thank you. Two motions have been tabled. In my view, six more amendments must be considered when my administration is in order. A number of questions have also been asked. I shall suspend until 15.55 p.m., and then we will really try to bring this legislative consultation to an end with all due care at 4.30 p.m. The following legislation can then be dealt with as carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u80	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education to answer the questions, to assess two motions and to assess the six amendments which have not yet been delivered. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u81	Mr President, thank you. It is a good practice to thank the Chamber for the questions asked in the first term. I will, but not until I have thanked my officials for answering all the first-term questions, but also after that in the written round. I thank them not only for their answers and their quality, but also for the speed with which they have done so. That's unbelievable. I was impressed. I thought "we're not gonna make it," but they did make it and even received compliments from your room for that. I'd like to keep it warm, and I thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to thank the Chamber for the questions that have been put and for the debate that we have had. In fact, it is also part of this type of important change, which has been the subject of many discussions here in the Chamber in the past. That's what we're supposed to do. We have therefore had an extensive exchange of views on the question of when to give a clue. I am going to say some general things about the changes we have made to your questions. Then I shall return to the appreciation of the amendments I have missed. I am going to answer the questions that have yet to be asked, and finally I come to the two motions that have been tabled. I come to the question of when to give a clue. I say'must' because we all believe that there have been situations in the past where intervention could not or took too long. A clue isn't nothing. The administration is in fact partially or sometimes completely relieved of its duties. That requires a balance, because not every incident should lead to a clue. But the bar for a clue should not be so high that it is at the expense of the ability to act. This raises the question of when we consider that the student's interest goes beyond the importance of the management. And that question, translated into practice, is what needs to be demonstrated before a clue can be given? I indicated a few weeks ago that there are strict conditions before an indication or an urgent warning can be given. But I have also heard the doubt of the Chamber. That is why I have sent your Chamber a letter of amendment to clarify where those limits lie. Clarity is essential here. Can I give an independent clue or an urgent instruction, was one of the questions. No, I can only do that if the inspection has established in a report that the conditions for this have been met. This requirement has been explicitly added to the law with the third letter of amendment, both for the regular designation and for the urgent designation. For the regular indication and the urgent indication it has also been clarified that this is really an ultimum remedium. If the inspection finds that there is maladministration, I can give an indication. Before I give a clue, I consider whether there are any less far-reaching possibilities. That consideration will be part of the reasoning behind my lead. This too has now been explicitly included as a condition in the law. The next question is whether the conditions for the use of the instruments are sufficiently heavy. This is particularly true in the case of emergency instructions. Should there now be a serious or reasonable suspicion of maladministration? Does a reasonable suspicion give too much space or a serious suspicion too little space? With the letter of amendment, I have chosen the middle route: an essential presumption. I think it is important that the instruments remain effective, in the interests of students and students. It is still a matter of instruments which, of course, only apply to offenders. At the same time, I also see the importance of care and of the autonomy of schools and institutions. An urgent instruction is, of course, a rather violent intervention. In my opinion, everything is sufficiently clear to prevent me or one of my successors being able to give an urgent warning. Following the letter of amendment, the main safeguards are as follows: the inspection establishes an infringement of the law; there is a substantial presumption of maladministration; there is an immediate urgency. The latter is about the short-term consequences if public intervention is not achieved. These consequences must be very serious. If that is not the case, then there is no immediate emergency. The inspection shall draw up a report showing that these conditions are met, and I shall justify my indication that there are no less far-reaching possibilities. I believe that there is a well-balanced legislative proposal, based on the careful weighting here in the Chamber, which strikes a balance between the autonomy of the administration and the right of pupils and students to good education. As Mr Segers said, that is the combination of freedom of education and education. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the amendments. In fact, most of the specific points of concern or discussion are covered. I shall now turn to the amendment to item No. 22, in place of Amendment No 22, to replace Amendment No 22, to replace Amendment No 22, to replace Amendment No 22, to replace Amendment No 22, to replace Amendment No 22, to replace Amendment No 22, to replace Amendment No 22, to This is a technical change to the earlier document No. 13 amendment tabled. Therefore, the appreciation I gave in the first term remains: Judgment Chamber. Then I come to a new amendment. That is the amendment to item No. Mr Segers and Mr Peters. This amendment provides for maladministration in the event of a breach of the citizenship mandate only in the event of a structural breach of the citizenship mandate or an occasional flagrant breach of the citizenship mandate. In fact, this amendment fixes what I have already said in the explanatory memorandum to the first letter of amendment. I quote: 'Although it extends the scope of this provision, in practice it will still normally be the case that the Minister only resorts to the power of designation if it appears that the competent authority does not want or can end a serious offence. This can be demonstrated by the duration of the infringement or by the fact that a recovery order has not been followed. In those cases, therefore, there is a structural breach within the meaning of the original legislative proposal." Secondly: "However, there may also be cases which may involve incidental offences, but which are so serious that they directly give rise to a severe sanction as an indication. A theoretical example is a competent authority that once promotes very anti-legal views." This amendment is in line with the intention of the legislative proposal. Thank you to the proposers. With that I can give this amendment judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 25, in place That is a technical amendment to the earlier amendment to item No. 13. Appreciation remains the same: Judgment Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 26 by Mr Bishop to replace Amendment No 26 by Mr Bishop (Doc. 20. This amendment is a technical amendment to the earlier amendment to item No. 20. The appreciation I gave in the first term, therefore remains: dissuade. With the third letter of amendment, I replaced the measure of "reasonable suspicion of maladministration" with "actual suspicion of maladministration." I believe I have found an appropriate measure. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer The amendment proposes giving participation a power to dismiss directors in the event of maladministration. That is a very far-reaching proposal, which does not fit in well with the way in which we have now regulated the governance of schools and institutions. The internal supervisor has the task of overseeing governance and administrative action. If there is maladministration, it is therefore up to the internal supervisory authority to address it. The internal supervisor is an employer of the board and can also dismiss members if there is maladministration. Giving participation a leave of absence actually makes it an employer of the board. This is a major change in the governance of schools and institutions. Participation will then actually fulfil the role of the internal supervisor. In this sense, the amendment can have a crippling effect on driving. But whether that is so and how it works, it does require careful consideration, in my appreciation. I am in favour of strong participation, as Mrs Westerveld knows, but in the right balance between the different bodies within a school or institution. I must therefore discourage this very far-reaching amendment. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from This amendment stipulates that the board should be more proactive in informing participation on matters of concern to the school and on the rights of participation. I think it is important to protect participation as well. That was agreed in the coalition agreement. This amendment fits in well with that. I would like to thank Mrs Westerveld for that. I give the amendment to item No. 28 Judgment Room. Then I come to the last amendment, the amendment to item No. 29, replacing the abovementioned amendment to item No. 18 members Van Meenen and Paul. I see that the amendment has been improved compared to the previous version. I appreciate that. We are no longer talking about compulsory advice or a committee that also judges within the school. I understand the need to intervene with drivers who are way out of line. I would like to mention the example of the Islamic University of Rotterdam, which is, moreover, a university, as Mr Van Meenen rightly says, which was also a thorn in my eyes and on which I, as a Member of Parliament, have often spoken. We also saw that the D.A. couldn't always take all the steps on the basis of criminal law. That was a pretty complicated case. But I understand that need. I must say, however, that I still believe that this is also the substantive analysis I gave in replying to the written questions, which provides the current instruments with sufficient tools to intervene. In basic education and in MBO, we also have the citizenship mission on which the inspection can already be maintained. The comparison with higher education does not go far enough in this sense, because that citizenship mission does not apply there. I do not want the committee and the inspection to compete with each other when it comes to who is to be deployed when and who is to be moved. This does not improve the effectiveness of the law. That takes more thought. So I already have a way, with this law, to intervene if things really go wrong with a driver. Mr Van Baarle rightly said that. And although the amendment to item No. So 29 has improved, I'll have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u82	The amendment in part No. 29 is not recommended. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u83	Is it not true that the law, even without this amendment, only controls the competent authority? We hear the Minister uses his explanatory statement every time. It is the administrative body for which you can provide a clue, for which you can encounter a funding sanction etc. This amendment concerns the individual driver who also makes discriminatory statements outside the context of the institution. That's a completely different situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yeah, there's got to be an offense. It must intervene in school culture and thus make the connection with that school. But then there are possibilities with this law to intervene, especially in such a situation, even in the case of one of the drivers. The designation may apply to all or part of the board. There are possibilities for differentiation, depending on where the problem is taking place, where the offence is being committed, or where there is a suspicion that it is being made. It may also be the suspicion that there has been maladministration in the framework of, for example, the citizenship mandate. Then it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u85	Finally, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u86	I really doubt that. Here there are indications which relate to the Ministry again, the Minister also repeats it every time in his reply to the competent authority. That's the board in its entirety. You might be able to involve the Supervisory Board. In my view, therefore, it is not about the individual driver. You also cannot apply a financial sanction for an individual driver. You can only do that at an institution. That is also what this law provides for without this amendment. I'm actually fighting what the Minister says. I therefore ask him to show me where the law states that this may also concern individual drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u87	I do not have the whole law here with that exact article, but I am going to check it out and ask the officials to send me the answer. I'll come back to that in a minute. We then have the exact text, because it is good to do it carefully in a treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u88	I want to understand what the amendment can do, not what it is intended to do, but what it can do. I have a number of questions for that. The first question is: is it true that in HBO and MBO we do not have an inspection in the way we do in the p.o. And have vo? A committee might have added value there, but in this case it could be superfluous because we have the inspection first and then this whole law. That is the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u89	I don't know if I can give the answer all the way to the dots and commas. We already have the opportunity to give a clue, and Mr De Hoop mentioned it, but that instrument is not being used. So the instruments are there, but it's not being used because there has been no reason to use them so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u90	So in that sense, it's unnecessary. Then the second point is what he could do in theory. Do I understand correctly that if this amendment is adopted, there will be a committee to see if anything is discriminatory? What's discriminatory is nowhere to be found. What is discrimination is simply hard in the law; Mr Segers said it well. But what is discriminatory is in the eye of the keeper of the club that is being founded? What if during carnival an interview is being conducted with a school driver who accidentally says that women have a uterus? There are people who, rightly or not, take offense, who find that discriminatory and who go to committee. That committee will then look into that and perhaps say yes or perhaps no. Then what's the status of that? And what does the education inspector say about that in the end? Is the lady or the gentleman, or anything in between, who says that gets a professional ban? Is that how we're gonna get into a big problem? Is that what this amendment can do, and not what it is intended to do? I understand why it's meant to be. I know about the gentleman at the Islamic college. But is this what it can do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u91	The Minister has advised against the amendment. I sense a bit between the lines that you are also critical of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u92	Mr Peters closes to me predicting or at least perceptive admissions with which I could argue all the way to the finesses how this would work if we did this, if I appreciated it positively and if I said that we should include it in the law. Of course I don't; I don't appreciate it positive. I say that it may have consequences that require further reflection. They also refer to the questions put by Mr Peters. I just can't get a good look at that. You'll have to ask the petitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u93	This amendment has been discussed very extensively and the Minister has given an opinion. I would, in fact, like to continue with the answer to the questions, with your permission. Mr Van Meenen's question has yet to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u94	Yes, but one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u95	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u96	Yes, it is, because Mr Peters is giving the wrong impression. He says, "We're gonna appoint a commission and we're gonna do this and that." That committee already exists. That committee was set up under another law. That is what this amendment refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u97	We're not gonna do this. We're not going through the Interrupt Microphone... you've been interrupting extensively. The amendment was the subject of a wide-ranging exchange of views. The Minister has given an opinion. The Minister will answer the questions of the Chamber and he will come back to Mr Van Meenen's question at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u98	Yes, I will come back to that because that is a specific question about the applicability of the law, including in individual cases of this kind, in individual judgments, which do have an impact on the school, the school's administration and the culture of the school. It is therefore a legitimate question from Mr Van Meenen. Undoubtedly, an answer is now being worked on. Those were the amendments. I have another transitional amendment. Mrs Westerveld asked me to clarify something. Well, I guess I've seen that as a question. It concerns the amendment in respect of item No. 14 on the right of assent to participate in the supervisory board's remuneration. The question was: will the Minister look at that again? Apart from the warm words that we have for participation, I would like to emphasize that. However, it is a question of looking again at this amendment and of looking at whether we can then give a positive opinion. I took a fresh look at that. That is why I have just said something about the other amendment on participation, because I think it is important to do so where we can, including in this law. But also with Mrs Westerveld's arguments on this point, I remain of the opinion that the right of consent to know about the remuneration of supervisory boards does not fall within the remit of participation within a school or institution. It does not now fit in with the relationship between participation and the supervisor within a school or institution. I think that would simply require a broader debate. I also think it is good that we have that broader debate. I'll come to the Chamber in the fall with a letter on supervision. This also has to do with the ambitions in the coalition agreement, including the raising of the bar. On the contrary, I think it is important that we should be able to discuss these elements in full. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions that have been asked. GroenLinks asked me the questions: "What can we do at the front during the creation of a non-cost school, for example in anti-legal ideas? Is it true that current legislation lacks a gatekeeper function? And what can the Minister do with these kinds of signals?" Within four weeks of its establishment, a private initiative must report to DUO. DUO will send the notification to the inspection. The inspection will then start a recognition procedure. Within three months of the first day of school, i.e. within three months of the first day of school, the inspection shall give a binding opinion to the College of B and W on whether the College may regard this school as a school within the meaning of the Law on compulsory education. The inspection first conducts an introductory interview and also visits the school. The inspection will therefore assess whether the applicable requirements for non-cost schools will be met at the start of the school, but does not necessarily do so before the school is started. That is Mrs Westerveld's point. There is a difference in this respect between paid and unpaid schools. I agree with Mrs Westerveld that we should take a closer look at that. I am therefore prepared to investigate whether and, if so, in what way we could strengthen the gatekeeper function at the non-costed schools, so that we could intervene with such signals. We have a lot of hoops in the Netherlands before you get to teach well, but in a way it's weird that those hoops are there at non-cost schools afterwards, or actually just after the start. So I think this is a good point. I'm gonna say we're gonna investigate this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of questions from the SGP, from Mr Bishop. Is the difference between suspension and dismissal sufficiently clear? What should an RP do if a suspension can last a year? Doesn't that lead to unworkable situations? Suspension is a temporary measure, a reversible measure. Resignation is final, by its nature. So any lead leading to suspension or dismissal will always be accompanied by an assignment. It will not be the case that there will no longer be any directors or supervisors at all because, in addition to a suspension or dismissal, a designation will always include the task of providing an interim board or supervisory board, of course, than with persons who are capable of recovering the maladministration. In this sense, the case of SvPO, the Foundation for Personal Education, is now an example of this. That's where we did it. There's a temporary board there now. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop also asked for guarantees. Mr Segers actually asked for that too. I have tried to explain this in the amendments and in my introduction, but I will say a few more things. He also asked for an explanation of an incident as a reason for an urgent alert. That was a question from Mr Bishop. Mr Bishop said that there was always an urgent need for a serious incident. That is not correct, because although urgent instructions can be discussed, this is not automatically the case. In the event of a serious incident, the inspection at school will investigate the facts and circumstances surrounding that incident. In addition, the inspection in the report must state that the requirements of the emergency instruction are met. There is then a violation. There is then an urgent need. There is therefore a substantial presumption of maladministration. Herein has been heard and heard. And the Minister has justified why a less stringent measure is not sufficient. And the imposition as such, and the content of the emergency instruction, are proportionate. There is a possibility of appeal and objection. And the publication of the report took place. Those are the guarantees. Mr Bishop is concerned that, even if the policy is good and the administration has initiated an adequate response, an urgent warning will be given. That is not possible within the safeguards I have repeated here. I say to Mr Bishop: that is not possible. This is mainly due to subsidiarity, so the reasons why another measure is not adequate. So I have heard Mr Bishop correctly and I have therefore also appreciated his compliments very strongly in the letter of amendment to make these clarifications and adjustments. Mr. Chairman. I have three further questions from Mr Bishop. The SGP welcomes the change. That leads to the amendment in part No. 19 may be withdrawn. This does not apply to the other two amendments. The SGP remains critical of the course and believes that it would be logical for the Education Council to look at this. During the first term, Mr Bishop also referred this to the Chamber. I have also tasted in the Chamber that we must have the debate on this with each and every one of us, and that it is also essential that we have it here. We then did so in writing. This has led to adjustments that we are discussing again. So the added value of that is actually starting another process again, I don't see. I'm not comfortable with that. I believe that we have rightly discussed the matter very well with each other. In part, I have also heard the Chamber compliments on this. Thank you. Mr Bishop pointed out that an urgent instruction should take into account the teaching-eductic vision. Can the Minister confirm that the freedom of education remains sufficiently valid in the case of repair orders and instructions? Yeah, I can confirm that. The importance of the pupils or students shall be stated when giving an instruction or urgent instruction. The purpose of the designation is to end the offence. The Minister does not take the view or direction of a school. Does the Minister wish to reflect on the opinion of his officials that the extension of the bill was not necessary? Here's the reflection on that, Mr. Chairman. I think this is also a nice conclusion to the questions raised in the debate. My officials noted in the note that the adjustments were not necessary to implement the coalition agreement. That is different from the answer to the question of whether the amendments were desirable. The officials gave an opinion on this desirability. That opinion was a political weighting. In the end, as a politically responsible person, I have to make that weighting. That's what my officials said. The note of 20 May also states: "However, the emphasis is more on the ability of the new instruments to act and this weighting is therefore different." For me, that argument of decisiveness has been decisive. That is motivated by many motions in your Chamber. I am not saying this to bully, but these were also motions by Mr Bishop, who in many cases were also firm. But Mr Bishop is right to point out firm guarantees. I have tried to offer them as well. So I have tried to put both these messages into this now. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two motions to make. And I have another question to answer from Mr Van Meenen. Let me first answer Mr Van Meenen's question, otherwise I will confuse it with the motions. The bill states: "Our minister may instruct the competent authority to take one or more measures." It could therefore be all kinds of measures. They may relate to the removal of one driver, or of all drivers, or to the appointment of an external expert. However, the need for action depends on the circumstances of the case. An individual director who ruins school culture can therefore be dismissed. I quote from the legal history, from the more detailed report, which shows that this is supported. "The Government considers, unlike the Section, that the principle of legality does not require the law to define which specific measures may be imposed by means of a (failure) designation. In view of the importance of the flexibility and effectiveness of these instruments, the Section's Opinion on the possible measures to be proposed in an AMb is therefore not followed." Mr. Chairman. I would therefore ask Mr Van Meenen and Mr Paul to let me get to work on the current instruments, so that we can also deal with individual drivers if the driver is really far out of line. All the safeguards that go with this have been clearly discussed in the debate. Thanks to the DENK amendment, which I suspect will be adopted, we are also going to evaluate the law. So let that be the moment when we can see whether we have been able to intervene effectively in situations that asked for it. It is also possible to consider whether a committee should offer an addition to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u99	Mr Van Meenen, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u100	I do not know exactly when this evaluation is foreseen, but the chances of me being present are limited. So I'd rather try to get it right in front. Thanks for the answer, but that's on the follow-up. A measure may relate to this. Sorry, that's in the back, but in the front, it's an individual behavior of a representative of the institution. That's where the target point is for this. The question is: how can such individual behaviour give rise to such a measure? Everything else in the law is about the actions of the competent authority, of the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u101	There are a number of elements in it. I do understand Mr Van Meenen's concern. We've reinforced the citizenship mission. We have now made citizenship part of the definition of maladministration. We have now put into our hands an instrument whereby the inspection will open its window more widely, something can be done with it and then attach to it an instrument that the Minister has at his disposal. Those are all steps we haven't had in the past few years. We all do now. This also means that in this particular case, the inspection of course also in its research at such a school is what they themselves do in their investigations, but of course a minister can also ask the inspection of the school that looks at it in relation to the school, the school culture and whether that leads to violations, problems or problematic situations that have that impact. I think it would be very wise for them to look at that. We have all kinds of safeguards for that and I know the inspection so that they will absolutely do so. I can also imagine that if you have several instruments there is a debate first and that there is something in the Chamber that can be discussed. Think of a discussion about the instrument: do I put the committee first or will the inspection do so? I can imagine that there could be some kind of confusion in the roles and the way things are going at the time, the to-dos that need to be done. It could happen, so it doesn't have to. Suppose in this case the Chamber gives the following order: "You can set up the committee. You should have given us a clue as well, but you do not, because the inspection must look at it first and establish something and so on. It's too slow for all of us. You can do that through that committee." At that moment, of course, the inspection is on a different track. That makes it complicated somewhere. I do not know whether this will in practice meet the need to take up such a situation as quickly as possible or whether it will lead to some kind of mess in that situation. I believe that more consideration is needed here, because, unlike in higher education, this has, of course, strengthened the citizenship mission here and we are explicitly putting it under maladministration here. That was not the case there. We'll do that here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u102	I really want to go to the motions. All the way to the end, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u103	Last try. I understand. Anyway, it's about an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u104	I have rarely seen an amendment so extensively debated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u105	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u106	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u107	Finally. This is about an individual act by a representative of the institution in a situation which goes beyond the context of the institution itself. The inspection can't judge that at all, can it? There's got to be another way of doing that, right? How can the inspection judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u108	This is a situation in which we have a substantial presumption, and that is why I am sticking to the terminology of the legislation, namely that there is an impact on that school that affects citizenship. It must be related to the incident, regardless of the environment in which it took place, whether in class or elsewhere. It should be possible for the inspection to consider how this relates to the culture in the school, how the board looks at it, how students feel about it and how safety is secured. These ingredients are already part of the task of the inspection. So at that point, he can investigate that in one of those schools. So you look at what impact behaviors of drivers have elsewhere, in a different context, at the school and at the students. This is about social security at that school and about giving substance to the citizenship mission of that school. The inspection has the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u109	Can we get to the motions? Mr. Van Baarle, you have another question? Yeah? Well, I'd rather not, but I don't want to deny you the question either! You haven't asked about this yet. But very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u110	Very briefly. I want to understand. I believe that the amendment concerns more than just individual drivers. It adds the following to Article 8 of the Primary Education Act: "The competent authority also ensures the promotion of social responsibility." That is therefore a legal requirement, to which the p.o. This means that the inspection will have to be carried out in a broader sense. My question to the Minister is: is that correct? And if so, do we even know what that sense of social responsibility means? Does the inspection even know what to test for? I do not think we have properly framed this and we cannot just put it in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u111	Then I need to get a good look at those lyrics. Mr Van Baarle is right:'social responsibility' is stated in the text. Not to avoid the question, but we have, of course, given our own definition. I shall return to Mr Van Baarle's motion on citizenship in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u112	Let's do that now. No, the amendment was dissuaded by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u113	There are principles and standards for this, which we have sometimes tightened up with each other in the Chamber. Mr Van Baarle rightly raises a number of questions about this with his motion. But I would like to stick to those definitions. If there are concepts the definition of which may be unclear or not, I cannot see that at this point in time, at least that leads to confusion, as is already the case. That reflection is important, and you have to make it careful. At the same time, it is not entirely new, because it is the same in higher education. However, the difference that we have already defined citizenship here has already been strengthened, adding it as grounds for maladministration. So this is an important urgency of why we have arranged it there, and it is already settled here. Then the only question is how to do that optimally. My doubts are as to whether this will contribute to the optimum clarity of what you have to offer and how to offer it, and also who will monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u114	The motion in part No. 30, by Mr Van Baarle. You had already started the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u115	Sure. It is about providing a more practical framework with basic values of the democratic rule of law in relation to the citizenship mandate, in the research frameworks of the inspection, following the legislative proposal. Since 2021, the research framework contains a specific annex on citizenship, which sets out the basic values. That is a nice and also coordinated explanation of the basic values. That's what I was referring to. With these basic values, I believe we are already very far. There is also: the more you write out, the less space schools are left. So we're looking forward to that, too. Fortunately, in the case of questions, schools can also contact the Expertise Point Citizenship; that has just started. We are in close contact with them and we hear from them also what questions will end up there. That helps to see if there are any uncertainties left. In addition, the inspection will be monitored and enforcement will take place next year. The inspection will monitor how this goes and inform us if there are any major uncertainties. As regards the broad review of the research framework on the basis of the new law, we look at the possible effects on that research framework with each new law adopted. That is why there is a technical review every year. This is therefore being considered in the run-up to the technical review which we are now looking at and which we will soon be offering to your Chamber. It is normally customary to do so before 1 July. It may take a little more time this year; we are still working on it. I'll make that known here as a disclaimer, in case you're thinking: because of all those letters I had really hoped this one would come. He's coming, but it might take a little more time. Following this school year, we will inform the Chamber about the findings of the expertise point and also about the inspection. That's the end of school year. So I say to Mr Van Baarle that we do so. With that, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u116	The motion in part No. 30: Judgment Room. Mr Van Baarle nods. Finally, the motion in part No. 31.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u117	Yes, about involving academic freedom in the consideration of whether an urgent instruction at universities and colleges is proportionate and desirable. That is an important motion, including for Mr De Hoop. First of all, I am getting a manifest misunderstanding out of the air. An urgent instruction can be given to all universities, i.e. both public, such as the UvA, and special or Christian universities, such as VU. Both in the first and in the second term, I have also indicated, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Dijkgraaf, that the content, academic freedom of students, teachers and researchers is and remains guaranteed. The universities fear that the urgent designation infringes the institutional autonomy of the institution. Institutional autonomy is a great asset, but it is not unlimited. An urgent indication can therefore only be given if, given the circumstances, this is a proportionate and subsidiary measure. There will always be a balance between the seriousness of the found maladministration and the autonomy of the institution. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can give that judgment Chamber. Finally, I would like to inform the petitioner that academic freedom applies both to universities and to colleges of applied sciences. I would therefore ask the author to include this in his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u118	Mr. De Hoop. I would also like to refer to the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 16 and 17 are still to be declared or withdrawn. That was suggested in the debate, but it must also be done formally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u119	You take the words out of my mouth, Mr. Chairman. In any case, I am pleased that the Minister is taking my concern with him and that the motion is given a Chamber of Appeal. As the Minister points out, we are also adding higher education. And then I draw my amendments to parts Nos. 16 and 17 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u120	The De Hoop amendments (Doc. 16 and 17) have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u121	Thank you for that! Mr President, I am at the end of my speech. Many thanks to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u122	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education for his answer in first and second terms and for the extensive written reply. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u123	The votes on the amendments and motions are scheduled for next Tuesday. I'm suspending the sitting for a moment. Then we move on to the bill on the energy surcharge.
