ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Azarkan is not in yet. I am therefore waiting for the answer I promised him; I will give it in between. Mr. Chairman. Now the chapter on economics and finance is on the agenda. Of course, Mrs Ploumen's interruption at the beginning of the debate has already made the necessary mention of this, but there are still a few things that need to be clarified on which I owe an answer. I start with the question of how to prevent public debt from rising to 92%; that was a question from Mr Heerma, but I thought that question also belonged to others. That's not what we're going through. That is, of course, unacceptable; that is what he said. I would like to point out, however, that we are going through what has been provided as a temporary path for filling the funds for nitrogen and climate. It is assumed that this would continue afterwards. Of course it isn't. Furthermore, you can also see that the cuts in care are only for 1 billion and not for the full 4 billion. So these are two very big differences. The first brings us back to 75%. Of course, we want to be much lower in the end. We want to go back to 60%. We can see in this period, in the period now to come, that we are below 60%. From my point of view, we're reaching 56% of public debt between now and 2025. Then there was, of course, the question... No, that was actually the main point. Then I'll get to the purchasing power picture. Here's what I'm noticing. We talked about the purchasing power picture for the coming year. The cabinet will look at this in line with the comments made by the coalition groups and my response this morning. We will also follow the entire instruments, including around the AOW. I mentioned that this morning. With regard to purchasing power, I was also obliged to reply to a comment made by Mr Klaver on 2022. Of course, in the current year, the policy perspective of the cabinet is very limited. That is why we establish this picture and also the entire Tax Plan in the year preceding the current calendar year. You can see, of course, that a great deal of money has already been allocated to tackle the consequences of rising energy prices. There is still the one-off €200 per household for people with a lower income to meet them, also because of the increased healthcare costs. That's not in the Nibud calculations either. In any case, for the people with a very small grant, for example for a single person in the assistance, this will mean that he would lose €17 per month according to the Nibud and thus € 204 throughout 2022. So you could almost get rid of that with that €200. Of course, you can never guarantee that per individual household, but roughly you have to think in that order of magnitude. There is, of course, no doubt that inflation is volatile and that the purchasing power picture is, of course, indicative. Of course, we are not sure how inflation is developing. We know that the Central Planning Office will make the new macroeconomic forecasts under the Central Economic Plan in the spring. The most recent figures are also taken into account. We will, of course, continue to follow this purchasing power development very closely, but honesty requires us to say that the means and possibilities for doing important things in 2022 are very limited. Mr President, that about the purchasing power picture for 2022, but Mr Van der Staaij is so in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	I think Mr Klaver wants to be at the end when this is finished. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	This is actually still about the very first point of the whole budgetary policy and the growing public debt, because it was rather brief on the part of the Prime Minister. I know that there will be another separate debate on the Start note, where we will discuss the financial side of the matter in greater detail, but I do have a question on the main lines of this debate. How does the Prime Minister respond to the concerns raised by the Council of State and others, namely that you have less buffer towards the future and that you are somewhere busy shifting the burden towards future generations? How does the Prime Minister weigh that criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	It is to some extent justified, but I think it is justifiable that we should do so. It is, of course, true that tackling a number of major societal issues, in particular climate and nitrogen issues, as well as further investment in education and safety, financial commitments and financial expenditure. If you look at what that means for the years to come and if you look at what the public debt is going to be in 2025, you can see that that is actually a very acceptable percentage. I told you, of course, we're never gonna do the 92%. There are also many assumptions that are incorrect, including the assumption that the funds will continue to flow, even after 2030 and 2035. That's not true. Another concern is that we would not try to slow down the increase in additional expenditure by 4 billion. We'd like to do that. This also has an impact on public finances. In addition, I would like to say that we are having the next discussion in Europe. For some time now, the country-specific recommendations, including for the Netherlands, have been thinking that if you were able to make a number of investments, whether it is the housing market, the climate issue or the infrastructure, and you also have the fiscal space, that is sensible policy. By the way, I do not mean "tax" here as a tax term, but as a taxal from English in the sense of fiscal space, so budgetary space. That has always been the line of the Netherlands. We can live with higher spending, provided that it is done in a sensible way and that there are reforms against it. This also brings us to a higher level of economic convergence in the euro area, for example. It still makes the collective worse than the non-euro countries. That is not the main argument, but it is an argument abounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	I understand this story. At the same time, just when the Prime Minister refers to Europe, was the Netherlands always the one who said: let us be careful and let us not look for borders? We have seen all kinds of examples over the past period. Who predicted the corona pandemic? But thanks to the built-up buffers, you can make more. So my concern remains whether we are not using so much space with all kinds of understandable arguments that you will have to say in case of setbacks or other ways that you need more money: we do not have enough buffers now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	It is simply true that good spending is being made in areas where it really leads to long-term investment. That's just true. That space exists in budgetary terms, but it does lead to the government debt still reaching within 60% by 2025. This means that in the coming years there will be plenty of room for a major blow to the corona if it were to occur. That room is really there. We have seen in recent years how important that is. I fully agree with that. I also really think that we have seen this lesson in Europe. What was the problem in recent years with countries like Italy and France? That there was not enough reform there. You can now see that in those countries where investment is not only taking place along the lines of green and digital, but also where the reforms that have been on the shelf for a long time in the country-specific recommendations, the economic growth space is increasing. You can certainly see that in Italy, Portugal, Spain and Greece. In that sense, I am, frankly, positive about how the euro area as a whole can get out of this. Of course, we remain fiscally hawkish in the sense that we are not going to take irresponsible risks, but I do not think we are doing that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	Maybe you can answer all the questions first. Then there is an order: Mr Paternotte, Mr Azarkan, Mrs Hermans and finally Mr Klaver, unless Mr Paternotte wishes to comment on this last point. I believe that a number of questions are being answered. I'm gonna take a look at Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	Then let me answer the whole block. I'd already responded to the AOW. I have also made a number of commitments on this. In addition to income inequality, there is, of course, the question of wealth inequality. With regard to income inequality, I echo what Paternotte said about it, namely that the gini coefficient is about 1.3% lower compared to the basic path. This is mainly due to the increase in the minimum wage. I think it's decent to see it that way. We already have very limited income differences in the Netherlands, of course, but I think that this is very explanatory and is moving in the right direction. Then, of course, there's the power inequality. We are doing something about this, for example through "the extended grant exemption for our own home," so I say officially. Others call it a more populist term. As a result, power transfer between generations is being taxed more heavily, but it is true that we still really need to get more insight into what is really going on with these power differences. An interdepartmental policy survey is currently being carried out on the distribution of assets. The aim is to map out how policy-wise the division of power should be looked at, also equally abstracted from all kinds of ideological views. Just really practical: how do you look at that? It also examines whether a power distribution measure should play a role in decision-making and how it can be shaped. That ibo is expected for the summer. Mrs. Den Haan mentioned the pension. I agreed with her. You know that the social partners and the cabinet aim to ensure that people with 42 years' work can build up a pension of 80% of the average wage over their career, including the AOW. This is also the starting point in the new pension system. However, the starting point is also that this pension system could increase supplementary pensions rather than increase transparency for participants as to what they are building up in pension assets, including greater freedom of choice for participants. Then there was the demand for the tax system: should it not be more progressive, even in areas outside direct income tax? I believe that the cabinet, the coalition, with the plans ahead today, is taking measures to make the tax system fairer by reducing burdens. This is mainly aimed at workers and families under low and middle incomes. In addition, we are going to green the tax system. I would like to mention, for example, the flight tax and a CO levy for industry. Yesterday it was said here: yes, but that industry does not have to do anything. That's not true. Industry can prevent it from facing all kinds of charges by, as it were, running ahead of the wave by investing in reduced CO emissions. If she does not, she will be faced with ever-increasing tax attacks. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question about the wml: why does the cabinet not opt for a more substantial increase? I think the increase that is being made here is quite substantial. It is an increase in the statutory minimum wage by 7.5% on top of the regular indexation. The cabinet, the coalition, welcomes Van Dijk and Mrs Maatoug's initiative proposal on this issue, giving every minimum wage earner the same hourly wage. For workers with a 40-hour working week, this can lead to an increase of around 18.5% in the minimum wage. We're gonna take $1.5 billion for that. I told you before: you can also see in the CPB's credit transfer that this contributes to a further reduction in income inequality. That is on top of the 3 billion that we are calling for relief. Then it was asked whether we could free up extra money for people who could not make it out of the wml or from the assistance. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the social minimum should be reviewed every four years in order to determine whether it is sufficient to live and participate in society. Soon a committee will also start looking at the adequacy of the social minimum for different groups. I think it is too early to anticipate that outcome. It also asked whether the government would be prepared to publish a supplement to the government agreement that would not include the bill for future generations. I think I have just answered that question, also by pointing out how the figures are developing in the years to come. Yes, I say to those who spoke about this, there is a shortage of labour. We are taking a whole series of measures to ultimately reduce this cutback. That'll be hard work. We now have the lowest unemployment in the world, after the Czech Republic. Yesterday it was 2.7%; in the Czech Republic it was 2.2%. There is no country in the capitalist world that has lower unemployment than the Netherlands, except the Czech Republic, but that naturally pays off in this annoying fact, namely that there are shortages in the labour market. That is why we will use all existing but also new instruments for matching supply and demand, including additional resources for lifelong learning and promoting participation in employment. It's incredibly important that people start working more hours, if that's possible. More hours or more days a week; this is often in women, who often do not yet work full-time. But, of course, when that happens; everyone has to make their own choices, but we want to encourage it. We want to further promote the supply of labour market-relevant vocational training, and with social partners, municipalities and UWV we are looking at how we can guide people from work to work. And so you also look at the "sustainable" labour market infrastructure, how we are going to expand it, in order to further stimulate the transition from work to work and from benefits to work. And we are broadening the earning limit in the Participation Act, because we just want to make sure that people who are on long-term assistance are actively approached and encouraged to go to work. Because yes, low unemployment, but still a lot of people who depend on benefits and might be able to work. I am going to ask Mrs Den Haan to update me on where she has seen an ombudsman introduce labour market discrimination. I may have missed it in the coalition agreement; then I read about it. But if it is true that it is in it, it will also deal with age discrimination. I do not think there will be any, but I need to know where she found it in the coalition agreement. Tax avoidance, and how is the cabinet going to deal with this in Brussels? Of course, Vijlbrief and predecessors have also done the necessary work in the previous cabinet in recent years. And the cabinet is also going to take this international approach further as a spearhead of tax avoidance. That is why we welcome the rapid transposition of the so-called Pillar 2 of the OECD Agreement into EU legislation. This also has to do with the effective minimum rate of 15% of the profit tax. The European Commission has put forward a proposal to deal with letterbox companies, and the Netherlands, together with other EU Member States, wants to do so. Finally, we are working in Brussels on an increasingly intensive exchange of data for an effective approach to tax avoidance. Mr. Chairman. Yes, then the funds; an important point. How do they get to the Court's budget law? In fact, we are putting this in line with, of course, full parliamentary control. Firstly, as long as there are no separate laws setting up these budgetary funds, they will pass through the ordinary regular budgets that are being dealt with here. But of course we want to get straight to work; we are not going to wait until these funds are also laid down in legislation. So they run through budgets and supplementary budgets. But the intention is to eventually convert them into budgetary laws of budgetary funds, with a right of amendment, as with regular budgets. So I think that the budget law of the States-General has been fully secured both immediately and structurally. And then, finally... No, Mr. Chairman, nothing in the end. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you. There are quite a lot of people who want to interrupt. First of all, Mr Klaver van GroenLinks. Mr Paternotte van D66; Mr Azarkan van DENK; Mrs Hermans van de VVD; Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group; Mrs Marijnissen van de SP; Mr Omtzigt; Mrs Ploumen van de PvdA; and Mr Dassen van Volt. First of all, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u11	The Prime Minister pretends that all information about how assets are divided in the Netherlands and what you can do about it is not yet known. As early as 2020, his Secretary of State for Finance sent about ten reports to the Chamber which indicated how we could tax asset values. And that has also been used eagerly, even by the VVD in the election program. All parties increased the burden of capital in their electoral programme. All of you, too. And the compromise is that there is 100 million relief in the coalition agreement. How the hell did you come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u12	Again, it's not an end in itself to heavily burden abilities. We have said: we want to map exactly how power inequality, also through the distribution of assets, can contribute to inequality in the Netherlands. To that end, we also want to wait for the ibo. That's what's gonna happen. On that basis, we will also come to the Chamber with a reaction. And that can, of course, lead to further proposals. But that's how coalition negotiations turned out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u13	This is extremely strange. And this is what I mean by "everything has to change so that everything stays the same." In the election campaign, it is promised that we will tax capital more heavily. Even the VVD said that. All these proposals are already there; not from the GroenLinks scientific bureau, but simply from the cabinet. Officials have already produced many very good reports. What I don't understand is that the Prime Minister doesn't answer the question...the CDA still had the least. What was it? 2.7 billion. D66 had most of the coalition parties, i.e. 15 billion. The compromise is 100 million reductions in the cost of power. And then the Prime Minister says: taxing wealth is not an end in itself. That's exactly the whole problem. It should be. If you own assets in the Netherlands, you hardly pay taxes on them. So these people are getting much richer than people who just have to earn their money working. Take that. My question is very specific: is there room for us to see in this debate how we can increase the burden of making the Netherlands fairer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u14	He'll be here for the next few months. To this end, we really want to look at this issue of capabilities along two lines. The first line is policy. How are we looking at each other against this power distribution? And second of all. How is the question of whether a capital distribution measure should play a role in the decision-making process of the tax system as a whole? The ibo will be available for the summer. So that gives us every opportunity to take decisions on this, even in the run-up to future budgets, if there is a need to look at it. So we can really look at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u15	Twelve years of Prime Minister, and then for the third time he reads the answer to his note. I don't know him like that. No way. This morning we started to say: "To the AOW nothing will change today. Child care, write that on your stomach; nothing is going to change that today." And also in response to my question whether we can look again today at what we are going to do on the basis of content, on the basis of what we find, both content and ideologically, is said: 'Wait a minute; that will be next year when the policy reviews come'. They've all been there for a long time. And that is what we should be having the debate on right now. I do not think it is right for me to say that there is a great lack of capacity in the Netherlands. What is this cabinet's view of this wealth inequality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u16	Once again, we discussed this with the four parties in the negotiations. It has actually been established that it is difficult to determine exactly how this is to be weighted in policy terms. Clearly, Mr Klaver already has a tougher position than the four negotiating parties. That's a little bit different from the election programs. Of course, it is also the question of how, in the election programmes, you ultimately get to the financing of your plans. Mr Klaver's question is now another, namely: how do you look more politically at the issue of the distribution of assets? Should the power distribution be the measure or not? I'm sorry to repeat that. That is not because I do not think Mr Klaver has heard me, but to answer honestly his question about how we have just talked about these issues at the financial side tables and at the main table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u17	The honest answer is that nothing happens to the burdening of assets. Now, in 2022, if you have no idea about the power inequality in the Netherlands, what stone have you lived under for the past ten years? We know that power inequality is the biggest driver of inequality in this country. We know that as a result the backlogs are increasing, including of children in education. And then you come here, and then you say, "Yes, we have to go a little further; we have to..." I'm sorry. I don't think it's credible. All the policy reports to make that power distribution fairer are already in place. It's about what moral opinion you have on this. I see the cabinet has simply made no choice in this. This does not address capital. In fact, at 100 million, it's less burdened. I find it really indescribable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u18	I think Mr Klaver is making it a little too big right now. I respect his view of this, of course. I would like to outline that it also applies to the coalition parties. Well, then we'll just have to continue that conversation. Then I want to know what Clover is thinking. Of course, I can read his program. But I think this is part of the discussion that could perhaps continue with the Finance Ministers and the Secretary of State for Taxation. For, apart from the fact that you raise taxes to raise money for social purposes, there are, of course, policy aspects around that taxation that you have to face, for example, that labour burdens are less convenient and that it is sometimes better for the economy if you can levy taxes in another way. I think that is also one of the reasons why, in a number of programmes, from my party but also from other parties, there was room for increasing taxes on capital, but of course always in combination with often much more substantial reliefs than is now possible, also because of the whole financial package that lies here on other tax titles. Mr Klaver says, from a more ideological point of view, that he also finds power inequality as such a point to look at. It could be. Maybe he's got a point, too. I find it truly interesting to see what the advisers are saying about how we should look at that policy. The debate here has always been about income inequality in the past. That's what the discussion was about. That was the classic discussion. Oh, yeah. That's how it was in my time in politics. It may have been different before 2002, but since I started working in politics, the debate on income inequality is the big question. Reducing the gini coefficient. Look at the battle at the start of the second cabinet I was allowed to lead. It was all about income inequality, not about property inequality. This has become more relevant in recent years; I agree with Mr Klaver. But I think it makes sense to look at it on the basis of a careful weighting of all factors later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u19	This is a game of bluff poker, unbelievable! That you dare say with dry eyes here, even to me, that this was not about power inequality. I myself was the first to invite Piketty in the Netherlands, here in the Dutch parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u20	Yeah, I know all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u21	... to talk about power inequality. It's been over all the time, every year. It was my group, Mr Snels, who requested those reports from those officials: what about the lack of capacity? How can we stop it? A political debate should not be about postponing: "We will talk about this later. That's what we're gonna talk about." That conversation is being held democratically in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u22	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u23	So let's start with box 2 and how many billions are in there for about 400,000 entrepreneurs. Money not taxed. What do you think of that? What is your view? Instead of referring to technical solutions put forward by officials. The civil servants in this country are fantastic. But then you have to make a political choice in what we think is desirable. Then you can look at the impact and the measures. I can't hear this Prime Minister say anything about that. Please do not say that in recent years it has only been about income inequality. If that's what you really think, then either you're bluffing or it's very telling. Then it says a lot about what kind of stone you've lived under in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u24	I know that Mr Klaver is, of course, very profiled on this subject. I was talking more about the rest of the room. Because I don't remember that we've had such extensive discussions here about power inequality. However, we have talked extensively about the differences in income. And about Piketty: I didn't get any further than the abbreviated version. It's a very thick book, but there was also a kind of thinner summary, which I thought was a bit more pleasing. I've read it all through, but I have all my views on it. My position in the discussions we have has always been that you want to have a tax system that ensures that there is more spending space for the middle groups, especially when it comes to income tax. We are doing this to an important extent by increasing the working discount, so that there is more room for middle groups and those with a slightly lower income, but also for families. We worked really hard on that. In addition, we believe that it is very important when collecting taxes what it means for your competitive position as a country. There are very good arguments for box 2. Box 2 is not necessarily bad because only 400,000 people use it. In many cases, they are entrepreneurs who are able to invest back in their businesses through box 2. That's why box 2 is here. Mr. Klaver can laugh, but he was also against the big companies here. So maybe he doesn't think that's so important, but I think it's very important that there are companies in the Netherlands that undertake and also invest back in the economy. You have all that to look at in conjunction with each other. If you're talking about the questions about power inequality, you have to look at it in that connection. He's asking me that question about box 2. I'm defending box 2. I also think that at box 2 there are still some things to think of that we need to improve. Like Mr Klaver, I also see risks in the arbitration between box 2 and the rest of the tax system. But he just put that in the garbage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u25	I would like to ask the Prime Minister's view. He says, "I read Piketty." It's beautiful. He has read the abbreviated version; fine. Then what is your view of his main statement or of what he proves there, namely that capital is always growing harder than income and that we are doing well to tax capital more heavily, so that we can give lower taxes on those middle incomes? When it comes to box two, your officials have been looking a long time to find out what's going on with that. The money doesn't come out of those e.g. it stays there. It's not being invested. That's not something we need to re-examine. We've known that for a long time. You know why? Because you had a fantastic Secretary of State who already had this sorted out. But the question is, what are you doing with that report? Please take us seriously! Don't try to bluff us out of here with information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u26	I'd like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr. President, through you, take this place seriously. Don't try to bluff us away with reports that will ever come. Everything you're talking about, I've read them all. Why? Because power inequality in our country is a huge problem. Why? Because politics, by the Cabinets you led, has paid too little attention to them. Why? You have to be in technology to deal with all these kinds of issues. And if we were to tax box 2 more heavily, we could make sure that all those middle incomes in the Netherlands have more money left. If we were to tax second and third house owners more heavily, there would be more houses available on the housing market for all those people who now have no home. Those are choices you don't make, but you should. You must not hide behind reports that are yet to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u28	I hope Mr Klaver understands that I am not going to become a member of GroenLinks. And I can see why now. I don't agree with this. I think this is really too short. I really think it's too short a turn. Yes, I agree with him that the space available to further increase income for middle groups and higher low incomes is always good news. If, later this year, on the basis of an analysis of the differences in assets, we would find that there is an opportunity to shift the tax from property tax to income tax, or vice versa from income tax to property tax, I agree with him on this. But the ease with which he actually puts the whole box 2 in the rough and says that it doesn't work, I fundamentally disagree with that. Box 2 has helped us enormously in recent years to ensure that entrepreneurs are able to earn a reasonable income and continue to invest back in their businesses. There are risks, too. I call the arbitration between box 2 and the Vpb, the low and the high Vpb rate. I can see all that. So we need to talk about this more closely. It is not for nothing that we raise a billion dollars in the coalition agreement on the Vpb in this cabinet period. So we all do. But the sweeping thought of box 2 away and everything to income tax... I say to Mr Klaver that I fear that in his political thinking what I would respect, but which I do not agree with, some of it would then go to further consumer spending by the government. I'd be very careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u29	It is not only faint, it is not just not taking Mr Klaver seriously, it is also just unfair. It's really unfair. This is also about the same point I made yesterday. The voter has not been able to express his opinion on this. I would almost say that Mrs Kaag's party wanted to raise 16 billion extra in capital. Mr Segers' party wanted to raise 8 billion more. The party of Mr Rutte, the VVD, of which he is political leader, said: we want 3.5 billion, and the CDA said: 2.7 billion. That's what the voters have been talking about. Mr Klaver rightly says: how can that be, what kind of compromise is that if you say 16, 8, 3, 4 and it becomes -0.1? That's not fair, is it? So this Prime Minister isn't telling the fair story. He certainly knows how to do it. That is what he has already written down in his own programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u30	How to raise taxes is not very difficult. The question is just how to ensure coherence with your entire agreement that lies politically here, including the question of what that means for businesses, for citizens when it comes to the investments they have to make, including in the major transitions that are taking place. You have that to look at in conjunction, I say to Mr Azarkan. He's pulling this out isolated right now. But, of course, it is not the case that increasing capital taxes is an end in itself. This is all part of either a shift from property tax to income tax, so that income tax can be reduced and capital tax increased. I think that's a real discussion to have. If that ibo comes, I think we should look at it again through those glasses. But let us not pretend that there is not a whole ideological discussion here too. In the end, this ideological debate is that it is inevitable, in a liberal economy and a free market economy like the Netherlands, that power does not always end up the same everywhere. This also has to do with how things are going with activity and with what risks people are taking. Are they employed or have their own company? That has to do with many other issues. In the end, you cannot even out all this through the tax system. You shouldn't want to; I really wouldn't. In addition, I really attach to a more classical-liberal line. So we have to look at that; we will do that when we get that ibo back later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr President, it is quite clear to me that that is an ideology. Because what we have seen is that under Rutte over the last ten years, the tax burden on citizens, for people working, has risen from 35% to almost 40%. That means that every Dutchman who works has to tap 40 cents of every euro. For companies, it's gone the other way. What he does is simply not fair, because it lands with the people again, it lands with the citizens. So if he wants to solve major issues, such as nitrogen; if he wants to solve major issues, such as the climate, he is right to do so. But why does that strike people with an AOW? Is that "seeing each other"? Why aren't these people seeing anything like that? Those are unfair divisions, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr President, that is not true, of course. We increase the elderly discount, reduce the burden on middle incomes, lower incomes and families in the Netherlands by billions. Those are all things we do. And we also invest in a lot of things that need to be invested in. Of course, it is not true that we are not looking at burden-sharing. Moreover, the overall burden on companies has naturally increased enormously in recent years. The problem is that this business tax has been very high and can be compensated very little. In fact, the Vpb is also growing up again in the next cabinet period, and that is justifiable. It is said: but the abolition of the landlord's tax is a reduction in the burden on business. Yes, that is very targeted at a limited number of corporations, so it is of course not entirely fair to say statistically that this is again a reduction in the tax on companies. That's about to happen. There is a good reason for this, but not to reduce the burden on businesses. So the burdens on companies have increased enormously due to the crisis of 2013, 2014, 2015. While citizens now have a net burden reduction compared to before the crisis, this is not yet the case for businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u33	But those civilians don't know anything about it. Let's get back to the old-age discount. There are 800,000 people with only an AOW. It doesn't do them any good. They have no use for the old-age discount, so that does not fix anything for the most vulnerable people I spoke about yesterday in my plenary contribution. We have seen that Nibud says: if these are the plans, then no one in the Netherlands is making any progress. In fact, the most vulnerable have to turn in tens a month. Mr President, that's not fair, is it? So how can you want to solve the climate problem when you leave people in the cold every day? How can you want to solve the nitrogen problem when people don't have air to live? What's that? And why does the Prime Minister say that before 2022 I can hardly do anything about it, because that train is already driving? You'll leave the people you do it for standing in the cold, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u34	Three things are now mixed up in Mr Azarkan's speech. One is the load relief. That state, which we are going to do in the years to come, is very significant for middle incomes, lower incomes, workers, families. It's very substantial, and we're not gonna take anything away from it. Now there is a second issue about purchasing power in 2022. We see from rising inflation that where the effect of the coalition's measures is that purchasing power on top of what it would already do is up to 0.4%, the purchasing power effect in 2022 due to rising inflation is negative. What I say at his request to Mr Klaver, having looked at it again during the break, is that the resources you have to repair that purchasing power for a year are very limited. Apart from that, there's a real discussion whether you're looking ideologically at saying, "I object to differences in ownership, the extent to which capabilities end up" or whether you're saying policy-wise, as happens in most election programs, that there's a substantive argument to shift labour charges to property charges. I think that is a very real discussion. We want to map very precisely in the coming period what policy is the best distribution, and how you should look at it in terms of the standards or the distribution of assets is or is not part of those decisions. That's three separate things. Mr. Azarkan says that if you burden your abilities a little more heavily, then what can be done with the AOW. But that's separate, that has nothing to do with each other. At the AOW, we are spending hundreds of millions of dollars by increasing the elderly discount so that the AOWs too can grow as well as possible with the effects of the increase in the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u35	I have not begun to mix up all kinds of developments that are interrelated. I think Mr Klaver asked a very sharp question, and Mr Rutte needed a very long answer in which he got everything. Mr Rutte himself mentioned the elderly discount, and we have found that it does nothing for 800,000 people. That doesn't fix anything, they're the most vulnerable, and that's my point. Of course, on the second point of the assets, it is undeniable that in the Netherlands social insurance contributions and taxes on works are higher than in the neighbouring countries. As far as possession is concerned, there are people, even here in the cabinet, who have seen 50 000, 60,000 or 70,000 euros of capital increase over the past year because they own capital goods. That's right. Then why don't we tax it? Why does the Prime Minister say he sees the signals, but doesn't know what to do with them? You just don't have the guts to go through with it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u36	This is too simple, isn't it? People pay taxes on their labour or on the profits of their business. If the capital increases by house prices or shares, then we can't come by there with a scythe. I'd be against that. I think it is a much more real debate, also from the stability of the tax system, on how to find a better balance in the distribution between capital taxes and labour taxes if necessary. I think that is a real discussion, and I am happy to admit it. Then let's have all the facts on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u37	This really is too easy a presentation of things. It assumes that people have always built up power with hard work. Of course it isn't. People get that through inheritance law or in other ways. The point is that in the Netherlands there is a decoupling between people who benefit from the fact that they have built up power very easily. People with a lot of capital goods do that automatically. That leads to great power inequality; you can never work against it. The point is that we have worked on this with policy. I have said it before, also to the previous Finance Minister: if we buy up a great deal of debt at European level, EUR 3,500 billion, then we are pumping huge amounts of money into the economy and that means that interest rates are falling. So people who are in debt benefit greatly from that. Let me give you the example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u38	Could you keep it a little shorter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u39	For a social rental house, my parents now pay 550 euros a month more than a few years ago. I'm paying for my own apartment, through that interest rate cut, about the same thing. We have to look at that sometime, how that develops?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u40	So let's take an advance on the discussion that we need to continue. We must be careful not to declare, as a problem to begin with, that there is equality in this country, but that we are not all equal. That's inevitable; it's just that some people can inherit, their parents or relatives leave their money, and others don't. Yeah, it happens. You can't even all that with the tax saying, can you? You shouldn't want that, should you? But I hear Mr Azarkan say that. That's one. It is also true that there can always be moments in the economy, for example, where interest rates are low and people in debt have an advantage. Sure, that's right. But there have also been plenty of times when that was different. So I'd argue that if you want to have a proper discussion, you should have as little ideology as possible and as practical as possible. I think that the fastest bridge to such a discussion is the following: what is the kind of tax that also causes the economy the least damage? Then I agree with everyone that in the end a tax on labour is always less good for economic growth than many other tax titles. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u42	I think you could look through those glasses if we had any further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u43	We are now going to Mr Paternotte of D66, and then to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u44	I want to go back to purchasing power. There was a nice formula in the agreement: the starting point is that there is a balanced positive purchasing power picture for all groups. Now there's going to be a specific look, because it doesn't look good for the elderly at the moment. They'd be just below that zero line. This is, of course, based on inflation and the Central Economic Plan. In the spring, the exact situation will be examined. We do not know whether it will be a cold winter or a warm winter; that will all matter. But there are also other groups, such as young people, culture makers, workers at the bottom of the wage building, with a somewhat lower income, which are also not very bright and do not come out very well. So I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister can at least confirm that the principle of 'all groups balanced positive' also applies to these groups, the young people, the culturalists, the people at the bottom of the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u45	I don't think we put the culture makers separately in the purchasing power tables, but you can find them where they end up, in many cases. But that answer is, in short, yes. If you look at that purchasing power image, then of course you look over the full width.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u46	We go to Mrs Hermans of the VVD, and then to Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u47	A question about the funds. I heard the Prime Minister say something about an institution law. He said there's gonna be a lot of stuff about that coming to the Chamber. I have two questions about that. The first question is: how about until then the use of money and its control? The second question is: is the design outlined by the Prime Minister similar to the Delta Fund and the Mobility Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u48	Let's see. On the first question, I say that it is through the budget. So we're just gonna get started. We are not going to wait until these funds are legal; we just have to start spending those dimes well. But that is now simply through the budgets. So these are supplementary budgets and the 2023 budget. But once the fund and the law are there, it's also set up. On that second question, I am afraid to say as soon as possible whether that is the same as the Delta Fund. I suspect that is in itself what you are looking at, the Delta Fund and the Mobility Fund you mentioned. It makes sense to me. We have to make the legislative proposals with these budgetary laws, but it seems obvious to me to base them on them, or at least to draw lessons from them and apply them as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u49	Thank you. Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Dassen and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u50	In reply to my question, the Prime Minister mentioned the second pillar pension. We are going to talk about the impact of the pension agreement this year. I hope with all my heart that this will bring relief to the current and future pensioners. It has now been adopted in the Court that the proposal may already be indexed in the transition period, i.e. not with a coverage rate of 110%, but with a coverage rate of 105%. That is a small crumb, because it provides relief to 25% of pensioners. The remaining three quarters are among the large pension funds, which are not at all among those 105%. What is the Prime Minister going to do to enable indexing for other pensioners during the transition period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'm not gonna freestyle that. I ask whether I can give the right answer to that in the second period. I think I have the answer, but I want to be sure. This is very sensitive. This question wasn't in the first term yesterday, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u52	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u53	Oh, thank God. So I didn't forget him. I'm still gonna answer it, but then take it with me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u54	Fine. I'm a very patient person today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u55	Then he'll be answered today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u56	Then I'll wait. Now it is also true that a lot of AOW employees do not have a supplementary pension. They are therefore dependent on the AOW. Still, about the decoupling. An AOW earns about 70% of the income of a person with the minimum wage, i.e. around €1,250 per month. Someone with the minimum wage gets €1,755, I thought. I don't know that out of my head. Now it's true that AOW'ers have worked their whole lives. I said that to Mrs Hermans yesterday. So they've contributed to society. They still do, by fulfilling all kinds of social tasks. To what extent does the Prime Minister consider it justified not to include the AOWs, who receive only 70% of the minimum wage, in the 7.5% increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u57	We'd like to take them, just not along the way of the clutch. By increasing the employment discount, we bring as many people as possible. Mrs Den Haan is right that you have a problem with a certain group. That is why we are also looking at the suggestion that came out of the VVD yesterday, and I also thought the CDA: the IO-AOW. You can also look at the height of the AOW. Of course, you can also look at the employment discount yourself again. Anyway, I think it is indeed difficult to reach the group with only AOW. You can look at the clutch again. We're looking at all these instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mrs Marijnissen, SP, and then Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u59	Still, back to the point of power inequality and the burdening of great abilities. The Prime Minister presents himself here again as we know him, namely as the guardian of capitalism. He says it, in the campaign it's gone over, and it's written down in the election program of the VVD. It is also written down in the electoral programmes of all the other parties that are now part of Rutte IV: we are going to tax the great abilities more firmly. And what's the outcome in the end? There will be 100 million less taxes instead of billions more. I object to the fact that, in my opinion, the Prime Minister said to Mr Klaver or Mr Azarkan: you are now starting as a Chamber on the decoupling of the AOW, but that has nothing to do with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u60	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u61	So I object to that. That has everything to do with each other. It is inconceivable that the Prime Minister at the start of the debate claims with dry eyes that the opposition wants everything: you want the cuts to be in the care of the job, that the link with the AOW remains; but yes, that all costs money and we do not have that. Then we'll put forward ideas that are coming out of your election program, Mr. Rutte. Such an idea is the proper burdening of the great abilities. You'd be fine with that. Even if you did what those of the four parties who wanted to do the least about this, namely the CDA with me believe 2.7 billion ECU, we can still maintain the link with the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u62	Once again, we are looking at the linking instrument with the AOW, which is put out once in our proposals. We are looking at that instrument alongside the other instruments, with the aim of ensuring that the people with AOW or AOW and a small pension are as part of the overall purchasing power picture that this cabinet has in mind. What Mrs Marijnissen suggests, I think, is that if you impose more taxes somewhere else, you can spend more. She calls herself care. I think it's and-and. You have to ensure that public expenditure is at a decent level, but remains manageable. At the same time, you have to make sure you control the burden. That is a real conviction that the four coalition parties have. It is precisely the concern I expressed in the discussion with Mr Klaver that it is not a shift from taxes from direct to indirect, but a shift from taxes indirectly to expenditure. I would like to be careful with that, because I hear again the reproach of Mr Van der Staaij and others who say: you had already pumped that expenditure up to a nice level. They are right in themselves; I think for good reasons. But that is, of course, the ideological difference in this Chamber. That is also a classic difference, which is not bad at all, but so far we have always come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u63	Mr. Omtzigt. Then Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u64	It is a choice of the cabinet where the tax saying hits the hardest. After this coalition agreement, the middle incomes pay............................................................................................................................................................................................ More than the top incomes. After this agreement, and because Mr Maatoug's amendments were not adopted, foreign investors who buy rental houses do not pay taxes here when they rent and can collect profits without tax. After this coalition agreement, when an ordinary person inherits his parents' house, you sometimes inherit what he pays 20% tax on it. If you inherit a company, you will have to buy and buy back the BOR twice, which I have been trying to stop here from paying almost 0% tax if you are very rich. Choices are being made. I ask the government if it is prepared to reconsider those choices and make them fairer. To make it fairer to the people who earn a moral income, to make it fairer to the people who have one house. In this way, the government can reduce our deficit a little bit and we can keep some room for when it is necessary. Can the government come up with a plan for a smaller deficit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u65	No, we do not have that intention at the moment, but I do think that we should continue to discuss it. I'll walk by them. As far as the middle groups are concerned, we have not yet decided on exactly how we are going to shape the 3 billion reductions. The aspect which Mr Omtzigt refers to here is, of course, part of that consideration. As far as foreign investors are concerned, I have already said that we are looking, also in legislation, at how to give municipalities room to set limits when it comes to housing. We also always look very critically at the precise arrangements that exist with regard to box 2, the arbitration box 2, the Vpb and the BOR. All these things are always part of that. Once again, I think that these are discussions that we have to have with each other later this year, when the results of the inter-departmental policy research capabilities and capacity inequality are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u66	The Prime Minister confirms that it is a political choice that, for the first time in Dutch history, middle incomes account for around €40,000, to which the ic nurses belong, and pay more than 50% tax, while top incomes pay 49.5%. Yeah, that's the design. The CPB indicates that the tax on households is increasing by 4 billion. There is no net tax relief. And the tax on labour is increasing, because these tax rates are increasing. At the same time, there are large exceptions for foreign investors and letterbox companies. They are being dealt with slowly, but not soon enough. The government can make a different choice, similar to that in neighbouring countries. You don't have to do anything weird socialist. Even Cuba has lower rates of income tax. So does the government want to come up with a new plan, with a smaller deficit and fairer taxation? Now, in the coalition agreement, it is time to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u67	No, we don't have that intention. However, as I said about the middle groups, we still have to decide exactly how we can shape these 3 billion burdens. Then we shall also look at these aspects. I have already answered the question about foreign investors. This has nothing to do with the design of the load relief of the middle groups. And I've just been talking about the letterbox companies. Mr Omtzigt is also fair in how he describes this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA. Then there is Mr Segers and then there is Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u69	We get an interesting insight into the conversations during the formation in the Logement. It wasn't about power inequality. I can imagine that the Prime Minister's party didn't bring that in, but apparently D66 didn't think it was important either. While power inequality is the seed of displeasure. I'm not the only one who says that. It may not even be ideologically motivated anymore, I say to the Prime Minister, because I know he hates it. His magazine, The Economist, which is not really a left-wing magazine, already writes that inequality is at the heart of the world's problem. It causes instability and displeasure, apart from more moral considerations. I note that it has not been about power inequality. D66 had nice words about it. I spoke yesterday in the debate with Mrs Kaag about the importance of sharing honestly. There's nothing left of it in the log house. What we hear, the resultant of all these conversations, is that it's not about people's displeasure and unhappiness, everyone gets more unhappy about it, but about the tax saying. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna tell the Prime Minister one more time. Everything you bring in here has to do with each other. Everything has to do with everything: the decoupling of the AOW, 4 billion cuts in care, cuts in tenants, non-treatment of polluters, non-handling of large assets and non-handling of businesses. That has everything to do with each other. That's just what the deal says. The cuts end up in the hands of people who have worked hard their whole lives and who thought that something might change now. You can reverse all these cuts if you are willing to share honestly. That is my question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u70	Once again, large companies must invest massively in order to continue to run ahead of the wave of taxation. If they don't, the scythe's gonna hit them. So it's not like the big companies are getting away with it. They must invest massively. I think it's smart to do it that way, too. That leads to more growth than you're burdening everything right now. It has far more effect if they are motivated themselves and do things out of fear of higher taxation than they do because we are going to levy taxes in advance. Then you run the risk of reducing the environmental impact and causing greater damage to employment. I think this is a sensible approach. So we do not spare the big companies; that is simply not true. Businesses must make huge investments in order to meet these ever cleaner emission requirements. Then what Mrs Ploumen says about the lodgement. I'm not gonna tell you anything about the confidential consultations we have there. That's not up to me. She can check with the four colleagues here in the Chamber if they want to, but I don't think it's my place to do that. I merely said that in those talks we found that it was wise to come back to that again. That cannot be pleasant and the Chamber cannot agree with it, but that is a view. Well, I'm gonna come over to that clutch after all. Part of our plan to increase wml is also the proposal made by the Labour Party and GroenLinks, by Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Maatoug. That is the introduction of one minimum hourly wage based on a 36-hour working week. We thought that was wise. This also leads to an increase in the minimum wage. But quite honestly, in that bill, nothing is linked to the benefits, nor to the AOW. It's not like we're doing something that's really weird if they don't do it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u71	First of all, let's get to the first point. The Prime Minister does not have to clap out of the school about what happened in the Logement and about what has been discussed. I note that at least one party has been in there with the view that fair sharing and reducing inequality was a campaign promise and that we are now ending with the tax saying in this debate. Those are worlds of difference. Those worlds of difference affect the everyday life of all people. The coalition agreement is called "Seeing each other, looking forward to the future." I would like to inform the Prime Minister that, as long as there is no fair sharing and as long as people do not feel that not only they but also others are doing their part, you still have so much to look after each other, but that people continue to feel the displeasure. And rightly so. Then about the point of the bill. This is a technical bill. The Prime Minister knows that very well. The Labour Party has always been in favour of linking. There's no misunderstanding about that. I'd like to give it to you: why fix something very complicated if it doesn't have to be broken? You're gonna break that clutch. You don't have to. Keep it steady. Then you don't have to do all these complicated constructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u72	That was a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u73	Finally, Mr President, this is at the heart of the debate. The Prime Minister here pretends that power inequality suddenly appeared in his file yesterday, while this is the talk of the day in the Netherlands, in this parliament, but also worldwide, about which the Prime Minister and also Mrs Kaag understand with everyone in debates. Worldwide this is the talk of the day. Here, this wealth inequality and its effects are reduced to the tax saying of a liberal prime minister on behalf of a cabinet of four parties. Let me be clear: I think that other choices need to be made. And you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u74	Still, about the minimum wage bill. I've been watching that. It has also been looked at by the public authorities. The minimum wage is not linked to social benefits and/or to the AOW. Then the second, the power inequality. Again, I think it is a real discussion to have. That's what I said here. You have not yet come across that in our proposals. That's right. That too is fair to name. 'Cause it's not in there right now. We have said: we want further information first. We are going to have that discussion with each other in the coalition and here in the Chamber. So that comes back here. Just because I was talking about the "tax saying" does not mean that I am opposed to taxes or not seeing that taxes are also necessary to organise things, for example when it comes to income differences, so that society can go through as a society. That's crucial. I understand that very well. I'm not in favour of leveling personally, but I'm in favour of limiting income differences. And that's what this country does. I am glad that this government agreement will reduce the income gap again. I also think that the debate on the differences in capital is very real. I'm not against that at all. Only, here and there, I should be thinking of using this extra tax revenue for constructive expenditure. That is what I would like to warn you, yes, that suggestion has been made from the coalition. But that's a discussion we're going to have. So let us do this a little bit by means of the ibo; that is my proposal. You say do it now. I respect that. But you are asking for our position and this is how we agreed in the coalition talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Klaver, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u76	This is really, really uncomfortable. I'm sorry. I have a bunch of reports here, because you are so keen to debate on the basis of information from your officials. I have here the report on asset taxation, dated 1 May 2020. I'd like to give it to the Prime Minister through the messenger. He was just talking about Piketty's book being so thick. That's why I already put some bookmarks in there, for example on page 9. You can see exactly what the power distribution in the Netherlands is. That's a fantastic map. I do not know if I have complimented your officials on this before, but on this. I'd like to give these to you in advance. Then here is the report on building blocks for a better tax system, the synthesis report. This is actually also a fairly recent report. Figure 5.1 is absolutely worthwhile. For the record, this is not from the Scientific Bureau of GroenLinks, but from the Ministry of Finance. I would also like to give this to the Prime Minister through you, Mr President. And here's another one: Taxing income out of significant importance. So that's box two. This, too, is a rather heavy report and is from May 2020, which is quite recent. All the new insights are actually in it. It says what is problematic about it, what policy proposals there are and how you could adapt them. I would like an appreciation of this from the Prime Minister. The point I make by giving him these documents is that the Prime Minister thinks he'll get away with saying to the House of Representatives: we're gonna figure it out and talk about it for a while. It's been sorted out, by order of you! That is why I would like to appreciate the points in these reports that I have just mentioned in this debate. And I'd like to hear how the Prime Minister thinks we can work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u77	My proposal would be more practical. In April, the ibo comes from Laura of Spirit. I think that is also the time for us to discuss this further. If Mr Klaver so wishes, I would like to say a few things about these reports in the second term, but I will not be able to go through it in detail now. But I think it is very real to have this discussion here with each other. So we will do that very soon, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u79	That is the fundamental point. The Prime Minister just said: I don't have time to go over this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u80	Not today. I'm standing here talking, so that's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u81	No, but do you know what the problem is? You should have gone through it a long time ago! You are standing here claiming that there is no such information. That information is there. You haven't taken notice of it. You put on a big pair of pants here in the Chamber and you put on all kinds of caricatures about what we would like to do with that power or not and that we would like to burden the Netherlands completely. That's bullshit! We've taken the trouble to read those reports. That is why I would like you to address the Chamber in a different way. I can't believe you don't say "wait until that information comes out." That information is there. I note that you have not read these reports. This means that a substantive debate on this issue is apparently not possible today. That's too bad. Then it has to be at another time. But that's what's going on: not the Chamber doesn't know what it's about, you don't know what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u82	I think this is a misunderstanding between me and Mr Klaver. I have not given the impression that nothing has ever been said, written or published in the past five, ten or fifteen years about capital distribution and equity or capital inequality. That's not my point. Of course there are those reports, and I'm sure there will be many more. Our officials, our planning agencies, our advisors come up with excellent documents. What I said to you on the question of how the coalition looks at this issue is that we have chosen to see what comes later this year, in April, when the interdepartmental policy investigation is there. That's what I told you. I think it would be wise to have this discussion with each other, also on the basis of that. If Mr Klaver insists on doing so earlier, of course, this can always be done sooner. I have also said that for me personally I must speak about this in greater detail in the coalition and cannot quite say for sure that I am speaking on behalf of the entire coalition, one of the elements, let me put it so carefully, will be the question of the desirability of shifting taxes from labour to capital charges, regardless of how you look more ideologically at those power differences. That was my argument, not that there would be no pieces. So thank you for that. I think there are others. But now, I think, it's about how you get that discussion structured here in the Chamber in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u83	I have another question, but if the Prime Minister asks if there is any political openness in the Christian Union Group to shift the burden of labour to capital charges, then there is political openness. Well, let me just say that. We're just gonna talk about that quietly. I would like to come back to a question on parliamentary control of the funds. Mrs Hermans asked for this too. The Court of Auditors said it was a matter of concern. We are concerned about this, because it affects Parliament's budget law. Then there is the difference between the Mobility Fund and the Delta Fund to which Mr Hermans referred. Soon it will be well arranged. This is what the Parliament is talking about, and it will decide on it. At the Growth Fund, that's a bit kicked. It's a little more complicated than that. There are reasons for that, but that is really another model. If we look at this design, my preference would be to look at the Mobility Fund and the Delta Fund and guarantee that parliamentary control. I ask the Prime Minister whether that is also his perception, whether that is indeed the route rather than the Growth Fund model.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u84	Delta Fund rather than Growth Fund. Agreed. I agree, for all kinds of reasons, because otherwise it will be terribly complex and it will involve all kinds of external committees. In fact, there are very good arguments for this at the Growth Fund. In this case, you are talking about the 35 billion for the climate transition until 2030, the 25 billion for the nitrogen transition until 2035. I think it is really wise to put that more on the Delta Fund and the Mobility Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u85	I ask this because it is feared that these funds will fall prey to lobbyists and to people who know the way, while Parliament will be a little distant. It's good to know. There's gonna be institutional laws. They'll follow. Until then, it will be under the budgetary chapters and it will be before the Chamber and we will have an open parliamentary debate on it. Then there is indeed control of taxpayers' money that is then spent on the main charities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u86	In my view, it is essential that parliamentary control can also take place if the fund is not yet in the form of a network. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u87	I would like to go on with this because, as Mr Segers rightly points out, there are indeed concerns that these big pots of money, those funds, will be 'lobbyed'. Yesterday, the Prime Minister indicated that he wants to work with the positive forces in society, but access to power is sometimes uneven. It is precisely organisations that have many lobbyists that can have access more easily. I wonder how the Prime Minister deals with this in order to ensure that these funds do not fall prey to some organisations with many lobbyists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u88	We assume that the Chamber will also close its ears to the sirens of the lobby world. That goes for all of us, of course. It is not that, because it is a fund, it is easier for lobbyists to reach than if it were just a budget title. The difference is that you limit it in time and you say: this is the pot of money we want to spend in the next ten years for climate and fifteen years for nitrogen; ten years 35 billion for climate and fifteen years 25 billion for nitrogen. That's how it works. So it is not that this makes it easier for lobbyists to access that money. But, of course, political decision-making can always be influenced by lobbyists. It is, of course, our all responsibility to be open to everything and everyone, but to continue to make the smart decision on our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u89	That is exactly the point that is very important. Of course, a lobby can also make certain policies better, but it is important that it is transparent how decisions have been made. For example, we have previously tabled a motion to establish a lobby register. That motion has arrived. Then the reaction was: we move it over to the next cabinet to implement it. I am therefore curious to see how the Prime Minister will proceed with this. Another point is that in 2016 a lobby section emerged from an own-initiative paper of the PvdA in order to specifically implement this in all legislation. I understand that this motion has not actually been implemented for several years. I wonder if the cabinet intends to resume that motion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u90	I'll double-check it, but I suspect that motion is now at gunpoint at BZK, at Hanke Bruins Slot or... yeah, I suspect with her. I should check that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u91	Can the Prime Minister come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u92	Yeah, if there's official listening, this will be in my set for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u93	It therefore includes the lobby section that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u94	I don't know what that is, but I'm gonna ask them to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u95	Yes, please, because that is a motion that was adopted in 2016. A paragraph like this has been added a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u96	I believe that immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u97	I also believe that Mr Dijsselbloem introduced this to Finance after the Coco affair, precisely in order to avoid completely intransparent who has all had access to certain decisions. So, if you'd like to take that with you, I'd be very pleased. And then the final point. Last year, Follow the Money announced that the Chamber was being informed incompletely and incorrectly, at least incompletely, about the precise decision-making that is taking place in Brussels and about the positions taken by the Netherlands in the negotiations. We have often drawn attention to this in the Chamber, but you often see that lobbyists have more information than we do here in the Chamber. We have previously advocated, for example, an EU monitor to clarify the positions of the Netherlands much more clearly, but I wonder how the cabinet deals with the provision of information on Dutch positions in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u98	I am really going to pass this on to the State Department, because there are separate debates with the Chamber about this information. This also has to do with the limited documents coming from Brussels. It also has to do with what we can already put in the BNC sheets. So I am going to keep that out of this debate, because that is really going too far. But those first two questions I'm gonna try to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u99	So the prime minister comes back to the register and the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u100	Yeah, I hope we get good answers there... well, good answers are always, but also provide adequate answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u101	I think now is the topic of cabinet planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u102	Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u103	Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yeah, the care. A few things about that. We have, of course, already discussed this in some detail this morning. Maybe there are still a few things left, like the bureaucracy in the care. I can answer that we will be committed to removing unnecessary bureaucracy in the care sector. Unnecessary bureaucracy is an essential part of reducing pleasure in work in healthcare. For example, the coalition agreement states that non-competitive procurement and accountability requirements for healthcare providers will be standardised. Other ways will also be taken together with healthcare providers and healthcare professionals to see where unnecessary rules can disappear. These can be rules of the government or of purchasing parties, but also from the care itself. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the shortage of care personnel. I have already said something about this in general terms. We see that for the short term at least the corona lanes have been extended to allow organisations to continue supporting functions in the care, but much more is needed. In the chapter on the labour market and the economy, I have already answered the question of how we are trying to deal with labour market shortages as well as possible. Then there is the question of what the cabinet is going to do to give more space to residential care initiatives, such as knarrenhoofjes. In the administrative agreements of April last year with Aedes, ActiZ, VNG, ZN and the ministries of BZK and VWS, the ambition was to build 50,000 clustered houses over the next ten years. In addition, there is the Task Force Living and Care. Together with a nationwide network of ambassadors, it stimulates the development of residential care visions and performance agreements. In addition, there is an incentive scheme for meeting rooms in older people's housing and for financing residential care initiatives by citizens and social entrepreneurs. In addition, money is reserved in the coalition agreement to stimulate housing care combinations. We discussed this very briefly at the housing market this morning. We are working on the further development of this measure. This is done in conjunction with other measures in the areas of care and care for the elderly. This is done in conjunction with all the organisations involved. It also looks at the potential barriers in municipalities that were a question of the CDA and other parties to ensure that the housing combinations really contribute to the longer autonomy of the elderly and that this is also encouraged. The cabinet wants to make agreements about this with corporations, municipalities and healthcare providers. Then there was the question about the follow-up to the administrative agreement Together strong for care. The approach Together, VNG, MantelzorgNL, VNO-NCW, SME-Netherlands and the Ministries of Social Affairs and VWS endorsed the approach. This is currently being implemented. I say to Mrs Den Haan: one part of this is the declaration of intent signed in July 2021 by VNO-NCW, MantelzorgNL, SZW and VWS. We continue to work for care. The approach Together strong for family care is therefore still topical. It's from October 2020. So we will see whether a new administrative agreement is appropriate and necessary. With regard to health care salaries, they stated that the normal system would continue to apply there. This means that the government will also make billions available in the coming years through the regular government contribution to labour cost developments, allowing market-based wage developments in health care. Mr. Chairman. There has been talk of pandemic prevention. I agree that, of course, that goes much further than just the direct step after corona. In the pandemic preparedness policy agenda, we will work out what we will do to be maneuverable, to be able to scale up better and thus be better prepared for future crises. The following key targets have been identified for this purpose. The first is enhanced public health. And then you look at the infectious disease control and the GGDs, among other things. The second is to ensure that the basis is in order, but that scalability is also possible. The third is increased security of supply and access to medical products. I would add that, as mentioned in the progress report on zoonoses policy, which was received by the Chamber at the end of last year, the Cabinet will present a national action plan on zoonoses. We want to shape this in cooperation with stakeholders. Then the long-term vision corona. I can tell you that, in line with the planning as promised by the previous cabinet, a letter will shortly be sent to review the approach for this winter. He's gonna be here soon. Then there is the planning to come up with the medium-term paper by the end of February. That's all in line with previously promised schedules. That is also what money has been earmarked for, as was said in yesterday's debate. In the Netherlands we do not have a vaccination obligation, even for care workers. That's what I'm telling Mrs. Van der Plas. We have no intention of changing that. Finally, Mr Omtzigt said that independent researchers should be in the lead and that the data should be publicly available in the study of excess mortality. On this point, I should like to point out that the last stand-of-case letter of 14 January by Ernst Kuipers sets out the steps taken and proposed to reply to a motion of equal importance. Two pathways shall be used to investigate the reasons and causes for excess mortality as soon as possible. Those investigations shall be carried out by the CBS and RIVM. Both institutes work independently of the cabinet. The studies are led by independent scientists. In addition, they will use additional academic expertise. The Minister of the United States will send the Chamber the answers to Pieter Omtzitz's written questions on excess mortality before tomorrow's corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u105	Thank you. There's been another couple of interruptions. Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Ploumen: you have two further questions. Mrs Marijnissen, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u106	I think it is perhaps the most sad measure of Rutte IV: the austerity of nursing homes. $400 million goes less. This leads to less or worse care. Quite specifically, this simply means that there will be fewer staff, because the staffing standard, which has been fought for for a very long time, is going to die. So there will be fewer people who can work in the nursing homes and who can take care of our elders. That just means that there are fewer people to get the residents out of bed, that there are fewer people to take a walk with them or to make sure that people can go to the toilet in time. My question to Mr Rutte is as follows. The fact that this staffing standard had to be introduced was also in his election programme four years ago. There was money in it too. What makes Mr Rutte think 'well, those nursing homes, they can get rid of that; they can do it with 400 million less; they can do it with fewer colleagues'? What signal did he get?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u107	First of all, we are not cutting back on that. Large additional funds are being allocated, including under the Long-Term Care Act. That amount rises from nearly 16 billion to over 17 billion. But it's true: if we didn't do this, there'd be another 350 million. Why are we doing this? I briefly appointed it this morning. This has to do with the double ageing of the population. We see how difficult it is to fill the vacancies and there will be more and more people using this type of care. We therefore want to stick to what I believe is at the heart of the quality framework of nursing home care and, at the same time, with all the people involved, to look for more space to organise that care differently. Then you can explore the possibilities in terms of innovation and technology, volunteers, carers and appropriate care. Indeed, there is also an amount in that to do less more. We'll work that out in the future. But it is also really necessary, I think, because we can see at the moment that there has been a sharp increase in staffing in nursing homes, but also that there is still a large shortage of staff. And in the long run, you can only see that growing further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u108	This is so weird. How can the answer to a growing shortage of staff be: we put less money into it? Anyone can think that, if that staff shortage is there... and yes, there is. And yes, that will only get bigger in the future, because we're all getting older. We just need more people to work in healthcare. I would therefore consider perhaps spending more money on better salaries in health care, which Rutte IV is not doing either. It hasn't reserved a penny for that. But how can the answer to "we need extra people in care" be that we are going to invest less money in that? It's not fair what the Prime Minister is doing here. EUR 400 million departs from what would be needed to keep care at the same level. That just means that the work has to be done with fewer people. That simply means that care for our elders is deteriorating. That is not just antisocial; at this time, when we are getting older together and in which indeed many more people are needed in care, it is really irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u109	I get that. At the same time, I think we should also recognise that the problem of this double hole arises in the care: on the one hand, more people use the care and, at the same time, there are increasing problems of getting the vacancies filled. This means that you also have to look at other techniques and other innovations. How can people live at home longer, can there be more combinations of living and care, can there be combinations of living at home with more intensive help at home, apart from the entire nursing home care? That is why we have said that we really need to take that space in order to organise it differently. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mrs Ploumen, PvdA. Then Mrs Den Haan, then Mrs Hermans and then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u111	At the point of concern. In any case, it is fair that the Prime Minister also just appointed what it is, namely: 4 billion in cuts. I'm sure I won't be the only one, but during this debate I'm getting e-mails from people from health care, youth care, nursing care, hospital care. That's what I got yesterday and last week. They ask me, "Who invented this?" Who thought we could do half a billion less when there are so many vulnerable children? Who thought it would be a good idea to give less care or less care? I thought I'd pass on that question to the Prime Minister. Who came up with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u112	Well, what's not invented is to give less good care. What's invented is that we keep spending a lot of extra money on health care. Youth care too: 300 million more will eventually go there. Less than anticipated, but still 300 million will be added. What you see in youth care is that with these large numbers that make use of it there is really an untenable problem, which puts the people who need it badly on the waiting lists. That is what the Committee of Wise Men, together with youth services, is asking, and that is what the whole transition agenda is asking, that the Committee of Wise Men, together with the local authorities, should think about and discuss how we are going to shape this in a good way, so that you can get rid of those waiting lists and those young people who need it right away, but at the same time prevent youth care being provided which is perhaps less urgent and which can also be delivered in a different way. I think it's normal to do that. It can't be that we just say "it grows and grows and grows," because then there will be a problem, even in youth care, with the manpower, because the vacancies simply cannot be filled. I also think that we, as leaders and politicians, can ask each other if there are things to be organized differently. And the same answer is there for care of the elderly. Also, we need to see how to organise loving care close to home or if people cannot stay at home in good elderly care institutions. We know that in the future a very large group of people will make extra use of this, because we are all getting older. At the same time, we also see that the current low unemployment makes it very difficult for police, fire brigade, health care and education to fill all these vacancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u114	The people who work daily with the elderly in a nursing home, the people who work daily with young people who need care, do not think this is wise at all. Carin Gaemers and Hugo Borst, who worked with a lot of other people a few years ago to improve the quality of that nursing home care, think this is a bad idea. Your own Jan van Zanen, a member of your party, so I would like to say to the Prime Minister, President of the Netherlands and the Association of Dutch Municipalities, has suspended the talks with the cabinet because of the cuts in youth care. And if I then write it down to the Prime Minister yesterday, because I thought: I have to remember to say that the way in which this cabinet is going to work is that all the positive forces within and outside The Hague, including the municipalities, are going to have an outstretched hand, then I have to note that not only in Groningen there was a false start, but also in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u115	At Groningen, I totally agree with that. But not here, because we can, I believe, only if politicians face each other that issues arise in youth care, in the care of the elderly, in health care at all, but also in other sectors, which have a great need to make use of them and a very high quality requirement that we rightly ask of each other, while at the same time asking: how do we get the staff? This really raises a number of issues, particularly in the field of youth care and care for the elderly. And if we don't face it, the shore will eventually turn the ship. So I'm really convinced that we should have that conversation with each other. That's what we're going to do with municipalities, by the way. When it comes to youth care, the coalition agreement identifies a few possibilities, such as normalizing treatment hours or introducing an own contribution. But these are discussions that we have to have, of course also with municipalities, and that is what we are discussing. That won't be an easy conversation; I realize that. At the same time, I think we all realise that we need each other very badly. And there's a lot of money coming up; it's not like we're cutting back on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mr. Chairman. When the quality framework was established and the staff standard was introduced and the corresponding money made available, it was already clear that this money could not be spent on healthcare staff, because it was simply not there at the time. That is still the case, so in that sense I understand the reasoning that the cabinet says: we cannot eat the 400 million. But here a bit revenges itself, again, the lack of vision, because you should assume the need for available care. The Prime Minister has just said: of course we have to start in the Netherlands from loving, high-quality care. I agree. But does he agree with me that we should first look at the need for this available care, and what exactly is needed in terms of money or budget? That's one. And two: can we possibly need that 400 million to see if we can actually invest in training volunteers, using technology, letting people live longer at home, and so to see if we can actually meet that qualitative, loving care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u117	I think you should do three things at once. That is indeed to establish, whatever Mrs Den Haan says, how the question increases and how one avoids that one ultimately does not have the people to do all that work. But we must also try to slow down the increase in the cost of care. Think of Van Mierlo: the blanket goes to one side of the bed. If we don't, and those costs keep rising, then you're partly in the cold. That's the real risk here. We need to make sure that enough money remains available, including for education, for the police and for all the other things the government does. I believe that this is also a joint task. Then we're not gonna cut back. That is indeed not what we are thinking of at Van Mierlo, but it was a fine statement from him. No, but seriously. If we do not do that, then I am really afraid that at some point we will have a problem with fulfilling this concern, without having thought about innovation, and also having to deal with a situation in which health care attracts such a large proportion of our national income, that it really is at the expense of other expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u118	Just to be clear...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u119	That's not a cutback, is it? That's less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u120	No, no, I get that. Because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u121	Finally, Mrs Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u122	... I hear you say that the cabinet does not cut back in this cabinet period, but we have to look at how we are going to slow growth in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u123	From the expenses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u124	From the expenses. I got that right, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u125	Yes. And in the longer term, we're not cutting back. It's still less than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u126	But that still means that if you develop a good vision of what we need for available care, now and in the future, you can see how you spend it together. So you don't really know that yet, because there is no such vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u127	I get that. However, where the overall importance is for us to slow down this expenditure on care, we now see at the same time, among other things, care for the elderly an opportunity to actually apply this brake, while spending is still going through a considerable amount. Then I think it is fair to do so, because otherwise you say: we will only do it if that vision shows that the money could not be spent in any other way. But the point is exactly what Mrs Den Haan says: in part, the issue has also arisen here because not all these resources are being spent as they were then intended, partly because of the problems of filling all the vacancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u128	That was your last question, Mrs Den Haan. You still have a second term. No, Mrs. Den Haan, this was really your last question. It is the case with everyone. There's been a hustling and sometimes cheating, but I have to keep it tough on everyone. Mrs Hermans and then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u129	I was just thinking about what the Prime Minister said about keeping work attractive in care and about tackling bureaucracy and regulatory pressure. I noticed with myself, but also with Mrs Ploumen and, in my opinion, Mrs Marijnissen, something like: yes, that must be done, but I think we have been calling that against each other for many years. So I have, in fact, a heart cry through you, Madam President, to the Cabinet and the Prime Minister. We now have two directors in the VWS Ministry who really come directly from care; a hospital administrator and someone from a nursing home, the long-term care. I really, really, would like to appeal to the cabinet to use these two directors, with all the knowledge and creativity they have, to really change and to get it done that we reduce that regulatory burden and that bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u130	Agreed. In the coalition agreement we had already mentioned a few, such as that non-competitive procurement but also standardising accountability requirements for healthcare providers. That's actually what we... anyway, totally once. Please let them also use their professional knowledge and experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u131	Exactly. It's wider than that. I know this measure. I also know that we have written this sentence down. I was there myself, so I feel responsible for it, too. That's why this heart cry to really use the creativity and knowledge they have, and to engage in conversation in this case. I also know that this has been happening for years, so I do not want to trivialize all the energy and effort that has been put into it. But I tasted it to myself: now we say it again and write it down. It really has to happen now, because it's going to be very difficult to attract people, just because they're simply not there. But the people who work in health care, we'd like to keep them there. Then the working pleasure should be as great as possible. That's what the rule pressure is really a rock of offense for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u132	Then let's make sure that... Mrs Kaag was right to do so. We have talked about it before, also in connection with this discussion. It is so special that we have two people here who both have enormous authority in their sector. This applies to both Conny Helder and Ernst Kuipers. Let us make sure that we give them the space to tell the honest story, at all about their work, but certainly also at this point. Maybe that won't always be popular either. Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u133	Mr Paternotte and then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u134	This was the block of care, including corona. In that case, we must also reflect on the feelings in the cultural sector today. Tonight is the action Theatre Kapsalon, where many theatres are cut and performed at the same time. Because of course the hairdressers are open and the theatres are closed. This is in line with the feeling of the museums, who said last week: how can we all go to the Bijenkorf and to IKEA and look at things in the Watch shop, but not in the museum? I understand that very well, because the maintenance of the corona measures, of the corona pass, was in the cultural sector, in the theatres but also in the cinemas, perhaps best, if you look at the figures of the RIVM. The sector has now also presented a roadmap for how they can be safely opened up. My question is whether the Prime Minister would like to take this very seriously, in order to ensure that we give the cultural sector the priority they deserve and not always give the feeling that they always have to close first and be able to open last.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yes. I would like to say straight away that I also said this at the press conference on Friday that events, culture and catering are now a priority as soon as there is room again. During the press conference, they asked why the IKEA was open and not the museum? I have also explained that it is unfortunately impossible to see that the IKEAs are going out of the middle class and the museums are coming back from the cultural sector. I'm afraid that's not legal. Of course, I understand that question very well. I have explained that the difference is not that for the museums, but for the theatres, the cinemas and the catering industry that it leads to longer stays and people who are closer together. That's different than in a store. So that's a rapportable thing to do. We hope, of course, that there will be more next week. I do not know if that is the case, because I was having a debate here today, so I have not been able to inform myself about it today. Another decision-making period is scheduled for Tuesday. But I get this. Of course, we also involve in this decision-making the very good work that is being done in the sectors. This is happening widely in the cultural sector, by the way. In the museums, but also wider, there are incredibly good protocols drawn up. That doesn't change the fact that you still have to go there and that you often go in through one entrance. So you're taking risks. That's why we had to make choices last week. We couldn't do everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u136	It is, of course, also a question of feeling: if we stick to the measures properly, maintain them properly, then there may be models that also point to the cultural sector. But can that be rewarded with a proper place on the list of priorities, and that it also makes sense? Of course, it is not really possible to explain what the difference is between the Bijenkorf and the museum, or between the Kijkshop and the small neighborhood museum around the corner. But, of course, for the cultural sector, there is also the following. In itself, there is a fine amount for the cultural sector in the coalition agreement. I think people are happy about that. There has not been such a high amount of money for the cultural sector before. But they're also waiting for that recovery plan. It would be a fantastic signal if the Prime Minister himself started working on this cultural recovery plan and, together with the Secretary of State for Culture and Media, who, of course, has just been put on it, could ensure that the recovery plan is in place before the summer. I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u137	That is what the Troika ministers are doing, because I am not going to be able to do. I'm telling you the truth. I just can't do that myself if I want to sleep for a few hours. But we have the most involved ministers looking at the economic impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u138	I'm looking very closely at that minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u139	That's Karien van Gennip, along with Sigrid Kaag and Micky Adriaans. So Micky Adriaans will be joining the debate tomorrow. So I'll make sure that she's also passed on to the public that she's preparing for that. It's a good point, though, from Fathernotte. We have said, of course, that we have the big arrangements; they are running. For culture, of course, all the necessary work has been done. But what you see now, wider in the economy, is that there are additional problems now that it takes so long. Think, for example, of the catering and other sectors. To be honest, we haven't really put that at risk for the cultural sector. I think it's a good point, so we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u140	I shouldn't really ask when the Prime Minister can hear it, but how many questions do I have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u141	Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u142	Hm! I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u143	You have five more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u144	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u145	Oh, no! It's not about the zoonoses, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u146	Why don't you take a good look? It's definitely about the zoonoses!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u147	More than I just read, I don't know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u148	It's definitely about the zoonoses. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister, like the whole of the Netherlands, has been struggling for two years with the consequences of a zoonoses. Corona is an infectious disease that has jumped from animal to human. We are warned that this will happen much more often if we continue to deal with animals in this way, if we continue to destroy nature, if we do not tackle climate change. My question is: does the Prime Minister really think it is justified to say now that we are still coming up with an action plan? The dangers are here now. Avian flu is the toughest ever in Europe. The RIVM warns that pneumonia caused by neighbors of goat farms could be a zoonoses. However, the number of goats is still allowed to grow. And every stall with chickens gassed because of the bird flu, is just filled with new chickens. Is that justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u149	If we were only to wait for the national action plan, Mrs Ouwehand is right. However, the policy agenda of pandemic preparedness will also focus on preventing infectious diseases at source. Of course, they're zoonoses. That is ultimately the definition of zoonoses. For that, a connection is made with what is already there. These are the valuable recommendations of the Bekedam Committee. We already have one. So they're getting involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u150	Indeed, that sounds better than the action plan we should be waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u151	Right. In the policy agenda this and then separately the action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u152	Yes, but a policy agenda is still not concrete action. Of course, it would be nice if the Prime Minister could say that from now on there really is a moratorium on the increase in the number of goats. The Bekedam Committee warned that if a bird flu infection occurred in a poultry holding in a water-rich area, it could not be refilled with poultry. That is the kind of measures I would expect right now. Those are the most minimal. In any case, you show your willingness to apply the precautionary principle. I call it exporting hatching eggs, so that we build poultry farms elsewhere. I call Russia. That's where the Netherlands does it. I read yesterday that we export hamsters to Hong Kong as pets. They're gassed now because they seem to have corona. I'd say we should stop doing that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u153	I'm not gonna promise you that we're gonna stop that bite-snap altogether. What we will do is to involve that recommendation of the Bekedam Committee in the policy agenda. So that's what it comes back to, but I'm not going to say anything here ex cathedra in the Lower House as she's asking; I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u154	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u155	I can imagine that the Prime Minister could not just undertake this kind of detail in his role as Prime Minister and not in his role as Minister of Health, or as Minister of LNV. But I think it is a good thing, given the risks, that we should receive a letter within a week on what precautions the cabinet is taking, pending further preparation of the plans in the action plan, in the policy agenda. But we should take a number of precautions now, because virologists are really wondering why there is no action from the cabinet when the avian flu is the worst ever in Europe. People have already been infected. We've known since Corona that viruses can mutate. Don't we let this happen, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u156	Of course, many precautions have already been taken. That policy agenda is coming this spring. I think we really need to get this involved. That won't be ready in a week, I can't promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u157	I believe that Mrs Ouwehand is asking whether there will be any before then when it comes to the precautionary measures...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u158	She wants a letter in a week. But I don't see that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u159	Or a little bit further in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u160	Would it not be possible for Mrs Ouwehand, perhaps, to ask a few questions about that part of the debate, very precisely how she wanted it, to Henk Staghouwer, the Minister of LNV? Then he can answer them quietly, but of course urgently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u161	It's a yes and no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u162	I hear mostly the yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u163	You heard the yes. I was ready to ask for a letter. That's very constructive. Look at me be constructive! And a week I actually thought it was quite a long time, but let's just...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u164	I noticed!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u165	... make it two weeks. Of course, if there's a bird flu infection in a stable with 177,000 chickens, they'll all be gassed within a day. Then I'd say you can agree that you're not gonna fill up that stable just as a precaution. I don't think it's that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u166	It is not the case that nothing happens as a precaution, that only action is taken when it is too late; it is not. My suggestion would be real, because I think that Mrs Ouwehand will also come up with a number of very specific questions, that she will send four or five questions to Staghouwer and that I will agree here that he has also passed on officially that he will respond quickly to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u167	Mrs. Ouwehand? Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u168	I'm going to think about whether I'm going to do it this way or with a motion that the Prime Minister can then say: yes, but I have to ask Mr Staghouwer about this for a moment. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the cabinet itself and a few practical points. Part of that has already been discussed here this morning. First of all, the different levels of government, local, regional, how are we going to connect them? That was a question from Mr Dassen. I believe that all rulers are always concerned with policy and regulation at what level and in what coherence between levels of action are being achieved. Coherence is, of course, a responsibility for each ruler in his own field, with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, of course, having an overarching special responsibility for coherence with the co-governments, and with the Minister for Foreign Affairs coordinating the policy of the cabinet in the European Union. I have noticed that in recent years too, unless Mr Dassen may have additions shortly after my reply, we have the right approach. How do we prevent us from becoming a centralist crisis cabinet? We don't want that at all. Only if we act together in the same way as governments can we deal with the major social issues, whether it be youth care, the fight against poverty, the energy transition or the housing shortage. That is why, in the light of Mr Van der Staaij's question, we shall be working in the broadest possible way on the cooperation between the Empire and the municipalities. Then back to Mr. Stassen. He also asked how we can ensure that the cabinet is prepared to see the high college of state journalism and so on not as an obstacle force but as a necessary counterpower. We already see this as a necessary counterpower, so I do not fully recognise that part of his speech, where he implicitly states that the government sees journalism as an obstacle. They have their role to play in our democratic system, and they fulfil it well and in admissibility. This does not mean that there is nothing to improve, and we will also have to have the debate on this. For example, in the coalition agreement, we agreed that we would come up with proposals to improve the provision of information to the Chamber, to broaden the necessary disclosure of documents, and to increase the scope for effective exchange of information between officials and MPs. Those conversations are going on, too. And, of course, a lot has already been done by the previous cabinet, such as the publication of the Ministerial Council's decision list, to provide the underlying decision notes to the Chamber. Personal policy views are also given to the Chamber. Of course, the Open Government Act is also relevant here, which has been introduced and leads to further transparency. With regard to the Constitutional Court, it has been agreed that, in line with the opinion of the State Committee on Parliamentary System, we will look at which design best fits the Dutch legal system. As a cabinet, we want to carry out the constitutional review, in which the cabinet uses, among other things, the letter sent by the previous cabinet at the request of the Chamber. On 16 December there was a letter from the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Legal Protection, also on behalf of the Minister of JenV. The referendum. We do not intend to introduce this. I've already answered the generation test. It was a very nice speech yesterday by Pieter Heerma, from his political conviction, on many issues, but among other things about a more cooperative society. I think it is right that he drew attention to the values underlying the political choices surrounding the organisation of society, and it was also Mr Van der Staaij who asked about the social vision of this cabinet. I think we should be honest here right away that in a coalition country such as the Netherlands, where the cabinet relies on groups of different political forces coalition agreements can never rely on one vision of society in advance. Those parties would have started a merger process before the elections. Nevertheless, it is the task of such a coherent team that a coalition should become to see how, from these different views, you can put the visions together and bring them into a commonality. I think you see some red wires in there, especially in the coalition agreement. There is a lot of space for society itself, but it also feels the need to co-form social goals as a government. I did not entirely agree with Mr Heerma's assessment of the purple cabinets. I was only a spectator as an unpaid active member of my party, if I could give a course once. I used to work in business. I didn't entirely agree with it, but I did find it very special how he painted a point about the creation of the purple cabinets and also the social sense and role of the government. I also look at my own party: from a small government to a strong government. There is a shift in thinking that we see wider in politics, and that is also in the coalition agreement. In that sense I found the counterpoint he put with purple interesting, where I also think purple played an important role in his time. In doing so, the cabinet realises that we cannot take these social issues off alone. That is not only with the co-governments as I have just said and, where necessary, with cooperation in Europe, but also with everyone who wants to be involved. Also the people, the entrepreneurs in the country. For example, the cooperative society can also be seen in the villages, the cities, in how people work for social objectives that lie there. You can see it in social service, regionalism and social entrepreneurship. Eventually, here too, it must be demonstrated by our actions. If we then come to a centralised crisis cabinet, as Mr Van der Staaij feared, we cannot live up to those ambitions. Mrs Hermans and Mr Heerma Oh yes, that sounds lovely to ask: when can we expect something? The various Lower House Committees have already asked for a general letter from the responsible directors. What I would like to say is that every minister who is in fact responsible for drawing up plans under the coalition agreement will, of course, send planning to the Chamber within three weeks at the latest. So within three weeks you'll get the planning. I cannot promise that all the main letters will be there in three weeks' time, but that within three weeks each member of the cabinet will be clear when they arrive. Then there was Volt's question as to whether we should inform the Chamber in good time about EU proposals and their handling. That will certainly happen, but according to the usual channels. So if there's an additional need there, I'd like to know. Then Mr Van der Staaij asked: how can we limit the duration of the formation? Well, I wish I knew. So far, with my presence, they last longer and longer. We have broken two more records, in 2017 and now in 2021 and 2022. Mr Jetten asked me at the last Council of Ministers whether I would not bring up the role of the King. No, I wouldn't, because that's obviously not a coalition view. I said something in the Telegraph interview about what my own party thinks about it, but that is not, of course, a coalition view. Also, the coming back or not of the King in the formation will not suddenly lead to a dramatic reduction of this. I think it is a good thing that the President has taken the initiative for an evaluation. Of course, the Cabinet is keen to be involved, if that is desirable. Then there are the ministers and the secretaries of state. The number of ministers in the cabinet is based on the coalition agreement's approach to major social issues in a multi-annual perspective, with broad budgetary resources and new powers. During the information process, we found them to be of such weight and size that it seemed wise to us to have the appropriate position within those ministries for the best possible realization, even in a state-law sense. And this also applies to those ministers, in the Council of Ministers as a whole, where the State Secretary, of course, has a very important position, but also, of course, their own constitutional embezzlement. Why not an immigration minister? Abroad, three State Secretarys are allowed to call themselves Minister, including the Secretary of State for Migration, who is also called the Secretary of State for Justice and Security in the corridors. And migration is a broad concept; this is, of course, part of the idea of returning people who have no business here, to which Mr Eerdmans referred. There is no provision for a right of veto within the cabinet for ministers vis-à-vis other ministers. This was specifically about the role of the Minister for Energy and Climate. But, of course, there is the presence in the Council of Ministers, the joint decision-making process, but also the extraordinary importance that is attached to the subject. That is where the shoulders of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, which is the classic unbreakable dual relationship, will probably also be very visible in the years to come to the Ministers dealing with nitrogen and climate. Otherwise, because of their coordinating role, it would become a risk that the results will not be achieved quickly, and perhaps even in the case of housing and land-use planning. No, I'm not gonna apply for a job myself. I intend to complete this term. I have no ambitions, I say again, to do something in Brussels, in Washington or anywhere else. I like it way too much here, and I also have the energy and the plans. I see some of them sighing, thinking he's finally getting the hell out of here. No, I'm staying here. Moreover, formal agreements on a follow-up function should not be allowed. That is also what the statement is about. You can apply, but they'll have to report to the prime minister that they do. Then it is also weighted whether the person in charge can stay on during the application. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions about the cabinet and our way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u170	There are a number of follow-up questions. I saw Mr Omtzigt standing there for a while. Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Hermans and Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you for the clear answer. There has been no search or application, and I am also curious to know who the Prime Minister is to report to, if the rest is to report to the Prime Minister. Should he report to the Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u172	I am thinking of the first Deputy Prime Minister, so that I call Mrs Kaag and say: there is a chance now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u173	That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u174	There's an opportunity coming along now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u175	That's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u176	But it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u177	I got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u178	So they'll know in Brussels, too, when the rumor machine starts again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u179	I've never seen you answer so quickly. Now for the second half of this interruption, before it goes too fast for me. I'm going back a sentence or ten when it came to the constitutional review. The Prime Minister referred to the letter of 16 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u180	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u181	But the letter of 16 December was precisely the letter in which it was said: we are going to work out some options and we are going to leave it to the next cabinet. That was also quite logical at the time, because we were facing a new cabinet. The same applies to the law on supervisors. My question was actually "too much," and that has more to do with what I am going to do over the next few years, whether I get the Prime Minister's firm commitment that we will have a proposal to amend Article 120 of the Constitution over the next one and a half years, plus a headline letter, which you need for constitutional review. The cabinet after Rutte IV, or the chamber that sits there, can then decide whether to complete that constitutional change. You're gonna need some kind of outline letter to tell us what that constitutional review looks like. For example, I preferred Article 68 to be included in that review, but someone else might say: we think that is a less good idea. That sounds like an open question. The Remkes Committee said that the article should be included in the administrative context. But there are also people who say, "Don't do that." There are also people who say: you have to do it with a constitutional court. Others say, no, let the ordinary judge test it. So you really do have some points you need to work out. So my question is: is this cabinet coming up with an article 120 Constitutional amendment, which is just too vague for me to work out, and with a outline letter on how it would like to fill this out? The next cabinet can do that. The same applies to the law on supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u182	I'd like to come back to this later. This is very precise. There's been a wiretap. I'd like to see it written out for me. This is where we say in the coalition agreement, as has just been said, that in line with the opinion of the State Committee, we will take up this constitutional review, looking at which design is best suited to the Dutch legal system. We are indeed using the letter of 16 December referred to by Mr Omtzigt. The letter provides a brief overview of the various possibilities of constitutional review. That's what I have here now. Mr Omtzigt is just going one step further. I'm just not sure, so let me find out for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u183	I note that this is enough for Mr Omtzigt. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u184	Another question about the relationship with municipalities and provinces. In the youth care department, we have already talked about the fact that cooperation with the municipalities has been put back to the test. I noticed that the Advisory Section of the Council of State in a letter on budgetary surveillance also says: there is quite a lot going on in the municipalities and provinces in the coming period, while the current financing system is quite unclear, complex and unstable. So there are actually potentially a lot of reasons for disputes in the coming period. That is a pity, because it is a huge task. So my question to the Prime Minister is: does the cabinet also do something with the recommendation to see whether clarity and calm can already be created on this point, including for the fellow governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u185	Yes. I recognise that the various flows of money, apart from the Province and Municipal Fund, may raise issues about the stability of benefits and their long-term anniversary, and that this may cause concern, which in turn makes it difficult to make decisions in the municipal domain. We have written in the coalition agreement that we also want to see how municipalities can further ensure stable revenues themselves. That's what we're gonna work out. I would like to assure you that this will also involve the aspect of long-term stability. Could that be an appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u186	Fine. And since it is already happening in the shorter term, this could perhaps already be discussed in the financial debate on the start-up note. That before that time there was already...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u187	I do not know whether it will succeed before that, which is the debate on the starting note rather soon. Nor is it with the Minister of the Interior, but with the Minister of Finance. But let's take a look at that; I don't want to make a firm commitment right now. We need to see whether this is feasible, because that will probably also require some inter-departmental consultation, within BZK and also between BZK and Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u188	Fine, if at least the signal is clear that we want to get more clarity on this in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u189	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u190	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD and then to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u191	Thank you for the Prime Minister's commitment. I would just like to clarify something about the 'planning of planning', as he called it, before this seems bureaucratic. I meant it very seriously: a planning or a timeline to see what directors are planning at what time and time. I believe that this will help to tighten up the control function and the control power we exercise here and, if it is necessary or if there is a lot to come together, to be able to set priorities as a Chamber, to see the coherence and perhaps to be able to merge debates at some point. I don't see it as planning. It's just the planning of how a ruler gets to work in the next period. As far as I am concerned, the main letters are included in that planning, so that we know when we can expect them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u192	It's exactly this. I'm just trying to play it back. We'd like to know when something's gonna happen. When's the headline coming? When will there be an impact on part x or a particular bill that has been promised and provided for in the coalition agreement? It is my intention to have that ready within three weeks per minister. It sends it to the Chamber and then you can put things together. I'll be off the hook, but then there's the clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u193	I gave Mr. Rutte some time to recover. At the same time, Mr Segers asked me something important, so I had to stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u194	I think that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u195	That, too. It was everything at once. I was just wondering if the block of migration would have been there. You were indeed referring to my question about the Danish Minister. My question is actually very specific: are you going to assure us that municipalities will no longer be forced to receive asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u196	This morning it appeared somewhere, but I myself have not been able to check that the term 'instruction' in that context will no longer be used in relation to the municipalities. But now I echoed what I saw on the website this morning. I cannot formally say this on behalf of the cabinet, but I understand that such an announcement has been made. If that's the case, I think that's wise. But again, I stand here all day and then there are things in the media of ministers and State Secretary, because they work through. But it's obviously unfortunate to have that misunderstanding again. However, the coalition agreement states that it must be possible, in extreme circumstances, to impose a mandatory designation on other governments. I am not saying that this should be the case, but there may be circumstances for which it is necessary. In 2015/2016, with the steep rise in asylum flows around the Syrian refugee crisis, the authorities and the municipalities finally managed to keep the matter somewhat manageable. Managing it was no longer possible, because for that the power was too large, but the municipalities could not do anything about it. It's worked out now, but I don't think this whole thing is gonna help with the relationship with municipalities. But I cannot promise that there will never again be a clue, because precisely because the coalition agreement provides for this option to be available in special circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u197	But what is the legal basis for that? That question has also been asked by Mr Omtzigt. I saw in the written answers that this is still being studied.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u198	For the future, we're going to study that more closely. In the past, it could only be administrative and not legally binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u199	So there is no ground, I think, except that you say with your finger up: you will welcome asylum seekers! But municipalities can just ignore that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u200	In the past, yes. But in the future we will see what legal basis you can give for imposing such an indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u201	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u202	I'm very curious how you're going to knit that legally. In the meantime, I understand that Secretary of State Van der Burg is on the phone with mayors to say that they can still feel a compulsion. It seems as if the mayors are still part of a game with the urgent message from the Empire to continue to receive people, while municipalities designated by the previous cabinet are unable to do so. Do you see the cramp in here? We are indeed talking about the relationship between governments. For many municipalities there is no room to apply this and there are population protests against it. As far as we're concerned, that compulsion shouldn't be there at all, and you should close the gate before you let the people in. I have also told the previous Secretary of State that it is far more fair to continue to regard this as a task of the state and not to force the municipalities to take care of it when they have to drag the cruise boats for it. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u203	That goes back to Mr Dassen's motion. Sorry, I mean Van der Plas' motion to use the top four floors in this building. Well, totally fine. Then we can take the Syrian refugees there; you will have to take them somewhere. This country consists of municipalities. There is not a piece of the Netherlands that does not belong to a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u204	It could be a matter of state that you say: then we choose that location. But you want to go on a legal tour to force municipalities to do that in their backyard. That's not good, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u205	Not specifically for asylum. We have said in the coalition agreement that we want, in general terms, to have the possibility, in special circumstances, if there is no other way, of giving municipalities an indication or a legal form similar to that. That's what we're gonna work out. That's one. The second is that what happened in December could not be more than an administratively very, very urgent request. And the third thing is, if we don't all help, the system's gonna get jammed. There is no part of the Netherlands that does not belong to a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u206	Then I think there are a number of varieties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u207	Excuse me, sure! I have a few other things in the section. Let me start with a few things that were still there, such as Mr Eerdmans' question about wind turbines. When drawing up the coalition agreement, attention has been paid to wind turbines on land and the obstacles that local residents may have to deal with. That is why the agreement includes clear distance standards for wind on land. Mr Eerdmans was more prepared to do so than I am. The options for distance standards are assessed in conjunction with other noise, drop shadow and external safety standards by means of an environmental impact assessment. On this basis, new standards for protection and for residents are drawn up by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Water State. They will be submitted to Parliament by the end of 2022. The questions raised by JA21, which are indeed specific to the judgment of the French judge in Toulouse, will be answered as soon as possible by the Minister for Climate and Energy. Then I owed Mr Azarkan an answer. Unfortunately, he was right. A distinction must be made between gross numbers and net numbers for the construction contract. Yeah, that's often the case; I know. The construction of 900,000 homes in 2030 is exclusive of demolition. So that's the gross estimate. If we add 100,000 homes to the stock per year, then the demolition will go away. This will enable us to meet the housing needs for 2030, which, according to external research, is net at 775,000 homes. In order to achieve the target of 900,000 by 2030, we need to speed up to 100,000 per year. The current number of houses added to the stock is 80,000 per year. So we're gonna have to raise it by 20,000. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions in the other section. Here too, we have already discussed what is necessary. There was a question about the concession introduction of the loan system. It's not meant to compensate. It's a concession. The coalition agreement has earmarked 1 billion for this, on top of the existing budget for study vouchers. At the request of the Chamber, there was a Futselaar/Van den Hul (Futselaar/Van den Hul) movement that variants for such a concession were previously drawn up and sent to the Chamber. These ranged between EUR 1.4 billion and EUR 11 billion. There is now 1 billion available, so that will be further developed. Then education. I think what Mrs Ploumen said about this is also really what we want to achieve. We invest in education and childcare. These plans also come to the Chamber in spring with a statement from the rulers. Then we are going to have the debate about it. But indeed, one of the detailed discussions we have had is that I tried to mention yesterday in the government statement too, which, in addition to mathematics, language and reading, so the basis on order, and investing in teachers and school leaders, also the equalizer, is of great importance in education, as I think Mrs Ploumen mentioned it. It's important that everyone has the wind in their backs, no matter where your crib was, what conversations were held at home and what perspective you got from your immediate surroundings... In my family, no one had studied, so I didn't have the perspective at home that it was normal to go to college. But if you do get that perspective from home, then the chances of going to the havo or vwo with sufficient intelligence may be greater. We know all these issues. We also talked about it at the APB with Segers, following the book The Meritocracy Trap. One of the things that we have really talked about in detail in the formation is the importance that education also contributes to that and that children, regardless of where the cradle is, have the chance to achieve what they want to achieve at the end of the day at their talent and intellectual level. Then the hands and the brains are equal, because everyone is equally valuable. But it shouldn't be that someone who can go to university doesn't do that, or that someone who would have liked to work with their hands, goes to university because of social pressure. Well, the latter is a social problem that can be looked at, but the reverse problem is, of course, much more common. That is absolutely one of the objectives. Then the polarization in society. In terms of polarisation and resilience, we also want to try to base as much policy as possible on recent scientific insights. There is a work plan 2022-2026 of the Knowledge Platform Integration & Society, the KIS. There one is engaged in an in-depth investigation into polarization and connection. That is also one of the lines of the programme. This platform is funded by Social Affairs and Employment. The previous cabinet established a special chair at VU in 2019 with polarisation and resilience as a teaching assignment. It will continue in the coming years. Furthermore, on an occasional basis, in-depth investigations are commissioned in relation to polarisation issues. Those investigations and the results will always be sent to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the terrible question of the children who have been placed out of the house. On 26 November, in the context of the child allowance affair, Sander Dekker, the Minister for Legal Protection, sent a letter on behalf of the previous cabinet on the removals of children from duped parents. This is, of course, a very serious matter and an issue that affects people in an incredibly heavy way, especially those who have been affected by government action. In conversations with duped parents, they called us only on the approach "How do we proceed with this? If everything is actually ready and parents can also call on it, they can communicate. We hope to have that done in the short term, namely at the end of the first quarter 2022. In other words, return to one's own family, of course, if that is safe, is the desired outcome for all parties. But I also say quite honestly that this will not always be possible. The responsible authorities are also involved in this. In the case of forced removals, the judge must assess that. Where this is not possible, support should therefore be directed towards acceptance or at least improving contact between parents and children. A second aspect that relates to this is that Sander Dekker in that letter... Sorry, I don't know if it's the same letter. In any case, he spoke in a letter about independent research into the functioning of the youth protection chain in these removals. The Health and Youth Inspectorate and the Justice and Security Inspectorate have accordingly announced their intention to launch an investigation. On 17 January this year, the inspections carried out the research programme "How was youth protection dealing with families affected by the supplementing affair?" Announced. That study is expected to be completed by the end of this year. I understand that a separate debate has also been requested on this point with Franc Weerwind, the Minister for Legal Protection, and the Secretary of State of the United States of America, Maarten van Ooijen. So this is an extremely sensitive issue. Mr. Chairman. Finally, if I may, I would like to say something to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u208	Before you proceed, there is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u209	In October, the Prime Minister in Brussels said that the bottom stone was being brought up, and on 10 November, the Chamber unanimously adopted a motion, including that of MP Kaag, MP Hoekstra and MP Rutte, asking for independent research, to make proposals to reunite parents and children, to set up a hotline and to indicate how justice can be done for parents and children. We are now in January and I note that there is no hotline and that so far there have been zero parents and children reunited. But I do get the same texts as in October, namely: the judge has to undo it. But the problem was that the chain hadn't worked. It is now even being discussed that support should be directed towards acceptance. The Prime Minister says that children have been unjustly evicted, but because they can't go back, parents need to be helped to accept that. When does the Prime Minister think that the first child who has been unjustly removed from his home, we are talking about 1,115 cases that are being investigated, can be reunited with his or her parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u210	I didn't say that at all. What I have said is that in this incredibly incorruptible and extremely precarious case, which is extremely sensitive, there is no 100% guarantee that all children can go home, because ultimately it is in the best interests of the child that we have to consider whether that is possible. Of course, the aim is to do so as much as possible and if possible in all cases, but I cannot give that guarantee here. That is a balance that the judicial authorities must make in the end. I didn't say they all stay away from their parents and we're gonna try to make that acceptable. I did not say that at all, quite the contrary. All I have said is that it must be possible to do so safely and that, of course, it would always be a result desired by all the parties involved, but that is not possible in 100% of the cases. You don't know if in 100% of the cases the drop-out was just about the child care allowance affair or maybe there were other things going on. We don't know that, so we should leave some room for that. That's the only point I made. Furthermore, the letter from Dekker was sent on 26 November, that there have been conversations with duped parents and that they have just said: do not come out until the parents can really appeal to it. That is now foreseen at the end of the first quarter of this year. Franc Weerwind is working on it right now, together with Maarten van Ooijen. That's not something you just finished. That is also a very sensitive process. That's gotta be careful. Because if we don't do that right, we run the risk of parents checking in somewhere and then not getting picked up properly. That really needs to be done very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u211	I've spoken to several parents, and those were intensive conversations. Those parents don't even have anyone they can ask to help. They're not even getting the file on why the kid was placed out of the house. I have a parent waiting 13 years for the file. They do not hear the reasons and they have the childcare allowance. Two of her four children have been placed out of the house and she really has no idea. There's not the beginning of help for these parents. There's not the beginning of a hotline. There's not the beginning of help from the city. There's not the beginning of help from the IRS. I understand it hasn't all been solved, but there isn't a child back to the parents yet. My question was: when do you think the first children will be able to reconnect with their parents and reunite? That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u212	The last thing I'm going to do here is create hope while this process is now being handled very carefully. I'm not just gonna call a date here, am I? Wouldn't that be extremely unwise? Mr Omtzigt would rightly blame me for doing so. That letter was sent on November 26th. Mr Omtzigt himself requested a debate with Franc Weerwind, with Maarten van Ooijen, with the directors concerned, to discuss this very carefully and precisely with each other. The intention is for parents to hear, in the short term, exactly how communication is going to take place and how they can make use of it. The aim is to do so at the end of the first quarter. That's the honest answer. If I'm going to say here "and then the first parents are reunited with their children"... That is, of course, an impossible question. That will have to be looked at very carefully on a case-by-case basis. You have to consider everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u213	The official guidelines are that when a young child is out of the house for more than six months and a somewhat older child for more than a year, it is no longer aimed at returning to the parents. In fact, the situation is left that way. So if you wait more than six months with action, then you know that for all young children the removal is final. I'm saying that's very painful, and that's why I'm asking for deadlines. I'm not asking for deadlines because it's easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u214	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u215	And then, an independent investigation. We have found out that children have been placed out of the house for ten or fifteen years, both voluntarily, that was not at all as voluntary as I speak to those parents as mandatory and that the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the Justice and Security Inspectorate have not intervened. The fact that these two inspections have the lead on the investigation and just looking at how that happened means that their own role is completely out of the question. The motion called for an independent investigation. I went to Minister Dekker, to Minister Grapperhaus, all before 26 October, for the letter of 26 November. Last week I immediately visited Minister Weerwind, who received me immediately. I told them all. I can give you the memo I wrote before. How is it that an investigation is being carried out with the authorities that should have monitored, which at least seems to have been wrong? Why do I have to call constantly and ask for an independent investigation, so independent experts who have had no role in this? I'm not saying those inspections did something wrong, but they were so close that they weren't fit to do this investigation, were they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u216	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u217	Mr Omtzigt has already spoken to Mr Weerwind. I think it's a good thing that I also call Franc myself and come back to that in second term. I really think that's better. I think it's getting too messy. I totally get this. I fully agree with Mr Ommzigt on the extraordinary sensitivity of this subject and the independence of the research. I sincerely believe that with the way it has been designed, that independence is guaranteed. But that is what he has also talked about, I understand, with the Minister for Legal Protection. I haven't had a chance to inform myself of that. So that's what I really want to do and then I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u218	I understand that, and I didn't go to the minister's office last week for nothing. I have also deliberately put all these points on the table. I will also give you the note that the other ministers have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u219	Through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u220	Of course through the messenger, Mr. Chairman. I think it's very important. I would like to say right away: do not just look at the issues of the children's removal in the child care allowance affair. There are really indications that there are serious abuses in children who are not involved in the child care allowance affair too; look at the report by Defence for Children, at the broadcast of Argos; I believe that Mr Leijten has been working on it. I'd like to hear it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u221	I will come back to that in the second term. Then let's do that very carefully. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u222	Of course, taking into account the fact that the process is indeed precarious, it has been created in such a way that it is very precarious, yet the fact that there is also a number of parents, a small number, although they have been compensated satisfactorily and for whom the supplement affair has been somewhat completed. They were happy with the Catshuis scheme or they met in a different way. If we know these parents, have them in maps and can say 'you have been a victim of a state failure', then we also know that at least those parents should be able to solve this issue with possibly children who have been removed from their homes. Then it is very difficult for me to understand why there are still zero children home if there is also a group of parents for whom the trial, at least financially, seems to have been handled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u223	I get that question. I'll get back to you in second term. I think it's really more complex, but I'd like to check some of that out. I get the question. I am referring to that in the reply that I will also give to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u224	Then there's nothing left for me but to wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u225	Thank you, Mrs Simons. I think there was another reaction from you to Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u226	Yeah, one last reaction. He quoted Saint Anthony. That reminded me of a song by the Limburg band Rowwen Hèze about the same saint Antony. I think Mrs Ploumen knows that. I'm not going to sing it in Limburg dialect and not even say that I'm going to leave that to Mrs Ploumen, but in The Hague Dutch it's sometimes better to lose something beautiful than you never had it. Although, of course, I would like to encourage Mr Segers not to leave pieces lying on the train, there is certainly something better to lose than you never had. Finally, Mr President, I wanted to share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u227	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side. There's another interruption. Yes, that is what we agreed: a final question from Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u228	I asked a question about combating discrimination and racism. For the first time, a government agreement has recognised that we are dealing with institutional racism. After that, a lot of other sentences follow, but I don't really see anything else about it. Can the Prime Minister give us some direction as to what the thoughts are about, how we will continue to investigate that and what we are going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u229	So that's what we're gonna do. As I said yesterday in the government statement, we want to go to a country in which we are going to do our best to eradicate discrimination and racism altogether. This is also about the racism that may not be felt in organisations and is not always experienced in this way, but that it may be possible to take place in a more structured form there. This can be due to the culture in a company, an organisation or a government organisation; this can of course occur anywhere. We've had that discussion before. That's essential if you really want to get rid of things like this. It is very important that we can combat discrimination and racism. Following the terrible murder of George Floyd two years ago, we had a few meetings in the Catshuis with representatives of groups in the Netherlands who unfortunately still have more than average to do with this. At that time we also said to each other: in a modern, civilised country, this cannot happen. It shouldn't matter what your skin color, your gender, your sexual orientation or whatever it is. Get rid of that! That's what we want to achieve. That's gonna be a real joint search. That's not something we can organize by law. But institutional racism is, of course, part of the discussion. How can you acknowledge it, and how can you fight it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u230	Thank you. We have now come to the end of the first term of office. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his detailed reply. A number of MPs have asked to suspend for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u231	I think that's a brilliant plan!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u232	It's beautiful, isn't it? After that, we will start immediately with the second term of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting until 4:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u233	I ask the Members to take their place again. The next item is the second term of office. We are engaged in the debate on the declaration of government. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u234	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the indecent cabinet. They are indecent because they suffocate AOWs by not letting their AOW grow along with the increase in the minimum wage. That's unforgivable. Those AOWs have often worked their whole lives hard, sit at home now and can't raise their income by going to work. That is not only indecent, but also antisocial and mean. That's very, very mean. For this reason alone, because of the failure to grow the AOW, Rutte IV deserves a vote of no confidence. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is also indecent because it spends no less than 75 billion euros in the coming years, but at the same time lets the whole of the Netherlands decline financially. Rutte lies when he says here today that there will be a relief for everyone. According to the Central Planning Bureau, families receive a burden increase of EUR 3.1 billion for their choice. That's just in the CPB tables. It would have been decent if a large part of the 60 billion for climate and nitrogen had been used for more money for ordinary men and women in the Netherlands, for better purchasing power. For example, the PVV believes that the increase in the energy bill for households should be fully compensated. But this cabinet doesn't do that, because the ordinary citizen doesn't care at all. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is also indecent because it saves EUR 400 million on nursing homes, which means that our older people have to do it there with as many as 6,000 fewer care workers. While the nursing homes already have a huge staff shortage, 6,000 more employees are going off. Mr. Chairman. This is an antisocial and indecent cabinet. It is also not the Rutte IV cabinet, but the Kaag I cabinet, which is running the D66 election programme. There are tens of billions for nitrogen, climate, development aid, culture, more European Union, more asylum seekers, more immigrants and more misery. But millions, but also millions of Dutch people long for an affordable shopping bag, for a lower energy bill, for a decent care, for a higher AOW benefit and for 10,000 extra agents to finally tackle that growing crime in their street, their neighborhood, their city. Many Dutch people long to be proud of their own country and their own culture. They want our money to be spent on our own people again and the borders closed for more lucky seekers, even more non-Western immigrants and more Islam. But the Rutte IV cabinet completely ignores their wishes. It does the opposite and is, as far as I am concerned, already a historic low. Never before have we seen the demise and decay of the Netherlands so clearly in a new cabinet. With Rutte IV a small elite reigns, who seems to have a good time with each other and who himself is financially well in order but who is totally, but also totally detached from reality and does not care about the ordinary man and woman and their worries. It's the people who just don't get it all and fish next to it that you don't care about and leave you in the cold. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet therefore does not deserve to rule for one more day. That's why my most important motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u235	In the event that this motion does not pass, I still have a number of motions to correct the policy. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to increase the AOW benefit equal to the increase in the minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u236	The second motion, Madam President, reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to fully compensate for the increase in the energy account for households,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u237	And then the care, Mr. Chairman. It is also unbelievable that there is still no structural increase in capacity on the ic's, at least to the European average. How many times have I and my colleague Agema asked for this? And it's not gonna happen. That's why I'm making another attempt, with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to increase its ic capacity structurally to the average in European countries, i.e. 2.000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u238	Mr President, then safety. As I said just now, people are craving a safe street, in which one of the 5,500 cars is not set on fire again, in which they are not bothered again, in which they are not broken into again and in which they are not threatened. The police don't have time for that right now and the cabinet spends a crumb on it. So I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make a structural release of EUR 1 billion for 10,000 additional agents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u239	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to purchasing power, we also think that, as I said just now, the EUR 60 billion that is now being spent on the left-wing ideological hobby of climate and nitrogen, should go to the citizens, should go to the Netherlands. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to spend the €60 billion earmarked for climate and nitrogen on affordable messages, petrol, energy, care, safety and purchasing power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u240	Mr. Chairman. Two more motions on terrorism and on the terrorist who advises the Prime Minister's Party, the VVD. The VVD Party made a proposal earlier, a few years ago, which was never implemented, to ensure that people convicted of terrorism are always deprived of their right to vote. I repeat that in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the right to vote and stand as a candidate of convicted terrorists is always deprived,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u241	Finally, Mr President. Normally, in this house, we don't deal with what other parties do. Hence not a call to the cabinet to do anything, but a speech-expression. I find it so shocking that this terrorist is Soumaya Sahla's advisor to the Prime Minister's party that I think the Chamber should give its opinion on this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that it is highly undesirable and unacceptable that a convicted terrorist advisor should be national security advisor to the Prime Minister's Party of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u243	Thank you very much, Mr Wilders. Then I give the floor to Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u244	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister and to all officials for answering all the questions asked. In my speech yesterday, I talked about strong politics, where we are discussing the content with each other in order to make the Netherlands better. The debate here in the Chamber was not nice at a number of moments, but at a number of moments, both yesterday and today, we discussed the content well, albeit firmly. I sincerely believe that if we, as the House of Representatives, meet in this Parliament and debate and cooperate in this way, we can control all major issues and problems in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement has great ambitions: ambitions to solve the big problems, to make the Netherlands safer, to strengthen middle groups and entrepreneurs. The chord has not yet been fully worked out, or cast into iron or concrete, I think you say. All parties, including us, remain open to improving matters when current events give rise to them or when better ideas simply come along. We debated and discussed purchasing power for a long time yesterday, and I have also been here for a while. I am pleased that the cabinet has today indicated that it will come forward with proposals to return to the agreement we made in the coalition agreement for a balanced and positive purchasing power picture for all groups in the Netherlands. This must be done for all groups, because middle groups must improve on it and work must pay, and with specific attention to older people. My colleague Pieter Heerma will be tabling a motion on this later, and I will wholeheartedly support it. Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I mentioned that one of the key test points for my group will be whether the plans and investments are financially sound and fit within the budgetary rules and arrangements we have made, and whether the Chamber remains properly and properly involved in all the expenditure that is going to be made. This cabinet is going to invest to solve problems for future generations. So we can't ship them with a big debt. Much has already been said in the Chamber about the large funds for nitrogen and climate. My group fully shares the need for the Chamber to remain involved. Mr Segers will table a motion asking the cabinet to really seal the parliamentary involvement in the funds. I'll co-sign that motion. Mr. Chairman. We have also been talking today about the restless world around us and about the risk we are facing at the external borders of Europe. I share the concerns expressed in the Chamber. I also emphasise the importance of keeping our own defence capabilities and continuing to strengthen them with investments in defence and with increased cooperation in the foreign field. Sometimes the threat is also close to home. This cabinet invests heavily in strengthening the security of the Netherlands and in agents on the streets, but also in digital security. I already indicated in my first term that I am concerned about the digital security of the Netherlands, and then specifically focused on entrepreneurs. How do we prevent cybercriminals from holding entrepreneurs hostage digitally? This is becoming a growing concern in the coming years. The coverage this afternoon in De Telegraaf about the quantum computer indicates how fast developments are going and how important it is that we arm ourselves against this. That is why I call on the Cabinet to speed up its approach and to protect entrepreneurs from these criminals. For that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we are seeing a shift from offline crime to cybercrime at both national and international level;]] [[noting that one in five SME entrepreneurs are victims of cybercriminals and that cybercrime continues to increase for SME entrepreneurs;]] [[Whereas this cabinet aims to detect and combat new and increasing digital threats and attacks assertively while investing in cyber expertise with our intelligence and security services;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward concrete proposals as soon as possible to better protect entrepreneurs from digital threats and cybercriminals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hermans, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u245	Finally, Mr President. This cabinet has a lot of ambition, so I am curious about the planning and all the content that comes after it, of all the directors and all the members of this cabinet. We must work on the challenges of this age for the future of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u246	Thank you. Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with Groningen, because I find it painful. We had really hoped that this debate would bring more for Groningen, regardless of what you think of Rutte IV and of opposition and coalition and all the political struggle that is being waged here. It is really painful that no guarantee has come about anything that has been asked. There has been no guarantee for the people of Groningen that the economic interest will no longer exceed the interests of Groningen. This is not only disappointing for those 10,000 people who were on their feet in Groningen on Saturday and for those more than a quarter of a million people who have expressed their solidarity online. It goes even further than that, as far as we're concerned. It is the false start of this cabinet, Rutte IV, which has much to do with the lack of trust that there is in society. We would have thought that, if there were any real steps to be taken here today, that might have helped. But none of that is the case. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction in Groningen may be increased and will last longer;]] [[believes that the safety of Groningen should be paramount;]] [[calls on the Government not to increase the extraction of gas and, in the short term, to provide a legal basis for the cessation of the extraction of gas from the Groningenveld as of 1 October 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u248	Mr. Chairman. One thing I found surrealistic in this debate was the rather solid discussion we had here about whether or not to tackle the wealth inequality in our country. That's a hell of a problem. Not only do we think that, but also the parties that are now part of the Rutte IV coalition. All of them had been included in their electoral programmes that these great abilities would be more heavily burdened. That seems to us to be a very sensible idea. Then, in the end, the outcome of the negotiations is really unimaginable that the large assets will not be taxed, as planned, but even 100 million less, while the capacity inequality in our country is already so great. We are from the rich Western countries after the United States the country with the greatest power inequality. I told you yesterday. The more than 2,000 super rich Dutch possess as much as 10 million 10 million! Other Dutch. It is unbelievable that we have to debate all day about all kinds of things that this coalition wants to take away from people, whether it is about linking the AOW to the minimum wage or the good care or that the purchasing power picture shows that Dutch people are just getting worse when things are going well with the economy, and that nothing is going to happen in this essential debate. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has an uneven distribution of assets;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement does not include measures that reduce the high capacity inequality;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop measures to reduce the capacity gap and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u249	Mr. Chairman. Then care. During the kick-off yesterday, the Prime Minister once again talked about the famous outstretched hand to the opposition. We have not seen him, at least not on the specific points that have been made. The decoupling of the AOW was one of them, but certainly also the cuts in youth care and nursing homes. For youth services, we have co-signed a motion which will be tabled later in this debate. I find the austerity in nursing homes to be the most painful, because it is so immediately said not only us, but also in the passing on of the Central Planning Office, which will lead to fewer staff in the nursing homes. And that leads to less or worse care. We all know that the workload in nursing homes is already high at the moment. We have fought for so long that some money was added and it is really antisocial and irresponsible to say now 'we are taking EUR 400 million away'. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2017 the Quality Framework for Nursing Home Care provided a structural budget of 2.1 billion for improving the quality of nursing home care;]] [[noting that there is still insufficient staff in nursing homes, which puts pressure on the quality of care for the elderly;]] [[calls on the government not to cut down on the Quality Framework Nursing Care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Azarkan, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u250	Mr Wilders just tabled a motion on the maintenance of the link between the AOW and the minimum wage. We will, of course, support them. Here's what I'm saying. We talked a lot about that yesterday and today. Older people who have been dealing for so long and so often with pensions that have not been indexed for years also have to do with rising rents, rising prices for groceries, and rising energy bills. It simply cannot be explained that, in times of economic growth and in times of a cabinet that is going to spend billions, you come up with "yes, but that AOW cannot take over." It is even more fundamental in our view than that, because that link has once been established for a reason. We thought it was a question of civilisation that older people's incomes would rise with the incomes of working people. This release now creates a very, very undesirable precedent for the future. This makes it a very fundamental point for us. As far as we are concerned, this link remains in place. In any case, should these miserable plans continue, which we will continue to oppose strongly, we would like to table a motion to record that the elderly will be compensated for this. The VVD Group has indicated that everyone should eventually get a plus. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to release the link between the level of the minimum wage and the AOW;]] [[noting that after years of decline, pensioners are once again hit hard by this;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to achieve purchasing power progress for pensioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u251	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two brief motions on residence. The Prime Minister indicated that that debate should be unidentified. We don't think that for a while. That is precisely the problem. That is why the next motions to at least make some specific arrangements. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that housing costs due to inflation and hugely increased energy prices are rising much faster than income;]] [[Whereas hundreds of thousands of tenants in both the social and the free sector are not sufficient to sustain their livelihoods;]] [[calls on the Government to freeze the rents in the social and free sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the total number of social housing units has fallen by more than 100,000 homes since 2013;]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement encourages the further sale of social housing;]] [[calls on the government not to further reduce the total number of social housing units,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-125]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank all my fellow Members for what I think was certainly not a substantive debate at the beginning, a substantive discussion with each other. I hope this conversation is a start and I hope we can continue. Thanks also to the officials of all ministries who contributed to this debate. It was nice to see. The Prime Minister issued the government statement of the most diverse cabinet ever. We saw here that three quarters of vocational K consisted of women during this debate. We've never seen that before. In fact, there should be only one change, which means that next time a woman pronounces the government statement. Anyway, after the election of 2025, we're going to look at that further. I'd like to give the cabinet three assignments. The very first is based on people and not on rules or systems. Assuming what people need to move forward. It is clear that this is necessary, also because there are so many Dutch people who have experienced that the government has turned against them, whether the parents are in the bonus affair or the Groningers. Because of Groningen and I agree with the sentiment that many have rightly expressed here, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people from Groningen are entitled to safety, clarity and perspective;]] [[whereas the news that more gas is needed this year from the Groningenveld gives a lot of uncertainty to the people in Groningen;]] [[noting that we have a duty to provide safety and clarity to the people of Groningen;]] [[calls on the Government to develop alternatives to prevent the extraction of extra gas from the Groningen field;]] [[calls on the Court to inform it as soon as possible but at least within six weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Paternotte, Hermans, Pieter Heerma, Ploumen, Klaver, Segers, Dassen, Ouwehand, Azarkan, Simons, Den Haan, Van der Staaij, Omtzigt, Van der Plas and Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u253	The second task is to protect the democratic rule of law, which is under pressure. We have had this debate while the threat of a Russian military operation is on the outskirts of Europe. I am pleased that we have been able to reflect on this and that the Prime Minister has said that his absolute priority in foreign policy is the coming year to ensure that Europe can play that role in defence in its own backyard. But also here in the Netherlands, because we see this radical anti-democratic movement that acts in conspiracy theories and contributes to it and helps create a culture in which it is possible to make threats against scientists, journalists, politicians and so many others. The third task I would like to give to the cabinet is urgent, because we would like to see the coalition agreement implemented as soon as possible. We know that the Central Planning Office has warned that the challenge is that there are many places where there are too few people for the ambition for almost free childcare, speeding up the energy transition and building so many houses. We need a lot of people to do that. This applies to many sectors. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CPB points to the tight labour market as a possible obstacle to the rapid implementation of the plans in the coalition agreement;]] [[Considering that successfully addressing the major challenges of the Coalition Agreement is a matter for sufficient people to address these challenges;]] [[Whereas, on the contrary, there is a serious shortage of professionals and retraining or further training through vocational training;]] [[Whereas, despite low unemployment, too many people are still on the sidelines;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward a very short-term approach to labour market shortages, both generic and specific to the sectors of living, care, education, climate, (international) safety and childcare, looking at successful international policies and the opportunities within vocational education, and to report to the Chamber of Summer Recess;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Paternotte and Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u254	Mr. Chairman. Finally, teachers' salaries. In the meantime, 900 million have been made available for this year's increase in teacher's salaries in primary education. We are incredibly pleased with that, because that means that we are finally closing the gap between primary and secondary education. But the money has been released for this year. We therefore want these salaries to rise from 1 January this year, so indeed now with retroactive effect, so that we close that pay gap. By this we say to everyone who wants to work in education that they will receive that salary at that level if they start that work now. That is badly needed, because in the corona era we see that a lot of classes are at home because there are too few teachers and we already had a shortage of teachers. We want to convince people, including with this salary jump, to take the step towards education. Mr President, this is the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the shortage of teachers is an acute problem which places a heavy burden on the quality of education;]] [[Considering that, as of January 2022, the coalition agreement reserves funds to completely close the pay gap between primary and secondary education teachers;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a letter within eight weeks on closing the pay gap between p.o. with retroactive effect from January 2022, in order to speed up collective bargaining,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Paternotte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u255	Mr. Chairman. Once again, many thanks to the entire cabinet for their contribution to this debate. Their working period is over with this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u256	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. There is a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u257	In the first term, Mrs Hermans, on behalf of the VVD Group, said that no Dutch household should decline. I have only interpreted that as none of the 116 categories, because it will not be meant at individual level. So far, I have not seen any repairs from the coalition for the significant loss of purchasing power that has occurred this year. Is that still from one of the coalition parties? Which of the four parties should I report to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u258	On the broad purchasing power picture, we have said that we naturally want to know how inflation is going to work. If you hear in January that something is changing for this year, it is incredibly difficult to do something about it at that time. I think Mr Omtzigt knows very well which instruments are and are not suitable. But we said that the Central Economic Plan was there in March. Then we also know exactly what inflation has done this winter. We know that it is driven by gas and energy prices in particular. Then we know what we can do. We have said that we want a positive and balanced purchasing power for all groups throughout this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u259	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u260	Okay, so we're talking about including 2022, so there's not a year that falls between the two cabinets. It's part of the cabinet period. But this year we have nothing. I would like to stress here that many opposition parties have said in recent months: 'The inflation forecast of 2%? Mwah, we don't like that." It's not like we were psychic in the opposition, but we just looked at the CBS website. We saw that inflation was already 5% and that core inflation on food, i.e. excluding energy, also goes towards 3%. Do I have to remember that everyone will have to continue to pay the energy bills with the increase of hundreds of euros in the coming months and then hope that in March, April, May or June there will ever be a follow-up? That's about what's being said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u261	Of course, that's not quite the story, because 3 billion people have come to repair these energy costs. For those for whom it is most difficult to bring this up, the special assistance has a further 200 million on top. I am thinking of additional support for people in a social housing unit, who cannot just get this house isolated. I don't think that's in the picture we got from the Nibud yesterday. At the same time, I say that Mr Omtzigt is, of course, right to say that these warnings on inflation have indeed proved to be justified. So that's what I like to give him. But let's take a little step back. What we are discussing here, and we haven't really thought about that very much, is that these huge investments in climate, but indirectly, of course, also in all kinds of other ways in the energy transition and in the circular economy, are meant to make sure that we are no longer a play ball. What is happening now with gas, but also with the energy bill, is because we depend on Russia for gas and, in a sense, on Norway. It is because we still depend on other countries, especially in the Middle East, from which we import petrol at the pump. We want to get rid of that. We want to make sure that we are no longer dependent on energy. That is why this coalition agreement sets in motion a historically large operation, so that we no longer have to have this kind of talk about how incredibly annoying it can be for people that we are that toy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u262	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I want to go to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u263	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. Thank you for his explanation of the Dutch commitment to the very serious situation in Ukraine. I am afraid that we will be discussing this more often in the near future, because there is every reason to do so. Mr. Chairman. It happened in an interrupting debate that I had with the Prime Minister about the housing crisis that he himself strikingly illustrated what is wrong with this cabinet. The Prime Minister indicated that the four parties were figuratively placing ideology in a corner when the subject of "dwelling" was discussed during the negotiations. Because then you can negotiate so nicely with each other. You see what you get: the recognition that there is a housing crisis, but no real solutions to fundamentally do something about it. However, social housing sells, but reduces the rent surcharge and introduces rent increases for middle incomes, but does not restrict the space for investors and speculators. This is done through the entire coalition agreement: the elderly are in the dark, partly because the AOW is decoupled from the minimum wage. Instead of maintaining this link, technical patchwork is being devised to mitigate the consequences, while that link is the foundation of our welfare state and guarantees that workers, pensioners and people with benefits share equally in welfare growth. The new cabinet recognises that there are major problems in the care of young people and in the care of the elderly, but chooses to solve them with a cut of hundreds of millions, rather than with the investment needed. The growing wealth inequality in our country feeds social discontent, but the cabinet does not choose to introduce a fair and social tax system, but to spend money as water and to spare large capacities and polluters. The bill is passed on to future generations. If you look at it that way, you're looking for more ideology instead of less, for fundamental choices rather than lap agents. Where are we on the new governance culture? It was not even 11 a.m. this morning, when the Prime Minister said that there would be no changes in the coalition agreement. In this respect, it is no different from previous Cabinets. The Prime Minister and his coalition partners determine the framework and the Chamber may then co-operate on the implementation of his wishes. I'd like to warn you about that, because we know how it goes. If some adjustments are to be requested from the Chamber, it is said: difficult, difficult, sympathetic proposal, but difficult; it does not fit in with the financial framework, it is not in line with the government agreement. That is why I am so keen on it that we should not change things later, but now. It must be done today, because as a Chamber, we must not only co-operate on implementation and on the details, but also on the core, on the basis of the policy. As a Chamber, let us respond to what is necessary and make the adjustments. I would therefore like to call on my colleagues in the Chamber: let us set an example. Let us take note of the call for a new governance culture. Let us not vote along the lines of opposition and coalition, but along the lines of what is needed for the Netherlands. Today we can change the framework of the coalition agreement, and it will be too late. Hence my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the link between the minimum wage and the AOW is abandoned in the coalition agreement;]] [[believes that pensioners should also improve purchasing power in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government to increase the AOW as much as the planned increase in the minimum wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a solution to the housing crisis calls for greater protection and security for tenants;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from cutting the rent allowance, the rent increase for middle income and the sale of social housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ploumen, Mr Klaver, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Dassen, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-130]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u264	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that taxes on income have increased steadily in recent years and that taxes on capital have fallen steadily;]] [[noting that the burden on capital and profits resulting from the coalition agreement is decreasing by EUR 100 million;]] [[calls on the government to put forward proposals for a fairer tax system prior to the debate on the Start note, in which assets are taxed more heavily so that taxes on employment and income can be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u265	Mr. Chairman. I told you, power inequality is the seeds of unease and displeasure. It is a matter of decency and morality to do something about it, in the interests of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u266	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I shall then give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In his reply in the first term, the Prime Minister referred to my comparison, the mirror of the spirit of time with the Purple I cabinet. He tried to indicate that he was not entirely in agreement with my Christian Democratic analysis. But then he gave an example of how the changing spirit of time also took place within his own party. The VVD's plea for a small government, which lasted much longer than until 1994, has now been replaced by the VVD's plea for a strong government. The Prime Minister even succeeded in naming in the reply some of the texts contained in the coalition agreement, based on that cooperative strong society. So there too, hope lives. We will also keep the cabinet and the Prime Minister sharp on this. As I pointed out yesterday: this time is asking for hope, solidarity and solidarity, for less 'I' and more 'we'. In order to be able to look to the future with confidence, we must look to each other. That is why I referred yesterday to the Atlas of Abandoned Netherlands. Mr Segers already indicated in his term that we had been inspired by the same passages, so there was some overlap. Now I would like to give the authors of this atlas 'cause it's a really good piece of work. At the same time, however, I think that we should strive for this and the cabinet should see this as an assignment to make this atlas a one-off edition. We will have to make sure that the Netherlands can join, come along and feel represented. That is why I also welcome the fact that, in the debate on the declaration of government, the Prime Minister referred to Marga Klompé, whose motto was: in a society, every person counts. It laid a solid foundation for solidarity in this country with its Welfare Act. It's nice that that was referred to. But I cannot ignore the fact that the start of the debate yesterday was once again very ugly. I believe that the Prime Minister has spoken true words about this this morning. Everyone in this house is free to engage in the debate. That can be done on the substance, but with respect for someone else. The fact is that the line is not always easy to draw. Opinions and views can hurt and the truth can be harsh. At the same time, as parliamentarians, we have a heavy task here and a very great responsibility to take when it comes to the mirror that we are to society. There are also children at school looking at what we are calling for in our debates. That goes far beyond yesterday's debate. If you look at how in recent weeks debates against political opponents have been threatened with tribunals, then we are at the point where Ernst Hirsch Ballin has said that some words already cross a line before they are ever put into practice. Revenge can never become an end in itself. The free debate must not be an alibi for hatred, as Bas Heijne wrote. Then to the content of the debate and the response of the Prime Minister. I think it is a good thing that the Prime Minister has also indicated on behalf of the cabinet that 92% of public debt is not acceptable and that the cabinet will not allow this to happen. And Mr Segers will also be tabling a motion on this in the near future, and that plans that come to the Chamber can be properly controlled, including by Parliament, because that is our job. When it comes to youth care, I would like to congratulate Mr Klaver on the enthusiasm he has shown in the discussion. I would also like to point out that, if you have seen the contribution of my colleague Peters in recent years, my party is really convinced that not only is there too much money being spent in youth care, but that it also means that there is no money available and no attention is paid to the serious cases. An outstretched hand doesn't always mean we're gonna do it now. I believe that the whole coalition has indicated that it is perhaps another metaphor that the door is ajar and that Mr Klaver's words are being listened to. At a time when we are convinced that it is possible, that there can be more savings and that you can do more to youth care companies where too much profit is made and where care is provided that is not really necessary, the burden of proof lies here. Moreover, Mr Peters, whom I have just referred to, together with Mr Van der Staaij tabled a motion in December which was widely supported in the House of Representatives, which says that the answer to a problem can sometimes be nothing. Money doesn't have to be found for every problem in youth care. So if we have that conviction and we agree with each other and the cabinet starts talking to the municipalities, then here is the burden of proof. The burden of proof that it can be done is right here. We need to continue talking about this. Not going along with what Mr Klaver says now does not mean closing eyes to this discussion and recognizing that the burden of proof lies on the side of the cabinet. Then the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u268	Before proceeding, Mr Klaver would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u269	In my view, the burden of proof always lies with the cabinet when it indicates that there is a need to cut back or to step up at some point. My concern in the youth care sector is that municipalities are responsible for this, that there are elections in March and that the timetable of municipalities is different from ours in The Hague. This means that new college agreements will be concluded in March and that this cut will be taken into account, without any substantive plan, the burden of proof, of the cabinet. My specific question is: do you really say that there must be a substantive plan for the municipal elections in March?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u270	I think that Mr Klaver is right to raise a point of concern. Moreover, it is also because of the budgetary system of municipalities that it is not necessarily March that there should be rapid discussion about what they can do in order to avoid unnecessary care. I think that is sensible, and that is what is happening in many municipalities. I think it is important that, in the short term, the discussion between the cabinet and the municipalities should take place and the cabinet in the coalition agreement indicates how this can be done, with what legislation and so on. That conversation doesn't end here or now. Mrs Ploumen just indicated: if it isn't now, it can't be anymore. No, the door is open and the recognition is that the burden of proof lies with the cabinet. And I recognise that the budgetary system with which municipalities work cannot push it far forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u271	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u272	Finally. I am glad that you indicate that there is talk about this and that you see the problems that lie ahead. But just a little bit sharper: in general municipalities, negotiations are not as long as ten months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u273	This is also different from one municipality to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u274	Sure. But I'm talking about most of the municipalities. I do think they should know very clearly in advance what they are going to negotiate and what choices to make. That starts the day after the municipal elections. I hear you say, and I'm not going to put words in your mouth, that it really matters...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u275	But you're gonna do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u276	No, I'm gonna try to draw the conclusion as sharply as possible. It shouldn't be a word game, but it should help us. The cabinet must come up with plans before the municipal elections have taken place. Then it must be sharp; then they must have proven what is going to happen. If that is not the case, it is on the board of the municipalities and your plan that the burden of proof lies with box K has come to nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u277	In any case, I think there should be more clarity. I don't know if it's possible that in March you could have totally exquisite plans. I don't know if that's possible; I can't promise that here. But these are not empty words when I say that the burden of proof lies on the side of the cabinet here in The Hague. I think there's another debate next week about municipalities. This concludes this discussion and also the pressure you can put from the Chamber towards the cabinet. So give that clarity, so that this open conversation with municipalities can be held. This debate will continue next week. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply in this case in Groningen, for recognizing the false start and for his personal commitment to doing so with the Germans. That is not customary, because it is customary for the Minister of Trade to do it. But I am very glad that the Prime Minister sees how important it is to show this to the Groningen people and to make an effort to achieve a result. Then there is another issue we discussed yesterday: the purchasing power of pensioners. That has been a long debate. I also spoke to Mrs Ploumen yesterday about this. And this also applies: I do not agree with Mrs Ploumen that this is the only time and that there is no outstretched hand if nothing happens now. For here too, it has been widely said by the coalition, and yesterday by myself, that the coalition agreement has agreed on a balanced purchasing power picture and an average positive purchasing power picture for all income groups. Mrs Hermans has already said that the possibilities are being looked at openly. I myself indicated that we should look at increasing the AOW, the IO-AOW and the elderly discount. The Prime Minister has indicated his willingness to do so. Mr President, perhaps Mrs Ploumen could give me the opportunity to put forward a motion on this first, which is in line with what I said yesterday. After that, I will be happy to enter into the debate with her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement agreed to seek a balanced and average positive purchasing power picture for all income groups;]] [[noting that the purchasing power picture is less positive than expected in December due to higher inflation forecasts, with pensioners in particular at risk of falling behind in purchasing power development;]] [[calls on the government to draw up proposals in the spring decision-making process on how to improve purchasing power for groups at risk of decline, in particular for older people, taking into account at least the elderly discount, the IO-AOW and the AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Hermans, Mr Paternotte and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u278	Thank you to Mr Heerma. Let me touch on the decoupling that this cabinet of the AOW advocates of the proposed increase in the minimum wage. I hear Mr Heerma talking about purchasing power repairs and in the motion he also indicates a number of options for this. I'd still like to call him to... Look, if he doesn't break that decoupling, then it doesn't have to be repaired. That seems to me to be the easiest way forward. I'll give him that consideration again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u279	I am going to repeat it: the structural link between wages and the AOW is maintained. The AOW is simply indexed twice a year and increases with wages. Only for the specific raising of the bottom of the wage building does not happen in the coalition agreement. Among other things, through the elderly discount, there are alternatives to allow older people to benefit from it. I acknowledge, like several other parties here, that there are problems, because this old-age discount is partly non-cashable, perhaps not because of the group that needs it most. That is why the motion also speaks very clearly about alternatives. They have been exchanged here in the debate and a door has been opened for that, with the increase of the AOW explicitly included in the motion as one of the options to be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u280	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u281	Finally. Thanks again to Mr Heerma for this explanation. But I'll repeat my call anyway. If you don't break that clutch, if you don't break it, you don't have to fix it. That seems to me to be the easiest route. Once again, I do not think Mr Heerma and I agree, but at least we have exchanged the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u282	Thank you. Not really a question was asked, but I think yesterday I also explained the considerations for that particular measure. I am going to repeat it again, also because the suggestion in the debate was sometimes raised that there would be a structural decoupling. By the way, Mrs Ploumen didn't do that. That's out of the question! There is a measure aimed at I believe 8% or 9% of the people who deserve the minimum wage. For that group, we want to raise it. And yes, the door is open to looking at all alternative measures to repair the poor purchasing power figures from the CPB estimate. That is why, on behalf of all the coalition groups, I submit this motion to the cabinet. In addition to the old people's discount, where there are disadvantages, it also mentions the IO-AOW, which I think applies to all or almost all AOW's. At least it's in there as an option. I also hear the reaction of Mrs Ploumen, who says: I would have preferred something else, but I also see that the door to the conversation and a follow-up is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u283	The link that as the minimum wage rises the AOW also rises, we know since the 1980s. Of course, that's for a reason. It is a question of civilisation, but it is also the crown of organised solidarity. Mr. Heerma must recognize that if that is to be released now, even if it is a one-time thing, it can at least set a precedent towards the future and that it can obviously do so. There's a reason it's enshrined in a law. It wasn't for nothing in the 1980s. What does Mr Heerma think of this precedent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u284	The structural link between the AOW and the increase in wages is not abandoned. There is no precedent for this either. This is a specific measure that hits the bottom of the wage building, which benefits 9% of the workers, which lays the ground for the labour market and ensures a fairer labour market. It has been chosen not to increase 3.5 million older people, including those with a very large supplementary pension. Moreover, the AOW remains above the minimum standard of living, even after this 7.5%. This has to do with the reference minimum wage, which does not apply to assistance. Another way of compensating the elderly has been chosen. Given the poor purchasing power figures and given the debate, the door is open here to look at that again and perhaps to come out on the rise of the AOW or possibly the IO-AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u285	Did this specific measure to decouple the AOW from an increase in the minimum wage actually come from the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u286	I cannot deny that, as in the case of the Gijs van Dijk and Senna Maatoug bill, we did not have the link with the AOW in our account for this particular measure. This also applies to a number of opposition parties. That was also true for the VVD. That was true for GroenLinks. There were also parties that did couple, but the AOW fiscalized, which is another way, which potentially takes away a lot more money. We talked at the table about raising the minimum wage. Then you're gonna see how you deal with that. Together, we have chosen to find another way to compensate the elderly, and that is through the elderly discount. That deal's been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u287	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u288	Because it has rightly been such a heavy item in this whole debate, the question is whose proposal it has come up on. Is that something to say? Who came up with the idea: boys, this is gonna be too expensive; we have to exclude the AOW, because that's gonna cost money and we don't have it? Did that come from the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u289	I don't know who. I do not think that I should say here at all who made what proposal. You can dissect that, but I don't know who did this. In my view, there was a fairly rapid consensus that the minimum wage should be increased and that another way should be chosen to compensate for the large group of older people, who are far from all at the bottom. At the same time, it was agreed that there should be a balanced and on average positive purchasing power picture. There is no question of that now, and we are going to fix it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u290	Continue... Ah, you've completed. Thank you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u291	Sorry, I'm gonna finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u292	That's a final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u293	That's a final word. I forgot that yesterday in my first term, while others did have the courtesy. Of course, the cabinet also deserves congratulations and congratulations. I believe that Mr Paternotte said that the period of work is now over to get off to a good start. The challenges ahead are very great. But if we succeed, we can at the same time maintain solidarity and solidarity, and we can live up to all these ambitions. The cabinet can count on us, in our role as a Lower House and as a Second Chamber of the CDA, to monitor it strictly but fairly, but also that, as I said yesterday, we will continue to say 'yes' but not 'amen' and therefore also with our own plans, our own visions and our own ideology, also on housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u294	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u295	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply and his colleagues for their patience. I hope he's just been able to read in the brief suspension. I am very curious to hear his comments on this later. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I said everything must change, so that everything remains the same. Was this a bad debate or did I not see the coalition colleagues trying to be open? No, that's not true. I have really seen that you have tried to weigh up the arguments and to face the debate with a little more openness than usual. Only, the expectations were high, because it was announced with a lot of drum roll that we would all do it differently. In that context, I am not dissatisfied. The discussion continues on youth care, but it is also a pity that we have not been able to agree. I have tried to say that I also think that the system of youth care is not good. Too many people are being helped who should not be in it, who need a different type of help, and the young people we need to reach are not being reached. But you shouldn't start with the cuts. That's all I've brought forward. I think you should talk about the content, and that's why you shouldn't put such a mission there. That's old-fashioned thinking. That's what we used to do: book a mission and start thinking from there. And why is that old-fashioned? We should have learned. Because we have the Participation Act, the Wmo. Was the idea of decentralisation bad? Was that a bad idea? Well, there was actually a pretty good thought behind it. But all these transitions have been accompanied by major cuts. That's where it went wrong. For example, in Denmark and other Scandinavian countries, where they did similar things, things went better, because they first intensified, or at least didn't cut back. Hence my call. I will be tabling a motion on this later. That's why I think it's really, really a shame and a missed chance that we don't say: okay, let's delete it. We are not saying that there should not be any cuts, but we are going to talk about the content first and then about the money. I'm also glad the coalition says we're going to talk about purchasing power. Good. But it's not really new, of course. I mean, every year a cabinet looks at the purchasing power cards again. You agree where you are heading and if it turns out that the circumstances are different from those of higher inflation, better economic growth, positive figures, you adjust them. The only thing that is really new is that the coalition should bring that up in the debate on the government statement, and that they should do it themselves. But that's actually what we've been doing all these years. The fundamental debate we have to have is about something much bigger. Because, yes, it is really right that we look at the, I believe, 160 standard households, but let's not stare blindly at those purchasing power cards. In the end, these are all averages that all don't say so much about reality. If we are all going to work on this with a great deal of political wrangling, then a few euros will be added to people; euros that can make a difference. I do not want to underestimate it in any way: euros that can make a difference whether people make it to the end of the month or not. But it's not the big discussion. The big discussion we had here for a moment with the Prime Minister, about wealth inequality. That's where the really big difference is and what we need to do. I found it quite shocking that the Prime Minister pretended that we didn't know anything about it, as if that had never really been a discussion, as if not a lot of policy reports had been written about it. They're all there, and we have to act on it. That is why Mr Ploumen has tabled a motion to that effect. Capital must be taxed more heavily in this country, so that people who earn income from work pay less tax on it. If you're working in care now and you're going to work a little more hours in the corona time because you want to help your colleagues, you can go backwards because you're losing bonuses. The marginal pressure there is far too high, much higher than with someone who owns two, three houses and rents them out. That really has to change, and it won't. It's a good thing we're talking about purchasing power repair, but the big discussion is that. Mr. Chairman. Then the concept of broad prosperity. All the opinions of the Study Group on Budget Space have been taken on board, except for the advice to steer towards broad prosperity. I find that problematic. Because I am not only critical of a 500 million cut in youth care, I am also very critical of the billions that are mentioned, for example in education, without very clear targets being defined, because the danger is that the money is not being spent properly. We have seen this very often, especially in the field of education, in recent years. A lot of money has gone there, and not always with the effect we had intended. A lot of money has been invested in the shortage of teachers, and that has only grown in recent years. That is why I would really like to urge these top officials to take over this advice and also to focus on broad prosperity. That's why I have two motions. The first one is about youth care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the problems of youth care have been high for years, children have been on waiting lists for a long time in sometimes life-threatening situations and the corona crisis has also increased these problems;]] [[Considering that, at the request of the government, an arbitration committee had been set up to decide on the shortage of money in youth care and on the reforms needed to ensure that youth care is mainly targeted at young people who need it most;]] [[Considering that the Rutte III cabinet has implemented this ruling for 2022, but that the Rutte IV cabinet intends to make a 500 million cut, for example by shortening the treatment periods or requesting its own contribution;]] [[calls on the Government to act in accordance with the ruling of the Arbitration Committee, to remove the announced 500 million cuts and to continue the discussions on the necessary reforms in the youth system as soon as possible without the threat of this austerity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Simons, Mr Dassen, Mr Den Haan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u296	The second motion I would like to table is shorter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the CPB, the PBL, the SCP and the Council of State advise to give broad prosperity a central role in the budgetary decision-making of the Cabinet;]] [[noting that for the time being the Cabinet has not chosen to adopt the opinion on broad prosperity from the Budget Space Study Group;]] [[Calls on the Government to adopt the opinion of the Study Group on Budgetary Space on broad prosperity and to communicate clearly from this spring on the broad objectives of prosperity it is pursuing;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the CPB, the PBL and the SCP to monitor annually to what extent these broad welfare objectives are met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u297	I want to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u298	Fine. Thank you, too. This is kind of nice, isn't it? Mr Segers, Christian Union. Mr. Clover? You already thanked me!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u299	Yes, but thank you again for giving me the floor again. The motion for a resolution on child care also contains the name of Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u300	We'll add that. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u301	Madam President. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answers and the rulers for their patience to sit here these two days. I hope that this is the beginning of good consultation, good debates, openness over and over again and healthy dualism. The start was heavy, even today. Mr Heerma said that it might be easy for school classes to look at such a debate. What do they see? Yesterday our group actually received an e-mail from a school class that was indeed watching. After five minutes they turned off the TV, because the debate was such a bad example. In this sense, it is also a reflection of what is going on in society. There is a form of polarisation that sometimes leads to radicalisation, extremism and threat. That's very worrying. I hope that spirit goes back into the bottle and that we will be the land that we are deepest. That is a country of minorities who always consult well and do so peacefully. In view of that, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NCTV reports on radicalisation, that the SCP talks about the decline of confidence and the report "The Atlas of Aborting The Netherlands" states that it is important to better understand what is needed to reduce extremism, radicalisation and polarisation along new social divisions;]] [[calls on the Government to have a wide-ranging committee examine the development of radicalisation and political polarisation and to analyse its impact on the democratic process on the basis of scientific insights;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Commission to make recommendations on how to better deter our democracy from extremism, radicalisation and polarisation and on what is currently contributing to the strengthening of the democratic rule of law, both from the perspective of democratic institutions as well as from citizens and civil society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Hermans, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dassen, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u302	I have a question about this. I support the idea of putting the Netherlands out of business. I think that's the thrust of the assignment behind that atlas. What we need to be careful about is that, with such a committee of inquiry, we are achieving the opposite, namely that they have dropped out even further and that they are declared out of order. That's what JA21 is really stuffy about. Of course, we don't want that. That's the opposite of what we want. So how do we prevent that committee from operating differently enough and a bit one-handedly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u303	That's a good point. That's why it says: a large-scale committee. That is up to the cabinet, but it will have to be put together widely. You must distinguish between a legitimate and healthy political battle on the content that Mr Marijnissen passionately pleaded for, and polarisation and radicalisation. Expressions in politics can also lead to someone with a torch standing at the front door. There's a line. We all feel when people really cross borders in their expressions and the democratic rule of law and our freedom and security are at stake. This can also come from radical Islam, from jihadism. That could be from all sides. We need to know what is going on and, above all, what we can do about it, but we should not have the effect of pushing away the people who have already left. As far as I'm concerned, that concern needs to be addressed. Madam President. As far as I am concerned, it was a good debate when it was about content, even when the differences were getting worse. We talked about purchasing power. What did we want to do there and what are we doing there? People who really aren't getting around right now and who, as it's called, are sitting at the bottom of the payroll building and can't make ends meet, we want to lift up and offer more perspective. There's gonna be a discussion about the AOW. That subject is still in the middle here. Mr Heerma has also tabled his motion on our behalf. We're gonna continue that conversation. The same applies to youth care. In fact, I found Mr Klaver's analysis, he has run away for a while, I see that he is quite adequate. Care is provided that you can ask yourself is genuine youth care, and there are young people who simply need good care but are on a waiting list. That can't exist, so we have to get to work on the content. We also need to see how that is financially feasible. In this respect, too, I agree with Mr Heerma that the burden of proof lies with the cabinet when it says that it can be done with less money. But the content and the reform agenda are leading, and it's about caring for those vulnerable children. Madam President. As far as the Netherlands is concerned, I have also asked for special attention for Groningen. I thank the Prime Minister for what he said about it. I also wish Secretary of State Vile letter wisdom and strength in his important task. Wherever we can close the queues in that respect and regain confidence together, I would very much like to contribute. Then there is my second and final motion, Madam President. It's about the supervision of the funds. This was criticised by the General Court. Colleagues have also expressed concerns about this. Mr Hermans and I have also asked for this in the event of interruption. It is important to protect the Court's budgetary right and to ensure its parliamentary supervision. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement on climate and nitrogen establishes two new budgetary funds and informs the Chamber of the further impact of spring paper 2022;]] [[Whereas the Council of State and the General Court of Auditors stress the need for proper design and governance of these funds and the implementation of parliamentary budgetary law;]] [[Whereas, according to the coalition agreement, the setting-up of the two funds will focus on ensuring efficiency and robust parliamentary control and sets an example to the existing Delta Fund and the Mobility Fund;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly involve the Chamber in the design of the Climate and Transition Fund and the nitrogen Fund, to respect its budget rights, and to submit to the Chamber, in anticipation of the institutional laws, a test of both fund budgets on Princess Day 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Hermans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u304	Finally, Madam President. My cultural knowledge is now enriched with Rowwen Heze, and a song that indeed looks back and says: sometimes it is better to lose something beautiful; lose better than you never had it. Well, what did I lose? That was a kind of partial agreement between the groups of CDA and VVD. How beautiful that was, everyone can now completely judge themselves, because it was in total transparency on the train. I imagine the Prime Minister liked that very much, but it's something I'm leaving behind. I put it behind me, too. But I would also like to present him with another text, from a band that I know a bit better than Rowwen Hèze, namely U2. I appreciate the music very much, but I am very happy that their letterbox construction on the Herengracht has turned its neck. Let them focus on beautiful songs and not on tax constructions. Bono's looking ahead. He also lost something, but he looks forward: I believe in the kingdom come, then all the colours willbleed into one, but I still haven't found what I'm looking for. I lost a partial agreement and signed a coalition agreement, but that's still paper. We need to get to work on it now. There's a lot to hope for and there's a lot to work for. I wish the Cabinet and all of us a great deal of success and a great deal of wisdom and also the blessing of God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u305	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u306	Thank you, Mr President. I'm almost tempted to quote my favorite musicians, but I don't think I'm doing a lot of people a favor with that! So I'm keeping it to myself. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister and to all the supporters for the answer. We have been promised change, and that sounds nice when we are in the middle of a crisis, or in crises, I have to say, because then it can only get better. That would be nice, but the Party for Animals still has care. Of course, we've heard nice words before. There are all beautiful notes and there is recognition of the value of biodiversity, of nature and of climate. But then it ended, because apparently there are other forces more important. That is where our great concern lies with the plans that lie ahead. I'll start with the climate problems. The VVD and the CDA have not exactly radiated that they recognize that keeping global warming within the limits is simply also very liberal and therefore belongs to their own ideas, and that that is something you do when you have stewardship first. So what has the Netherlands heard for years? That's that climate plans are actually just a bit of a hobby of climate crazies. That was never taken seriously. And if you're pulling 35 billion now, I understand that Dutch people think: yes, but why? At the last climate summit in Glasgow, Mr Rutte said to young people: we cannot be more ambitious than we are now, because then people will vote far right. You're not getting away with that. You wanted to be the leader and the longest-serving Prime Minister in the history of the Netherlands. Then you're gonna have to stand up for those plans no matter how far you're gonna go. And those plans are also just liberal. It's about the future of our children and grandchildren. No one in the Netherlands wants them to have it worse than us. This also applies to voters of the PVV and Forum. You can just carry that out. You can simply proclaim that it is very liberal to guard the freedoms we have fought so hard for for our children and grandchildren. The German judge has literally warned: the freedoms of future generations are incredibly under pressure if we do not apply that transition now. It fits in all ways with liberal thought and stewardship. It's true: VVD and CDA have to come a long way, because they've always ridiculed climate and nature protection. But you can't come up with: we can't be more ambitious than this, because then people go to parties that don't need to have anything of climate. There's a very important assignment here. I would therefore like the Prime Minister to take it seriously. We need to bring the economy within the capacity of the earth, work for a society in which everyone is equal and make commercial interests subordinate to the most essential interests of man: our health, the health of our loved ones, our freedoms and the future of our children. Mr. Chairman. We have a number of proposals to translate the fine words into concrete policy. One of the questions I have to the Prime Minister is about the following. Leiden scientists have once again shown that we have double climate gains if we switch to a plant-based diet, and that doesn't cost anything at all. During the previous cabinet period, the Minister of Education was prepared to make vegetable food the norm. If you want to eat meat with all the violence, you can, but you have to ask for it. I think that's a nice step. You don't have to do anything else: you don't have to tax people, you don't have to tax companies and you can enter this yourself. It is a nice step, in which the Prime Minister shows that he is prepared to change. We always say: if you are not even willing to change what you take for lunch, then perhaps your willingness to change is not so great. So it's a nice test. Then we also have a motion for a government policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Leiden University scientists conclude that switching to a mainly vegetable food pattern results in double climate gains;]] [[Whereas the Plant Based Treaty is an international initiative to plant our food system in the base so that the climate crisis, the biodiversity crisis and the threat of new pandemics are addressed in a coherent manner;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to be an international leader in tackling the climate crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to sign the Plant Based Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u307	Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, we read that there will be a scientific advisory board for the climate, which assesses policy and advises the cabinet. Now the most important climate scientist in the Netherlands, Heleen de Coninck, has already assessed the policy and he says: we miss the system transitions. We therefore have a number of proposals to implement these system transitions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the PBL warns that a significant part of the announced climate action measures are voluntary and therefore there is a high risk that climate ambitions will not be met;]] [[calls on the government to introduce a climate obligation for major polluters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the achievement of climate objectives should not be hampered by conflicting policies;]] [[Considering that the recent German coalition agreement includes a climate test which will explain in all new legislative proposals how the bill in question meets the national climate objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a climate test,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-139]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u308	Mr. Chairman. I see I'm starting to walk through my time. I had saved a few minutes in the first term. Do you think I could use it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u309	Now, if you'll just file the motions. I'll take a look at the colleagues. Yes. You had one more motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u310	I've got more, but I'll scrape one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u311	Do one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u312	We have a motion for culture, but we'll do it tomorrow at the corona debate. I'm gonna have to file this motion, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate policy is only effective if it is implemented in conjunction with other policy areas;]] [[Whereas, as in the field of public finances, objectives of individual ministers may conflict with the achievement of climate objectives;]] [[Whereas the Council of State recommends that a climate minister should be given a coordinating and directing role and should be able to take part in deciding on expenditure and legislation from other ministries influencing climate policy;]] [[calls on the Government to give the Minister for Climate and Energy the opportunity to veto government measures that are contrary to climate objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u313	Mr. Chairman. My last one. The last one. Let's avoid another pandemic. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the expert group on zoonoses concludes that the Netherlands, with its large intensive livestock farming, is a potential hotspot for animal diseases that can spread to humans and has made a large number of recommendations to reduce the risk of new zoonoses;]] [[calls on the Government, pending the policy agenda, to take immediate precautions to protect public health, such as the failure to complete stables following outbreaks of avian influenza, the establishment of a moratorium on the construction or expansion of stables and the management of international trade in live animals and hatching eggs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u314	Thank you so much for the coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u315	I'm going to give Mrs. Ouwehand some extra time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u316	Great. I was hoping you would.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u317	Of course, that last motion will trigger me. I'm not going to compare livestock farming with hospitals, but it's kind of weird to say that there's been a disease somewhere, and then there's nothing left in it. In hospitals, for example, there are sick people lying around every day. You'd say there's nothing left in there. If people had been sick in companies, they wouldn't be allowed in anymore. It's kind of a weird motion, though. Poultry farmers, farmers, entrepreneurs. If there's been an animal disease, the whole stable will be cleaned up again. Everything's all spic and span again. If animals have to be disposed of, the entrepreneur, apart from the animal suffering, has already done an enormous amount of damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u318	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u319	I'd just like to understand the motion. Mrs Ouwehand then says that there is no more in there either. So you really want to deprive the entrepreneur of the right to undertake business?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u320	Mrs. Van der Plas said she wasn't going to make a comparison with hospitals and then she was going to do it a little bit. I don't think you can compare the way we deal with animals with the way we deal with people. If there's an infection in humans, we don't all get gassed. That's what happens in poultry farming, even when there's a company nearby. There are 177,000 animals in one stable. They're gassed. That is the policy to prevent the disease from spreading further. That policy fails, because every time there are new outbreaks. The case requires that, at the request of the Chamber and the Cabinet, virologists have written an opinion on what we need to do to protect public health from the spread of these diseases to humans. Those recommendations are that we need to reduce the number of animals significantly and stop keeping animals in areas where there is a high risk of infection. In the meantime, it's crazy to fill those stables over and over again. I propose this to protect public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u321	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u322	Well, rounding it up? In conclusion! Those stables aren't filled because that farmer thinks "well, I love having chickens," but because people want to eat eggs, meat and dairy, when we talk about cows. That's why this is happening. He's an entrepreneur and he produces something people ask. You can't like the word "production," but that's the way it is. What the Party for Animals really wants is that there is no more livestock farming in the Netherlands. These are those steps. I would then think as a Party for the Animals: I simply submit a motion every time in which I ask for a ban on meat, eggs and dairy consumption. Because then you will be open and transparent and then you will also show your constituents what is really meant to be. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u323	Actually, I find it a little disgusting. For two years, we have had a pandemic that is the result of a zoonoses, which is an infectious disease that has been skipped from animal to man, which affects the whole of the Netherlands, the whole world. Now that the virus is already there, all those virologists have advised us how to deal with it and what measures to take. Everyone is extremely limited in their room of movement. The same virologists say that this will happen more often if we continue to deal with animals in this way, if we do not protect nature and if we do not tackle climate change. Why would you want to ignore that signal and that warning? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u324	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u325	For the Animal Party, public health is much more important than the commercial interests of any sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u326	Thank you very much. That's the risk if you allow an additional motion to be filed. You can see the effect of that. I call Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have confidence to restore and the great transitions we have to go through will have to dress up justly. I am glad that extra attention has been paid to this in the debate today and yesterday. But there is also a great deal of uncertainty about the agreement. I cannot stress enough that there is a great deal of urgency to ensure that the agreement is put to work. For example, the Planning Office for the Environment indicated that it could only have done a reflection, because there is no link between the plans yet. That is why, together with Mrs Ouwehand, I supported the climate test motion. I look forward to the planning that will be presented to the Chamber within three weeks. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what exactly we can expect from that planning. Is that a planning so we can be clear when the plans are being worked out? Or is it a planning of when the plans are being implemented? I welcome the commitment on the generation test and any other motions I have supported. I have one more concern about the big pots of money and access to decision-making on those funds. It needs to be more transparent in my view and hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Van Gerven/Oosenburg motion already adopted in 2016 concerning a legal lobby paragraph has never been legally binding and is not actively implemented;]] [[Whereas, through the Dassen motion, the Chamber called on the Cabinet to establish a mandatory lobby register;]] [[Whereas a lobby register and a lobby section will contribute to increasing transparency in the legislative process;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to implement the above-mentioned Dassen motion as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the Van Gerven/Oosenburg motion adopted and to add a lobby paragraph to legislative proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u328	Mr. Chairman. We face major challenges. Efforts to find a solution will have to be equal. Then we'll restore that trust. I hope that the cabinet will not remain with the 77 members of the coalition, but will also work with the ideas of the other Members of Parliament. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for today's answers and wish him every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u329	Thank you, Mr. Dassen. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mr Rutte for the answers. I have appreciated the presence of the remaining three rulers, and I take your Presidency with me. Thank you for the last few days. One question stuck, Mr. Rutte. That is the important question for me about the victims of crime. I had actually expected a directional statement on this and hoped for a commitment that you could come back to that. It concerns the question of compensation and the protection of privacy of victims of "ordinary" crime. In the debate at the beginning, Mr Wilders' comment on Mrs Sahla went wrong. That was a drawing moment. I have difficulty with the way in which the Chamber reacted to this. I would like to say that I understand that Mr Wilders is frightened as someone who has been a member of the Hofstad group and who has been a very serious threat to him and who is a member of the VVD and can therefore also be part of our work here. I get that scare. I would also like to say that someone can change their lives drastically. That's what we saw with Jason Walters, also member of the Hofstad group. He's about to do the opposite of what he did. It's possible. But why has Mr Wilders not been informed of this at all? I have difficulty with the way things are going and I understand Mr Wilders' fear very well. That's what I wanted to say. Then there's something completely different: the AOW decoupling. We believe that the link between the AOW and the increase in the minimum wage should be restored. In it we will go hand in hand as comrades with the PvdA and Mr. Klaver may walk in between. I hope that Mrs Ploumen and I will also hold each other in the First Chamber, and so will Mr Klaver. I think we can do that. We love each other in this respect. That is an example that I would like to cite in the first motion I have tabled, namely how to deal with political opponents, competition or parties that are not directly involved in each other's affairs: to give each other a hand. It's a widely signed motion I'd like to file. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Prime Minister indicated that relations between coalition and opposition and between cabinet and chamber were of great importance;]] [[Whereas it is important for the government to be open to good opposition proposals;]] [[Considering that Rutte IV is based on a narrow majority in the Lower House and that that majority is even lacking in the Upper Chamber and that support for this cabinet in society is currently extremely low;]] [[calls on the government to reach out to opposition ideas, both content and budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Eerdmans, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Dassen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Den Haan, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen, Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u331	That motion's gonna make it. We were satisfied with the Prime Minister's answers, but certainly not on one point. That was the point about the government's compulsion towards municipalities that stubbornly say that they do not want to accept asylum seekers. I asked him about the base. He said: we are going to craft something to force these municipalities to accept asylum seekers. For many reasons, we consider this to be very wrong. That's why the next motion has been prepared. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in December the government gave a "instruction" to municipalities to force them to receive asylum seekers, but that this was not a legal basis;]] [[noting that the Government intends to create a legal basis for such guidance in the future;]] [[Whereas municipalities should not be forced to receive asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the government not to force municipalities to receive asylum seekers and not to create a legal basis for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u332	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u333	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, first of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Thanks also to the other cabinet members for their presence, although compared to previous debates on government declarations, it was of course special to find a select group on behalf of the cabinet here. We naturally look forward to meeting the other leaders in the debates as well. There are many tasks in this cabinet. In substance, we have talked about many issues, but I would also like to stress once again the task of giving confidence to the cut-off. Reclaiming the confidence that has been lost by many may be a much greater challenge than the more technical task in a number of policy areas. Mr. Chairman. In this second period, I should like to confine myself to tabling two motions for resolutions on subjects which we discussed in the debate. This relates primarily to the role of society and also to supporting the citizens' own responsibility, because we should not expect everything from a government in the task. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas values, such as community spirit, solidarity, trust and respect for one another, are essential for a good society, and this includes citizens' own responsibility, such as providing care to vulnerable people;]] [[Whereas the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau recommends that different forms of social participation be included in the development of labour market reforms, since paid employment is not the only way to participate in society, and that therefore accompanying policies are needed in the areas of care, education and the labour market, for example;]] [[calls on the Government to give greater and more detailed consideration to the above considerations in the preparation of the Cabinet Plans and to make concrete policy proposals to strengthen the position of carers, families and volunteers, and to inform the Chamber about this before Princess Day 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij and Pieter Heerma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u335	My second motion concerns financial policy. That has also been discussed in detail. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the coalition agreement not only pays out money for the current cabinet period, but also for the period thereafter, in particular by the desire to set up funds that are largely budgeted for the period after 2025, and that the coalition agreement thereby has a medium-term impact on finances;]] [[having noted that the Council of State has issued an opinion on the Start note in the context of independent budgetary surveillance with recommendations in budgetary policy, containing several proposals;]] [[Whereas budgetary anchors are necessary to conduct financially sound and sustainable policies;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify, by the spring paper 2022 at the latest, which medium-term anchors will be steered, giving an insight into the way in which steering will be designed to achieve these anchors both in the short, medium and long term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply, my fellow Members for the exchange of arguments and for chairing you. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the Prime Minister indicated this morning that people with a double passport are a full and integral part of our society and that this is no problem for any position in our country. It is also good to see that Prime Minister Rutte has shown a progressive understanding of this issue. After all, you've never been Prime Minister too long to learn. Mr. Chairman. In the last five years, my party has fought hard against discrimination. It is good to see that warm words are written about this in the coalition agreement. I would also like to congratulate you on the fact that institutional racism is mentioned for the first time in a government agreement. I think I remember Prime Minister Rutte having a hard time with that not so long ago. There is progress here too. However, it is important that there is also a targeted approach. On that point, I will table a motion later. It is also a good thing that the basic grant is being restored and that the loan system is being adapted, but a compensation of EUR 1 billion is really not enough for the DENK group. In 2018, Minister Hoekstra said that the study debt would not count in mortgage applications. I shall be tabling a motion on this later in the debate in order to consolidate it. Mr. Chairman. I've heard the Prime Minister say he's offering an outstretched hand to the opposition. In 2012 that was still an open door. Turns out that's more like a crack. In 2017 he also had all that outstretched hand. It turns out there's a couple of pins in there every now and then. What's it gonna be now? Are the promises of a different way of dealing with the Chamber, more transparency and a different administrative culture going to lead to a real outstretched hand, or is it going to be a slap in the face? Something tells me that the House of Representatives will agree by majority with the fourth Rutte cabinet. And that will be a fact. I seem to remember once it didn't happen. That was in 1939, when the Colijn cabinet immediately received a motion of censure. I don't think such a motion is gonna make it today. That's my guess. The cabinet has great plans for the future, especially for the distant future. Tens of billions of euros will be added to this. But as the CDA says in the election program, there is no free money. It'll have to be paid back someday. The state debt is threatening to become a whale. The cabinet must be careful that it does not become a snow slider and the financial problems pass over to the next generations: a little more the story of Joseph's grain shed. I'm not comfortable with the funds and the constructions. I do not think this Parliament is some sort of Shark Tank, where ministers come to pitch things with all kinds of funds. This can also be done through normal budgetary policy and budget law. In everything that this cabinet does, and in particular the Prime Minister, one must realize whether this is good for our country. Does this benefit the Dutch and especially the most vulnerable? That antenna really needs to be tuned better, because the cabinet made a double false start. Look at the debacle with the subsidy scheme in Groningen, where long rows of people with a rollator were humiliated in the cold. Also look at the wrong estimate that makes all Dutch people decline in purchasing power, especially people with only AOW. They really deserve better. The handling of the premium affair, including the investigation into children who have been removed from home, is crucial for my group when it comes to trust in the cabinet. It will still require a lot of energy and commitment. I ask the Prime Minister to have an active involvement in this. Don't let the parents and the kids down. This cabinet may want to save humanity, but let us not forget the people in the Netherlands. The cabinet wants to save the climate, but the people are already literally in the cold. The cabinet wants to solve the nitrogen problems in the future, but people sometimes can't breathe. Finally, I would like to state that I have my restrained motion in part No. 92 (35788) will be put to the vote. That's the way it's supposed to be. Finally, I have two motions and 48 seconds to speak, so that goes well. Just good management, I say to colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch students have an average student debt of €15,000 in 2021;]] [[noting that the mortgage space is limited in the case of mortgage applications by start-ups with a study debt;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that study debts do not weigh in on mortgage applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that institutional racism is a major problem and affects, inter alia, the labour market, the housing market and education;]] [[noting that the approach to institutional racism is lacking from public authorities, employers and brokers;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an institutional approach with a specific vision in the fight against institutional racism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-148]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u337	I wish the Cabinet every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u338	Thank you. Right in time. That is indeed good management. I give the floor to Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister and all the officials for answering all the questions. I would also like to thank you for two commitments. The first is to look at the use of old people's housing and the urgency to see if it really needs to be built first for older people, so that the flow starts sooner. I welcome the second commitment, but the Prime Minister has already made it. So I look at him just as closely to include generation policy and the impact of demographic developments in the different policy areas. He nods, so it is immediately recorded in the Acts. As I said today, the coalition agreement and also the government declaration paid rather little attention to the elderly. At least the impression has been given that older people are a forgotten group after all. Our elders don't deserve that. The Prime Minister said today that he would like to make up for this omission and that he will take it into account in the formulation of policies. So that's what I like to hold him to. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a purchasing power gap between workers and pensioners for years;]] [[noting that the cabinet wishes to decouple the AOW from the minimum wage on a one-off basis in order not to grant the 7.5% increase to AOWs;]] [[noting that opposition and senior sections of the coalition parties as well as the pensioners of the Netherlands consider this undesirable;]] [[Whereas, if the decoupling is to continue, the government must do something about the purchasing power of pensioners;]] [[calls on the Government to make an inventory of how and by what amount it ensures that pensioners do not decline in purchasing power, and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government agreement provides for greater attention to be paid to the implementation test;]] [[Whereas the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau concludes in the reflection on the coalition agreement that it is important to involve citizens in the implementation of policies;]] [[calls on the government to consider not only the feasibility of policies in the implementation test, but also whether it is understandable, accessible and accessible to citizens and, therefore, to take a very clear view of the citizen's perspective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that carers are of great economic and social value;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a comprehensive vision of informal care, including family care, and to include in it the commitments of the Administrative Agreement Together strongly in favour of family care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-150]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Hermans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-151]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Haan and Mr Warmerdam.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u340	Thank you. Thanks to the Prime Minister and the staff of officials for their reply. I'd better get started on the motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new coalition talks about looking critically at itself and that another political culture is also part of the new governance culture;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement promised that the controlling role of representatives of the people would be well served;]] [[Whereas it is crucial that before decisions or considerations are published or leaked in the media, the Chamber is informed;]] [[encourages the cabinet to proactively inform the Chamber, to be transparent and to inform the media or other third parties about matters only after the Lower House has been informed, and to act actively against government members, employees or others who are close to the Cabinet and have Cabinet information, which does not comply with this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that additional resources are allocated to suicide prevention in the budgetary annex to the Coalition Agreement;]] [[noting that the budget released does not contain a growth line;]] [[Whereas the demand for aid for suicide prevention continues to increase by more than 20% annually and that suicide prevention during corona appears to be even more urgent than it normally is;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ensure funding of the help line 113 at the current level plus expected growth, in order to keep the aid available for people in the Netherlands who are suffering from suicide,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is not clear what the exact state of nature is, partly because there is no scientific committee, and that no data are known about the exact state of the soil in Natura 2000 sites;]] [[Whereas the disappearance of agricultural holdings in large numbers, partly due to the planned nitrogen policy, may lead to declining food security and declining landscape management in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to first carry out independent scientific research into the state of nature and what may be necessary to restore nature in the Natura 2000 sites, and to await its results before spending any EUR 1 on measures that have a negative impact on agricultural and other undertakings bordering on nature reserves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the assessment of nature policy does not take into account the establishment of new species of plants and/or insects;]] [[noting that this does not do justice to the assessment of the state of nature;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether monitoring of new species can contribute to understanding the state of nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only nitrogen emissions from the agricultural sector are detailed;]] [[noting that industrial companies may themselves identify and transmit their nitrogen emissions;]] [[Whereas there is insufficient capacity to control this;]] [[Whereas from one of the top five nitrogen emitters until the end of last year no complete reporting was available;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to develop an approach to reflect the actual nitrogen emissions of all industrial companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cause of climate change is known to increase greenhouse gas concentrations;]] [[noting that food production is part of the short carbon cycle, whereby nutrients are temporarily converted;]] [[noting that nutrients contained in food and feed crops do not count as negative emissions, but sometimes appear as emissions on the balance sheet;]] [[whereas for a fair image you count either both, or neither;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how this temporary food commitment can be taken into account in the objective of reconciling greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand and the commitment on the other,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Simons and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-153]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van der Plas, Ploumen, Van der Staaij, Den Haan, Van Haga, Azarkan, Segers, Pieter Heerma, Paternotte, Hermans and Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-154]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-155]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-156]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-157]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition is considering cutting back on youth care by standardizing the treatment time or introducing its own contribution;]] [[Whereas FNV, BGZJ, MIND and Defence for Children have already expressed their opposition to the introduction of their own contribution to the specialised youth assistance, as it may lead to care avoidance, worsening of complaints, heavier requests for assistance and an increase in forced recording and crisis treatment;]] [[noting that the own contribution in the adult ggz was abolished in 2013 for precisely the above-mentioned reasons;]] [[Whereas the introduction of a generic own contribution will pose problems in many situations such as debt, children and young people receiving care without the knowledge of parents, and children and young people receiving care within the forced framework, and therefore looking at a lot of tailor-made work, making the implementation framework impossible and can contribute to unnecessary administrative and implementation costs;]] [[Notes that the treatment time is for clients and treatment providers to determine and not for the government;]] [[points out that no own contribution should be made to youth care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas students who studied until 2015 received an average of €14,000 in basic grant for four years of study;]] [[whereas students had to borrow the money that a student would have received from the basic grant for the introduction of the system between 2015 and 2023 by introducing the loan system;]] [[Whereas students are likely to receive the same amount from 2023 on completion of the cabinet plan to re-introduce the grant;]] [[noting that the new cabinet has allocated 1 billion to compensate 1 million students from this unlucky generation, which amounts to €1,000 per student;]] [[calls on the Government to provide adequate compensation for these students in such a way that the compensation is comparable to the donations to the students covered by the basic grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas around 2 million Dutch live around the poverty line and one in nine children grow up in poverty because the minimum wage has not sufficiently risen with inflation;]] [[Considering that in order to address this inequality, the minimum income should be equal to at least 60% of the local median income, and that in the Netherlands this should be equal to €14 per hour in 2022;]] [[considers that high inflation should be reflected in the plans to increase the minimum wage;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with small and medium-sized enterprises, to examine what is needed to increase the minimum wage to €15 per hour by 1 January 2023 and to maintain the link with benefits;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine what measures can be taken in connection with the taxation of high wealth and income in order to keep the increase of the minimum wage to €15 per hour on 1 January 2023 affordable and to forward its findings to the Chamber before Princess Day 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the imposition of a declaration of illegal residence by the Government is punishable by criminal law for asylum seekers who have been processed;]] [[noting that asylum seekers residing in the Netherlands who are declared undesirable are thereby punished by imprisonment;]] [[opposes criminalising asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government not to implement the plans for criminal detention of asylum seekers who have been detained;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Den Haan and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-159]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-160]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-161]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Simons, Mr Klaver, Mr Ploumen and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u342	43 seconds and I'm not gonna use them, Mr. President. It's refreshing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u343	Thank you. I call Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u344	Mr. Chairman. The ritual debate over the past two days has, as expected, yielded nothing. Two days wasted on pointless theatre, while the entire catering industry is closed and the museums are closed, in short, while the whole society is disrupted by the corona measures. Tens of thousands of entrepreneurs don't know if they're gonna make it to the end of winter, and we've done nothing for them again. What we do know for sure is that the elderly are falling significantly. It spends 90 billion on all kinds of jubilee funds, but it cuts 2.4 billion on the linking of the AOW to the minimum wage. What we also know for certain is that our children are going to pay the bill for the hole in the hand of this cabinet. And what we also know for sure is that the Dutch business community is the victim of this bureaucrat cabinet and that our entrepreneurs are going to become second-class citizens. The almighty is as a waterhead with 100,000 extra officials and nothing for the entrepreneurs: it is to cry. To help the entrepreneurs, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement aims to reduce regulatory pressure for SMEs;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to come forward within six months with a plan to reduce the regulatory burden for SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u345	Mr. Chairman. An energy transition organised by well-meaning alphas is a guarantee of a failure. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large amounts are spent through the Climate and Transition Fund and the nitrogen fund;]] [[calls on the Government to keep all investments under review for efficiency and effectiveness, and to forward the results to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to allocate a substantial part of the climate and transition fund to energy saving by private households and SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-164]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u346	Mr. Chairman. BVNL is very concerned about the nitrogen smell. The problem of nitrogen is an administrative problem and we are going to throw EUR 25 billion into the ditch. Farmers and builders are the victims of a kafkaesque carnival that doesn't make any sense. That's why the next and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in the Annex to the Coalition Agreement, the nitrogen fund has been divided into several tracks in which money is reserved for specific purposes;]] [[Whereas it is not clear whether there is support for this distribution among stakeholders;]] [[calls on the government to abandon the nitrogen fund and first seek support before the money is spent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u348	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. The debate was still a little too much about small measures and how we can correct 100 million in cuts. Not that they're not important, but this cabinet has planned a mega-issue with the biggest deficit, a deficit that's actually bigger than what's unfolding under Den Uyl. That is dangerous and I will continue to draw attention to the consequences for future generations. Anyone who says this has no impact on future generations is lying to the children. I am therefore very interested in the Government's answer to my question on how it looks at ECB policy. Because of the massive shopping there and the generous tax policy we conduct, we run a great risk of a debt crisis with mass unemployment and everything that goes with it. Mr. Chairman. I am waiting with interest to see how the cabinet is going to do a good research on the removals and reunite those children. I will continue my efforts and this remains a debt of honor from this cabinet. Because I'm shocked by the conversations I've had and I'm not easily frightened. The same applies to the study of over-mortality. The answers should have been here, but they won't be here until tonight. Mr President, two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is coming forward with a medium-term vision for the corona strategy in February;]] [[calls on the government to address clearly in this strategy:]] [[how prevention including ventilation is given a prominent role;]] [[the way in which tax debts do not unnecessarily lead to corporate collapse;]] [[a catch-up plan for deferred care, including funding and who can provide it;]] [[proper and effective protection of basic human rights in the event of necessary measures;]] [[care for lung covid patients, including a fair WIA verification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the marginal tax rate for higher middle incomes is higher, i.e. more than 50%, than for real top incomes;]] [[noting that ordinary people pay 10% to 40% inheritance tax, but family businesses pay less than 0% effectively through double use of the BOR;]] [[noting that foreign investors pay taxes on rental income with great ease and not on profits on sales in the Netherlands;]] [[considers that the coalition is too short;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a change to the coalition agreement with fairer and balanced taxation and a smaller deficit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Eerdmans, Mr Dassen, Mr Den Haan, Mr Simons, Mr Segers, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-167]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Simons, Mr Den Haan and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35788-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u351	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. I want to suspend for 45 minutes. At 7:45 we start again, three minutes extra, indeed. Then we'll start with the second term on the cabinet side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u352	The next item is the second term of office in the debate on the declaration of government. There are still a number of questions to be answered and a number of motions, quite a lot, for appreciation. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u353	Mr. President, I need to get this place organized quickly. There are a few more questions. So, let's see. The previously adopted Dassen motion on the lobby register is involved in the drafting of a code of conduct for directors. The initiative lies with the Minister of BZK. The preparation of this has been initiated. The code of conduct is expected to be ready by next summer. In this context, the vote on the lobby register will continue. Then there is the lobby and legislation. There has been a response to the initiative paper of the Labour Party, Lobby in daylight. The response is that organisations and citizens can contribute to legislative proposals in different ways, for example through formal consultations and, for some years now, through internet consultations. This is reported in the explanatory memorandum of legislative proposals. This will also make it clear who has contributed and what has been done with it in the legislative proposal. This method is laid down in designation 4.44 of the Regulatory Instructions. I myself have no indication that it is not being respected. So I think the first one for the MBZK and the second one is in execution that way. Then there is the question of the law on supervisors. We ensure that supervisors such as the Personal Data Authority, the National Ombudsman, the General Court of Auditors, the Advisory Committee on Control Pressure and the inspections receive additional resources to carry out their tasks. In addition, we want to work to ensure better independence of inspections. To this end, a bill will be drawn up for a law on state inspections. This must of course be regulated by law, so I cannot anticipate that at this stage. Then there was a question about the constitutional review. For the time being, I have to stick to my previous answer, which means that we take it up in line with the opinion of the State Committee. We examine which design is best suited to the Dutch legal system. The letter from the previous cabinet does indeed highlight some aspects of principle and also of a more practical nature, but there will undoubtedly be more issues on the agenda. The coalition agreement gives a clear mandate to proceed with constitutional review. I do not want to anticipate the exact form and content of this. We must also discuss this in the Cabinet. Then Mrs. Den Haan about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u354	Before you proceed, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u355	I understand that those choices still have to be made and that you don't make all those choices in the first cabinet council. I think it is very important, but there are really other things, such as Groningen, that you should be talking about at the first cabinet council. What I was looking for here in answer is whether this cabinet itself is taking up the constitutional change, so whether it has already decided. Because "taking by hand" can also mean: we start with it and eventually we don't do it. That later than those choices become clear seems clear to me, but is there going to be a constitutional change in this direction and a note explaining the choices within six months, three-quarters of a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u356	Again, that hasn't been decided yet. It's been decided that this cabinet wants to take it down. This means that we are actually taking up the drafting of the constitutional review. That is also in line with the state committee. So it's not "a little studying"; we're really gonna do things. But the precise design and what it means or does not mean with regard to the Constitution really need to be further developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u357	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u358	Article 120 of the Constitution provides that you cannot allow Dutch laws to be judged by the judge against the Constitution. Low regulation can be tested. The amendment of the Constitution which changes that article is therefore a sine qua non to carry out any form of constitutional review. After that, you can still choose what you bring underneath it, whether you do it with a court or whatever. My question is: the cabinet has not yet decided whether it is going to submit that constitutional amendment or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u359	What we have decided is that we want to shape this constitutional review. I think Mr Omtzigt is right, moreover, that this is not in line with Article 120 of the Constitution, but I cannot now make a final statement on the precise legal form. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mrs Den Haan's question on pension funds. The transitional legislation allows pension funds to index rather than in the current situation. Now a threshold of 110% may be indexed above. In the transition legislation this is 105%. This means that pension benefits can take place more quickly than is currently the case. This extended indexation framework applies to all pension funds intending to enter the new pension system. After all, the new pension system will have to keep fewer financial buffers, which is why funds wishing to move to the new system will already be subject to more flexible requirements in the coming years. It is the pension funds that make these decisions, in coordination with their membership representation. They shall jointly assess whether an increase is balanced for all generations under the Fund. They must take into account that they have sufficient cash when entering the new system. For pension funds where the coverage rate is not yet above 105%, indexation is not possible due to the importance of a balanced distribution across all generations. The cabinet can play no role in this, other than, of course, in shaping the general rules. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue I was talking about with Mr Omtzig before the break. I had it checked with Franc Weerwind, the Minister for Legal Protection. There has indeed been an introductory meeting between him and Member of Parliament Pieter Omtzigt, in which the Member of Parliament has expressed his concerns. The new minister has heard that. He didn't respond specifically to that. That also makes sense to me, because he has just begun and must, of course, form a precise picture of it. Yesterday, Mr Omtzigt asked during the scheme for a letter in response to his motion to supplement the previous Minister for Legal Protection's letter of 26 November. The current Minister for Legal Protection will send that letter in mid-February. It is true that a national support team for parents must be operational by 1 April. The design of the support is, of course, separate from the investigation by the inspections. It's not like nothing's gonna happen in the meantime. This week started with a first pilot of the first support team. Some other pilots will follow in the coming weeks. The case mentioned by Mr Omtzigt is part of those pilots. The first experience with the first support teams would like to take the Minister into account in his letter of mid-February. That's about that point. So that process is, I think, carefully aligned. Finally, there were two questions. First of all...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u360	Before you go any further, I will look at Mr Omtzigt for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u361	I believe that I talk to the cabinet every week about the investigation, first with the outgoing cabinet and now with the new cabinet. Then it's a conversation I'm being heard in. That's not the first conversation I've been heard in. It cannot be carried out by the inspections. I'm just making it a personal fact. Then I won't have to answer it, but then we'll know. You can't deal with 18,000 removals a year. You can't know that there are already 1,115 removals of children involved in the supplementing affair, because we only have half in sight. That cannot go on for 15 years, while inspections, including questions, do not intervene or do not control. It is the work of the inspections to see whether it is done carefully and whether the law is respected. The memo I gave to the Prime Minister and three ministers states that there must also be clear legal guarantees as to how the removal is going. These people didn't have access to a lawyer. The kids were taken away while they were at school. Sometimes they didn't even tell me what happened. It happened with a phone call to the judge. Come on! If you see the files, this is unworthy of a rule of law. Therefore, my urgent request: do not do this with these two inspections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u362	This was, by the way, a point of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u363	That is the second part of the reply, which I had already mentioned in the previous round, in the first period. But I would like to give Mr Omtzig the following undertaking. The Minister for Legal Protection sent that letter in mid-February. I will ask him to address these concerns about the precise guarantee of independence. I understand Mr Omtzig's point in itself, but at the same time I also respect the people who work in the inspections. I hear very well what he's saying. I will ask Mr Weerwind, through this debate, to clarify this aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u364	Mrs Simons van Bij1 had also asked a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u365	I had asked another question about the group of people, the group of parents, where we can at least talk financially of a completed case. It makes sense to me that you're involved in these kids, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u366	I think we should be careful not to give rise to expectations that we would be able to reunite the babies very quickly with their parents and b that when a case is settled about the childcare allowance, it is also guaranteed that the child can return home. That's how I understand Mrs Simons. I think that's really up to the experts. That's not us. At least I'm not. We need to look again at the family situation. You do not know for sure whether this was the result of the removal, even though the suspicion is, of course, that there is a connection with the child care allowance affair. But you don't know that for sure. So you really need to keep that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u367	Mrs. Simons, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u368	I agree with the Prime Minister. I must confess quite frankly that I do miss the word "demissionary." I agree with the Prime Minister that we should not break into it from The Hague and that it does not automatically mean anything else. But I'm a mother. And just the thought that there are parents in the Netherlands who don't see their children and do not know where those children are, have no contact and have no idea for years, really gets to me. We cannot break into these processes here, but I can imagine that we will make this a priority, so that the whole debacle around the supplement scandal for these parents can really come to an end as soon as possible. We can take into account that there are families who want to close up. So we agree, but I'm really looking for a way to at least make it bearable for these parents. For a lot of parents, it would matter if they at least knew where their child is and could occasionally call it or be in contact with it in any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u369	I understand Mrs Simons in such a way that she says that you cannot say categorically: the case surrounding the childcare allowance is finished, so reunification. We both understand that. But she does ask if more priority can be given to this. I'm not going to say yes or no right now. However, I am going to ask Franc Weerwind to include this aspect in his letter of mid-February, in which he also goes into the letter of 26 November and responds to the motion. I can't make a firm commitment to that right now. I can't oversee that, but I get the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u370	Mr Omtzigt, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u371	I'm just gonna say it anyway. I went to the two ministers responsible for this letter of 26 November, namely 22 November. The Court's ruling was clear: an independent investigation. And it's not. We go on and on and on and on...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u372	And your question to the Prime Minister, very specific now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u373	I'm just saying I don't accept the results of that investigation in advance. I don't accept that we just keep going and moving on. I do not accept that I get no response when I contact ministers and they ask what their interpretation is and I explain it. Then it is: we are just going to do this way of research. After we had received the investigation from the Donner Committee, knowing that Donner was in the Council of State, that error was, and knowing that Klijnsma was Asscher's right-hand man, who was then responsible minister... After the attempt to have the Afghanistan debacle investigated by Frank de Grave, who did the broadcast himself, I say: don't do this! Make a fresh start with the way you do research. That would simply be a credit to the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u374	Mr President, a personal fact. I'm having a little trouble with the way Louis Asscher, Jetta Klijnsma and Frank de Grave are now here...Sorry, I really object to that. Anyway, we're going back to the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u375	No, let's...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u376	I'm gonna finish my point anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u377	We are failing the subject by letting it now degenerate into this type of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u378	No, that's why I'm going back to the content...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u379	We're gonna stop this right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u380	However, I have to say that when colleagues I welcome are mentioned here, I have a bit of a problem with that. That goes for Jetta Klijnsma and Lodewijk Asscher. I've never worked with Frank de Grave, but he's a party partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u381	Shortly, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u382	They were involved in a professional role. And if you want to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest in an investigation, you don't let those people do that investigation. That's the port of the question I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u383	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u384	And that's why I think it's unwise what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u385	You've issued that signal now. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u386	Sorry, I'm going to say it anyway, because something is being said about Jetta Klijnsma in relation to Asscher which really went further that Mr Omtzig's later, nuanced contribution, which I do understand. But now back to the content, because that content is relevant. I have already said that there is a motion from Omtzigt and a letter from Dekker, and a letter was promised by Weerwind in mid-February. It's about the precise implementation of that motion. I've just explained that completely. This is also to ensure that by 1 April that national support team is also operational nationally, including what happens in the meantime. I have already said that the case referred to by Mr Omtzigt is part of the pilots that are taking place and are about to take place. I believe that there is one point left aside from Mr Omtzigt's wish to speed it up. That is his doubts about the independence of inspections. I have already said that I am going to ask Mr Weerwind to reconsider this and to discuss it in more detail in his letter of mid-February. That's all I can do right now. Two more points. Mr Dassen asked about the nature of the planning. I have already said, and I have been interrupted by Mrs Hermans, that in three weeks' time we hope to report as concretely as possible to each department when the Chamber can expect the further development of the coalition agreement plans. So that's the character of that report to the Chamber in three weeks. Then Mr. Eerdmans. I have indeed failed to respond to his questions on victim policy. He was right about that. They were important and legitimate questions, asking a careful answer. I've been in touch with JenV at least, not myself, but officially, even though that's me under state law. Mr Eerdmans can count on a letter which specifically addresses his questions. I cannot do that now, but the whole aspect of victim policy is reflected in a letter from the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u387	Can you tell me about the deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u388	No, I don't have one here. But knowing her, that's never gonna take long. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 911 is a speech-out. So I don't have to give them any advice. The motion in part No. 113, with reference to the debate, I should like to advise against. We have discussed this in detail. The motion in part No. 114 is about the increase in the energy bill. Significant measures have been taken: the energy tax, the energy allowance for minima, a budget for minima and a budget for insulation materials. We're holding the finger on the wrist. In view of all these activities, I would like the motion in part No. 114 dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 115. The coalition agreement includes an investment for pandemic preparedness, including for flexible scaling-up of intensive care. I want the motion in part no. 115 dissuaded. The motion in part No. 116 has no cover. Moreover, the coalition agreement provides for a structural allocation of 200 million for this type of business. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 116. The motion in part No. Mr Wilders' 117 concerns the 60 billion for the climate and nitrogen fund. All that has to go to purchasing power. With reference to the debate, I would like to discourage that motion. The motion in part No. 118 is about taking away the right to vote and stand as a candidate. On this point, I would like to say that the removal of the right to vote requires a judicial decision. So that's not up to the cabinet. The Constitution and the law provide a basis for crimes that seriously affect the state system, but I do not believe that there is any reason to change the legal framework. I want the motion in part no. 118 so advise against it. The motion in part No. 119 is a pronunciation. The motion in part No. 120, I'd like to leave judgment room. We naturally support the importance of tackling cybercrime. That's what the coalition agreement says. Entrepreneurs also already have the attention in the cybercrime approach. The motion aims to strengthen it. The motion in part No. 121 is about the gas extraction. Gas extraction is completed as soon as possible and is justified. That is also laid down by law. That's what the Cabinet is doing. I reject this motion because the cabinet cannot now give guarantees about the gas extraction that is needed this year. The Secretary of State shall inform the Chamber before a decision is taken on all relevant estimates, security frameworks and considerations. The motion in part No. 121 is therefore not recommended. The motion in part No. 122 is about power inequality. I should like to say the following. That ibo comes in April and we come in for the summer with a reaction. Let us have the debate on this. Perhaps I could ask Mrs Marijnissen the motion in part No. 122 in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u389	I would like to look at Mrs Marijnissen's motion on item No. 122 wants to stop. She wants to think about it for a while. We're gonna vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u390	I sense a positive basic attitude. The motion in part No. 123 with a reference to the debate, I should like to advise against. The motion in part No. 124 is similar to the motion in part No. 133 of Heerma and the motion in part No. 150 from Den Haan. I would like to read that motion in such a way that we have a broad view, also in line with Fathernotte's reaction to an interruption. As far as purchasing power is concerned, of course, we are looking more broadly than just pensioners. That also comes back in the motion Heerma and the motion Den Haan. If I may interpret the motion in this way against that background, it is a Chamber for our opinion. The motion in part No. Mrs Marijnissen's 125 contribution to affordability is limited. There's a lot of money going to the tenants who don't need it. That's a risk too, and it's mainly having a negative impact on investment capacity. That is how it was discussed in today's debate. The motion in part No. So I'd like to dissuade 125. I really want to ask for the motion in part No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yeah, the last one, too, but all the way here. Why? Because it gives Minister De Jonge for Housing and Spatial Planning the opportunity to send a letter about this. Here a few things are correlated, which is also driven by the further sale of social housing and the construction of new social housing. I understand the direction in which the motion is going, but it seems to me wise to see, with this motion in mind, the elaboration of the cabinet's plans by Minister De Jonge. So, in that context, I would like to ask for the motion in part No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u391	I don't really understand. In itself, the thrust of the motion is very clear and I cannot imagine that the opposite would be the aim, namely that there should be no more social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u392	That's certainly not the point. I suspect that is not the outcome of the policy either, but I think it is nice to give the Minister a chance to look at this in conjunction with the cabinet where we are just beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u393	Yes, but by that I mean to say: in whatever context you would look at this, I cannot imagine a scenario in which this is not a desirable motion. If that is the case, then this raises even more questions that were actually there when the coalition agreement was presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u394	I don't think it's an undesirable motion. This is the first debate after the coalition agreement to give the Minister for Housing the opportunity to direct its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u395	However, a question about this. I do not entirely agree with the suggestions made by Mrs Marijnissen in the motion, but the operative part of the motion states that the number of social housing should not be reduced. The ambition is to build a million homes over the next ten years. The coalition agreement states that two thirds of them should be in the affordable segment. Does the Prime Minister see a possible outcome in which a million homes are built, but where we end up with less social housing than we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u396	No, but then we must also be able to make that net 775,000, the Azarkansom I have previously shared, real. Of course, we're going to do the best we can for that. I think Mr Heerma is right about that. On balance, this will be the net effect. It is certainly not the aim of the policy to have less social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u397	I'm not interested in the purpose. It's definitely not the target. But we made an agreement that we're going to build a million homes. There's a lot of stuff in there. It says explicitly, in my view, in the second bullet, that two thirds of them should be in the affordable segment, rent and purchase. Then the Prime Minister can go a little further than saying that he thinks that the outcome is not that we get less social rentals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u398	If I can interpret the motion in such a way that I think so, it's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u399	No. I think the Prime Minister can report this here, just numerically. If we build so much and the point is that it gets into the affordable segment, the outcome can of course never be that we end up with less social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u400	That seems to me to be the case, to be honest. As Heerma puts it, in the light of the construction ambition et cetera, with that explanation, I can live well with it. Yes. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u401	I'll take a look at Mrs. Marijnissen. So could the motion get a ruling, too, Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u402	If Mrs Marijnissen agrees with the wording of Pieter Heerma, then I am fine with it. Then the motion can get judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u403	Mrs. Marijnissen, it's about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u404	Yes. Well, this is the outstretched hand. It's a very short motion. It's a very clear motion. It just says in black and white that the outcome can't really be that there will be fewer social housing. In my view, this is not very open to different scenarios and cannot be explained at all. It's not very complicated anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u405	I'm fine with it. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u406	The motion in part No. 126 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u407	Isn't it okay to talk about it? We haven't built an extra house yet, but we do have the goals clearly. About the Paternotte c.s. motion. in piece No. 127, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. I would like to say a few things about it. The operative part of this motion suggests that there are alternatives. There is also a risk here, and I really want to have said quite frankly that expectations may not be met either. After all, the policy of the cabinet is already to use the Groninger Field as little as possible. That's even in the law: no more than necessary. However, if I may read the motion in such a way that the Secretary of State will look at all possible scenarios in order to minimize the extra extraction when taking his decision. Of course, this will also come to the Chamber. With that interpretation, judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 128 is about tackling labour market shortages. Can I add the technology sector to that? If that is the case, the motion will also be given a Chamber of Appeal. I really would like to ask for the motion in part No. I think it is right to give the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education the opportunity to send a letter about it here too, at least in the course of his policy development. Why is that? Because the government would come here in eight weeks with a letter about closing that pay gap. In itself this can be done, but it will say that the coalition agreement has that ambition. But it is already retroactive from January 2022. We couldn't check it out so soon, but I thought there was still a small run-up in the coalition agreement. It's flat? Well, then she could be judged Chamber. We were just preparing it, and then we said there's a walk-in. But if he's flat, the motion can get judgment room. We didn't get the financial support that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u408	The motion in part No. 129: Judgment of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u409	Yeah, then the verdict is "Room." For the motion in part No. 130 by Mrs Ploumen c.s. I refer to the debate. In the spring, we're going to look very closely at how we're going to fix that purchasing power picture. I'm gonna have to dissuade him now. Then the motion to part No. 131. The cabinet takes targeted measures to reduce housing costs of low incomes. The use of standard rents encourages people to end up in rental homes that match their income. The sale of social housing to tenants puts tenants in a position to build assets. This leads to greater involvement and quality of the neighbourhood's living environment. The measures are all part of a coherent package of measures for the housing market. Against this background, and partly with reference to the debate, I would like the motion on item No. 131 dissuade. Then there is the start note on the fair tax system. I would really ask you to wait for the ibo and then have that debate. Moreover, we intend to take the first steps towards simplifying and reforming the tax system, but that really takes a little more time. I would ask Mrs Ploumen to put the motion to the vote. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and to congratulate him on the work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u410	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Ploumen. Mrs Ploumen, are you prepared to hold the motion or do you want to think about it? It's about the motion in part No. 132.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u411	The difference between the Prime Minister and myself is that I know there's power inequality. So I don't have to think about it. I'm not holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u412	I respect that. Then I'll have to discourage the motion. What can I say about the motion on item No. 133? During the spring decision-making process, the government will consider the need and possibilities for purchasing power adjustment. That is, of course, within the budgetary framework. In principle, additional resources for one group may also have an impact on other groups. On balance, I want the motion in part No. 133 judgment room. The motion in part No. 134 is about youth care. There is no question of austerity. We are going to look both at the quality of youth care and at how we can ensure that youth care is more focused on people who are now at risk of being put on the waiting list. Pieter Heerma put that well in his second term. These are people who need stronger support. It's not a cutdown. We are really going to have that debate with each other on the basis of the content. I think that the motion in part No. 134 in the operative part goes too far, but the atmosphere of the debate as we have had today will, as far as I am concerned, guide the further development. The motion in part No. 135 by Mr Klaver, I give judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u413	What is your appreciation of the motion in part No. 134?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u414	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u415	Dissuade. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u416	What if I turn "sustainment" into a "terminal"? Apparently, he's falling for words. We'll be talking about "more/less" and whether it's a cut-off. There's a 500 million-dollar mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u417	No, that wasn't the main point. I just wanted to make the point that we're not cutting back. There'll be more money, eventually 300 million in youth care. Once again, I think the debate has been well conducted. And we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u418	The motion in part No. 135.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u419	The motion in part No. As far as I am concerned, Mr Klaver has 135 judges in Chamber. In any case, in the new way of working, we will have a more open debate on objectives and the instrumentalisation of policies. In doing so, explication of objectives is part of the conversation. In doing so, we provide guidance on how we do business, including the issue of broad prosperity. We also give them hands and feet. We see with planning agencies and the CBS how this can better fit with the other policy cycles and can also be taken into account in the budget chapters. I can't guarantee that all this will happen in the spring. Against that backdrop, the motion gets judgment Chamber. The Segers motion in part No. 136, I'm gonna make judgment room. Of course, it all needs to be worked out very carefully. My fine political feeling says that it will be adopted anyway, so we better agree. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The motion in part No. 137, including Mr Segers, calls on the government to involve the Chamber in the design of the climate and transition fund and the nitrogen fund. He does get judgment, Room. We have also included in the starting note that a proposal for the establishment of the funds will be made at the latest in the spring note. That's the motion in part No. 137. The motion in part No. 138 I would advise against, because we are opting for a strong national approach to climate policy, of course in cooperation with abroad. The imposition of menus suggestions does not now contribute to the necessary support. The motion in part No. 138 is therefore not recommended. Then the motion to part No. 139. We opt for customization, especially when dealing with the big exotics. We also involve the impact on the living environment and long-term investments in the Netherlands. Against that background, I would like the motion in part No. 139 dissuade. I would like to ask Mrs Ouwehand for the motion on item No. 140. I said earlier today that we are looking at the German plans for a climate test. I had that discussion this morning far before lunch with Mr Dassen. In the coalition agreement we have stated that we have evidence-based and based on scientific insights to do the work. We believe that this is very close to the German climate test, but that is being looked at even further. I would ask the Minister for Climate and Energy to make a very precise assessment of this. I therefore ask that the motion should not be put to the vote now, but that it should be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u420	I'll take a look at Mrs. Ouwehand. It is prepared to do so, for which it is grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u421	I have already mentioned the right of veto in the debate. I want the motion in part no. 141, with reference to the debate. Also the motion in part No. 142 I must advise against. A National Action Plan on zoonoses has been announced. I really want to wait for that. She would have the motion in part no. 142, but she wants to take those precautions right now. With reference to the debate, I would like to refer to the motion on item No. 142 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u422	I'll hold on to the motion on the climate test. I still have an answer from the Prime Minister, namely whether he is prepared to make double climate gains by turning the norm in the ministries: vegetable standard and anyone who wants meat or dairy with all the force can do so must ask for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u423	I have no idea what this is about. Oh, it's about the lunch we serve. No, we're not gonna do that. We really leave that to the ministers and their departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u424	Then I am very curious whether the Prime Minister would like to think about this and inform the Chamber about it in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u425	No, please leave that to the departments themselves. We heard the suggestion. That part of the debate assists me. It was a quick win.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u426	Free, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u427	Free. But at the same time it is also a far-reaching intervention in people's happiness, at least depending on how you stand in life. I would really like to leave that to participation, policy in the ministries, secretary-general, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u428	It's a "no," Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u429	I am very curious to see whether there will be any change in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u430	Then the motion to part No. 143.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u431	I need to be very specific. I would actually like to ask for that motion to be held. The point is this. I have just given the answer to Mr Dassen on the lobby register. The previous motion has been taken up. The other part of the motion, namely to implement the Dassen motion referred to above, deals with the other issue mentioned in it, namely not the lobby section of the legislative proposals but the lobby register. That needs to be further worked out. That's what the Home Secretary is doing. He joins the Lower House in the summer with an effect. My question would therefore be that of the motion for a resolution on item No. 143. The motion is half worked out, but I ask for the other half to give Mrs Bruins Slot the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u432	I'm looking at Mr. Dassen. Yeah, thanks for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u433	Then the motion to part No. 144. I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. We hope for fruitful cooperation with opposition and coalition, and I would also like to discuss the substance of this Chamber. This applies to the entire cabinet, of course within the financial framework. The motion in part No. 144 of Mr Eerdmans is therefore given a Chamber judgment. The motion in part No. I must advise against Mr Eerdmans' 145. That is what I am doing with the reference to the debate we have had on that today. The motion in part No. I would like to leave to the House, on balance, 146 of Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Heerma on the consideration of the carers. At the moment, the cabinet does not envisage any new proposals as requested by the SGP here. The focus is now on the elaboration of the Borstlap Consultative Commission and the medium-term opinion of the ESC. But I can assure you that carers, families and volunteers naturally have special attention in this regard and where there are additional possibilities, we naturally take them up. If I make the motion to part No. 147 can be interpreted as explaining in the spring note the financial frameworks to which this cabinet has committed itself through the Start note and how the government intends to keep public finances sound in the long term, then I would like to give the motion a ruling Chamber. I see Mr Van der Staaij nodding yes. I should like to ask Mr Azarkan for the motion on item No. 148 to be retained. This simply has to do with the fact that at the moment we do not have the exact information on how student debt, mortgage and all these things relate precisely to each other, because we are also a little out of control here. In addition, a number of things need to be further worked out. You know that in the coalition agreement attention is paid to the effect of student debt on mortgages. That also has the attention of the cabinet. Of course, responsible lending is always the starting point. But I would like to ask you to stick to it and also to give the Minister of Education the opportunity to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u434	I'll keep these.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u435	At the request of Mr Azarkan, I propose his motion (35788, No. 148). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u436	In the motion in part No. 149 were a number of grievances. I had the wrong version. I handed in the correct version to the Registry. That version is still being sent around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u437	What has become the request? It will then become important. Mr. Azarkan, read it to me. You got him? Get him out of here. First, I'm going to move on to the motion on part number. 150. The motion in part No. 150 is about the inventory of purchasing power pensioners. During the spring decision-making process, the government will consider the need and possibilities for adjusting purchasing power for older people. This is also the subject of two other motions. Against that background, I'm judging Chamber for the motion in part No. 150 by Den Haan/Simons/Van der Plas/Azarkan. If I make the motion to part No. 151 on the execution test may interpret it in such a way that it should not be a separate test, but that it should be integrated into the whole legislative procedure, for example as part of the... One more thing. The do-it-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-your-y. Is that a thing? The prowess? Well, in the context of another test! Is that okay? Well, then, as far as we're concerned, it's Chamber. Then let's see which test it was. The motion in part No. 152 by Mrs Den Haan is about an integrated vision of informal care including family care. Here too, I would like to see whether we agree that we fully include the position of carers and the agreements contained in the administrative agreement in the elaboration of the coalition agreement. Then the motion gets torn. No 152 as far as we're concerned, Chamber. I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 153 to be retained, because of course we are going to work out a few things on this whole point. So to Mrs. Van der Plas the question to... The point is this. Here the impression is created that it is possible for the cabinet to also co-workers, others etc.... Maybe I can interpret him like that. Maybe I can do it this way, because then we won't have to arrest him. He can then get judgment room. Of course, we must prevent things from going outside, but I have made the profit warning here that we cannot control this up to the third sex. But in a general sense, pointing out that you don't want this kind of thing, of course, there's no other way than for this motion to get judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u438	Well, of course it's not about tracking it down to the third sex. The point is that something will be done if it is clear who did it. That person does not need to be put in jail immediately, but it needs to be dealt with. So up to the third sex is indeed a bit exaggerated, but I assume that something will be done as soon as the cabinet knows where it comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u439	But then we're not gonna report on that. We don't, because then it becomes very harmful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u440	Well, that's over. But there has to be some kind of action against such a person.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u441	Then the motion can get judgment Chamber as far as I'm concerned. Then I'm going back to the motion on part number one. 149 of Azarkan on institutional racism. The point is this, Mr. Azarkan. The National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism will present a national programme in June. I do not want to double that, so I think we can give the motion judgment Chamber, but I would ask Mr Azarkan to understand that we are not now coming up with a complete vision ourselves, but that we should first look at what the national coordinator comes up with and follow it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u442	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u443	The amended motion in part No. 149 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u444	The motion in part No. 154 is uncovered, but we'll do it anyway. This motion will be given Chamber as far as we are concerned. It is a very small amount and an extremely sensitive issue, so Court of Justice judgment. The motion in part No. 155 is not recommended. The policy is based on international agreements. The research into the state of nature takes place permanently. Addressing problematic nature is, of course, urgent, according to the Cabinet, so the motion in part No. 155 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 156 on the monitoring of new species of nature gets judgment Chamber, because it is standing policy. We didn't see anything new in it. Fine, judge Room. The motion in part No. 157 is about an approach to getting a picture of nitrogen emissions. The company's already reporting the emissions. That's controlled by the competent authority, so I have to discourage this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 158. This is already subject to international agreements based on scientific knowledge. So the motion in part No. 158 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 159 is a speech-expression. The motion in part No. 160 I should like to advise against referring to the debate. Then I come to the motion on part No. 161. The cabinet opts for a substantial increase in the wml. The Central Planning Office shows that the measures make a substantial contribution to reducing income disparities. The coalition agreement also states that the social minimum is reviewed every four years to see if it is sufficient. And a committee is about to start. Against that background, I would like the motion in part No. 161, because we do not feel the need to the same extent, given what we are all doing now. The motion in part No. 162 is partly an expression of opinion and partly a request to the government not to implement the plans for the criminal detention of asylum seekers who have been executed. I must advise against this motion in the light of the coalition agreement and the junk statement contained therein.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u445	The motion in part No. 162 is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u446	Yes. The motion in part No. 163 of Van Haga, I'd like to leave judgment room. The motion in part No. 164 I must advise against. It's all standing policy to keep all these investments under review. It's in line with the Compatibility Act. It also does no harm if the motion is adopted, because it is in line with what we are already doing. The motion in part No. 165, I really shouldn't advise. The cabinet makes substantial investments to tackle social problems. Ultimately, benefits also reach households and SMEs. It seems premature to me to give precise details of the use of the fund already. That needs to be worked out. Also the decommitment of the nitrogen fund, the motion in part No. 166, I must advise against. The breakdown is indicative and can always be adjusted if necessary. I believe that this indicative distribution is useful to make an impact on the policy package now. I want the motion in part no. 166 therefore advise against it. I should like to ask Mr Omtzigt for the motion for a resolution on item No. 167 to be retained. They're important topics, but we're coming up with a letter soon. I would like to give Minister Ernst Kuipers the space to shape the vision. If he means it more as an inspiration like "involve these elements with it," then we may be able to give the motion judgment Chamber, but there is also something about tax debts, for example. That is, of course, a sensitive issue. So there are a few things in there that aren't going to happen so literally. However, we are looking at the capital position of companies and the extent to which own funds suffer from the fact that the crisis is long-lasting. I refer to what I said about it at last Friday's press conference. It may also come back in tomorrow's debate. Of course, there is a lot to say about the specific issue of tax debts. That is extremely sensitive. With that element in this form, I have to make a reservation anyway. But if it is meant to be 'think of these elements, to a greater or lesser extent', and I do not see Mr Omtzigt leaving the Chamber angry now, then we can also give this motion the judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u447	I should like to take a look at Mr Omtzigt to see if he can agree with this interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u448	The motion calls on the government to 'take up' the subjects mentioned in the motion. That also gives a certain policy space. I understand very well that we are not going to cancel all the tax debts, because then we will have another problem. But the government has already said that it is going to tackle the problems, or at least try to do so, because this is going to be very difficult. So I don't think there's much light between what the Prime Minister said and what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u449	Then the motion gets to part No. 167 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u450	Agreed. The motion in part No. 168 I must advise against. The current agreements in the coalition agreement are balanced in the eyes of the cabinet. This also means that, in addition, the burden on business is increasing. We do not therefore see any reason to change the coalition agreement in this respect. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can say one last thing at the end of this debate on the declaration of government. This is really the final part of the formation, yes, we are going to miss the formation, and at the same time the parliamentary beginning of this new cabinet period. We have already said that the duration of the formation will undoubtedly continue to be the subject of an evaluation by the Chamber. I believe that this has already been decided, and of course we are happy to help in this from our experience. It is now up to the cabinet to start working on the agreements and to involve the House of Representatives in all respects, of course with respect for everyone's position. We know that, in addition to the corona pandemic, Mr Klaver mentioned that yesterday, and I started doing so this morning, there is another background against which we are working here, and that is the growing tension in geopolitical relations. This means that sometimes it can be even more important that we try to keep the atmosphere together. We can sometimes disagree horribly, but what we have done yesterday and today for 95% of the time so I have experienced it is to debate it out of respect and from listening to each other's arguments. I think that's important, too. That has shaped and kept the country together in the past. We are considering two historical facts this year. Maybe I can call it in after all. Indeed, Mr Van Haga, I am a historian; you rightly reminded me of that. This year we are considering the liberation of Den Briel by the geuzen in 1572, and of course at the turning point in 1672, the Year of Disasters. 1572 was a turning point in the Eighty Years' War and the Ramp Year was the moment we were attacked by France, England and a number of German territories. Fortunately, we are not facing these very big challenges. But to work out the coalition agreement, to prepare the Netherlands for the future and, at the same time, to shape the corona policy with a sensible course, while keeping an open eye on the extremely precarious international relations, which I believe will be important in the coming months, as the Germans call us. I very much look forward to seeing us all as we are on this side of the Chamber, because this applies to the whole cabinet's dialogue with Parliament. We will always try to see whether we can achieve broad support with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u451	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would also like to thank the other directors who have been with us for the last two days and who have worked in the background, as well as all officials. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the people who have been watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u452	We're gonna vote. The political groups have indicated that they need about 35 minutes to prepare themselves. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u453	Mr. Chairman. I believe that Mr Azarkan has indicated that he is going to put to the vote a motion that was previously held. I don't think it's been judged. If that did happen, what was the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u454	That's standard in the new governance culture: Judgement Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u455	I think that was the request to hold the motion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-19-tweedekamer-6.u456	We're gonna find out. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.15 p.m.
