ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is a brief debate following the oral consultation on the Environment Act on 21 June. I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. Mr Janssen asked to speak on a point of order. I give the floor to Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We received a decision note in the Minister's letter. In that decision note, passages were covered with an appeal to the Open Government Act. Now we are here in Parliament and not in the newspaper. It is therefore the duty of information under Article 68 of the Constitution. As a matter of order, I would like to put one question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Can the House accept Mr Janssen's request that a question be put to the government before the debate? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to Mr Janssen behind the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr President. As I said in my order proposal, we have received a decision paper. Decision notes were introduced last year to monitor the decision-making of the Minister and what advice he received. Officials' names are being wiped out; this is common practice. Now a whole piece of text has been painted away. We would like to take note of the text that has been drawn up. So far, despite contacts of the Registry, this has been refused several times. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to send the unpaved text to this Chamber as soon as possible, with reference to Article 68 of the Constitution, the obligation to provide information, so that, in the second term, we can still include the information that we obtain from it in the debate. I hope the Minister will respond positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u6	Good day. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for Mr Janssen's question. I actually understand the question. It is a decision-making note, a decision-making note that comes before me, as a semi-trailer to a letter of inquiry which I am expected to sign for transmission to the Chamber. In addition, a number of sentences have been wiped out. The explanatory statement also lacks the reason that that passage has been wiped out. It can be described under the heading of political context. It is therefore out of context to draw up what kind of sentences that will be. It is sentences that are about the political process, so about the sounding. This is part of the normal political process, and it must also be possible to do so without being visible to everyone I have had contact with. Members of Parliament must also be able to count on confidentiality. That is why I painted this part in order to protect the political process. In the end, I think it is in the interests of the Chamber to maintain that confidentiality. Of course, the notes are just made public where they can, but I really do want to leave these sentences painted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Minister. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. I maintain my request for a few minutes in order to deal with this. Our First Chamber stands for careful decision-making. As far as my group is concerned, this debate is already a wonderful exception. It is a debate following oral consultations in order to be able to table a motion in the first period. We don't know this guy here. That has a precedent effect. So I would also like to hear from our chairman whether this is a possible form from now on, in which a committee can decide to organise a debate following an oral discussion. The only purpose of this debate is to table that motion. We also have minimal explanations. A majority of this Chamber would like to table this motion in order to state that they are going to suggest that they launch the introduction on 1 January 2023. My group wonders whether we have learned, from all the evaluation reports we have had around the PAS and around the premium affair, that we should organise our parliamentary process in an orderly manner and in particular about complex legislation, such as what we are talking about here. More than a suggestion for entry into force will not produce the motion, because there is an overwhelming majority in this Chamber who finds and states that the KB cannot be beaten until we have a positive opinion from the ICT Review Advisory Committee. That report will not be available until October, and until then the implementation practice will not have any clarity either. This is a sloppy parliamentary process, which unfortunately is not new to this law, but it is inappropriate. It remains responsible and careful to do it differently. We consider this to be important in this law as well. This decision paper, in which the political context has been removed, is an example of all the unclear information that we constantly see in the handling of the Environment Act. This isn't the first time, but it should be the last time. I therefore ask the Minister first of all to share this note unpainted with us for the second time. Personal information may stay away, but we do need this content. Then to the content of the decision. Our analysis is as follows. The minimum entry into force requirements have not been met. Temporary alternative measures are being used, but a significant part of these temporary alternative measures still need to be delivered. Deloitte has carried out research into the implementation of the measures of the ICT Review Advisory College and notes that the main advice has not been followed, namely on critical path planning. The intensive chain test period to remove the errors from the system would be ready before 1 July so that the local authorities could test for six months. That was not achieved, because this intensive chain test period continues after 1 July. This is all against the background that more and more people are reporting anonymously and familiar with abuses about implementation and worrying signals about the transmission of critical information. But not only the state of the DSO is problematic. The entire implementation chain is under enormous pressure. There are thousands of vacancies in the spatial domain at local authorities, but no fundamental addressing of the problems in the environmental services has yet begun, as Van Aartsen has noted. By not clarifying the date of introduction or postponing it, municipalities are unable to put their municipal budgets in order. The NEPROM has sent us a letter in which they say crystal clear that they are unable to prepare their plans. And they say: if there is no decision today on introduction as of 1 January, then postpone the law for a year. The BOVAG, which also has to work with the practice, has also raised the issue of implementation problems and is deeply concerned about the friendliness of the DSO to business. The Quality Assurance Act, which is in line with the Environmental Law, still has major implementation problems that have not been resolved. The Council of State is therefore talking about a very risky path if we are to introduce it on 1 January. They already have a double workload and predict that it will continue to grow and that the mountain will become irresistible. So the acceleration the minister wants won't happen. The motion before us today does not take account of all these points and does not review the implementing elements on which we in this Chamber should be examining and for which we should stand. That is why we are very critical of the way things are going. It is a Hague compromise, in which opponents and supporters express their negative views on our solution that we have come up with here. I have therefore advised my group to vote against this motion, because we consider the justification, in particular the support from the cabinet, to be too weak. This does not mean that we do not support the applicants in their ruling on the guarantees requested. We will also keep the Minister's commitments in the oral consultation: a survey of implementation practice, a final interim report and independent review. I see Mr Van der Linden standing, but I don't know if...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u9	I would ask you to complete your term first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u10	In addition to the questions on the decision-making note, I have a number of other questions for the Minister. Will he promise that the cabinet and the programme organisation will not interfere in any way with the design and results of the research of the ICT Review Advisory Committee and that they will confine themselves to providing requested information? I ask this because there was an earlier stage of discussion between the Ministry and the Advisory College. That's when an investigation was stopped. I think it would be a good idea to avoid that. I would like to hear from the Minister what criteria he himself is going to apply in relation to the report of the advisory board, regardless of the criteria we apply here in the Upper Chamber. What minimum requirements does the cabinet itself impose on the implementation of the Environment Act in October? Is there a scenario in which the cabinet, on the basis of a wide range of sources of information itself, concludes that the implementation practice is not yet ready for implementation? And if so, what is being thought of? And is there any possibility that you're going to look beyond just the DSO? Mr President, this was my input. I sincerely hope that we will have the decision-making paper. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u12	I have a question for Mrs Kluit. She indicated that she felt it was inappropriate that we now have a debate and tabled a motion and made statements. Why do you think that? I thought you said we had a weekly speech in the Chamber. In addition to legislation, we also have policy debates, in which many motions are tabled, with statements and requests. So my question is: why do you think that is inappropriate in this case, on a topical issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u13	Because there are other forms for that. There is an interplay debate for that, for example. We normally have debates here on concrete legislative proposals. We have this debate following an oral discussion. There was no legislation under that. As a committee, we have made a broad statement in the House that we do not want to have a debate on the royal decision, because we do not think that the practice of implementation is yet ready. We therefore have a debate here in connection with an oral discussion. That's the first reason. The second reason is that we also have the use of talking to each other before we table motions. But we are holding the debate now. I know the motion by e-mail, but I don't know if it's changed. I have to keep my story now without formally knowing the motion that is being filed. That's a sloppy form of talking to each other. So that's where we do something crazy. I like it when we stay focused on our procedures in our Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u14	I have two comments to make, first of all on the first point. In addition to legislative debates, we have regular policy debates, such as the state of the rule of law and how our internal governance is organised. So we have regular debates that are not about legislation, including motions for resolutions. Then there is the second point. If you say you want to respond to a motion, perhaps you should have indicated that you wanted to be a little lower on the list of speakers. Then you could have responded right to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u15	This is not a policy debate. If we had held a policy debate... But no, it even became a two-minute debate, which is said to be: it does not take long and the input can be limited. So it is certainly not a policy debate in which we peel our opinions and see how things are going and where we are going. I wish I had. It is a hugely important law, which is going to have a lot of impact and which we all have very serious concerns about. Let us not forget: we all have the oral consultation that has made it very clear that we have the same concerns about how it is going in practice. We do not disagree on that. So I would have liked to have talked about that. But this is not such a debate. If we were to refer to this as a policy debate, it would of course be far too short to announce that debate a week in advance. You want to be able to exchange views with parties and get ideas from practice. That's just what time was missing. Well, then it has to be different in preparation. We are now creating a predecent for this. I am not necessarily negative about it, because I see opportunities for this, but that does not mean that it has a good place in our current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. You also asked me a question about this debate. I read in the brief notes from the committees of IWO, EZK and LNV of last week: 'The committees decide to invite the President of the Chamber to hold a short plenary debate in order to give an opportunity to table one or more motions'. That is not a precedent, because Rule 73 (1) of the Rules of Procedure simply provides for such a debate, even without written preparation. But it is not common; that is absolutely true. That's in answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u17	Mr President, thank you for that answer. Let's all note that we can do this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u18	It has been possible for 200 years, as long as the majority of the Chamber supports it. I shall now turn to Mr Otten of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we agree with the observations made by the previous speaker that it is a rather wondrous course of action. We are also considering what further we will do with regard to the pieces in the note that have been painted away. Mr. Chairman. "Iceberg ahead! Iceberg ahead!" The captain has been warned, loud and clear, but the course is not changed. The unsinkable Environment Act remains at full power on the verge of disaster, with full force ahead. "I don't see any iceberg, so he's not there, and if he is, we'll just sail right through it!', The captain calls against his crew. And to the second mate, Captain Hugo, says, "If you do see an iceberg, you lie that there is nothing to see. Because that's what I hired you for." Mr. Chairman. Today, for the umpteenth time, we are debating the introduction of the Environment Act. First of all, I would like to register myself to be heard in a few years' time by the future parliamentary committee of inquiry, which will undoubtedly be set up under this disastrous Environment Act. "If it ain't broke, don't fix it," I said two and a half years ago, on January 28, 2020, when I warned extensively about this unfortunate prestige project. I would like to refer to this, so that it can be done in the Acts, in order to facilitate the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the Environment Act. This minister has now promised local authorities a dowry. A dowry, how do you make it up! A third-rate finding of a second-rate doctor. An inheritance under property description, that would be a better name for this dowry. A legacy that you can reject if there are more debts than assets in it. A dowry of no less than 11,000 existing rules and decisions, where local authorities can shop at random, to the fullest extent possible, so as to create maximum uncertainty among the citizens, to the maximum degree of legal uncertainty and to the extent that no one in the Netherlands really knows what he is up to. The distrust of the Dutch on the board has already fallen considerably, but apparently not bad enough according to this cabinet. It will and must sink to the absolute soil, is apparently the judgment. Unfortunately, this First Chamber is apparently unable to stop this legislative monstrosity, this mother of bad legislation. The people here who often talk about the role of the First Chamber, who should, above all, assess the quality and feasibility of legislation, are once again being blundered by Minister De Jonge's cart and are going along this hopeless path. It is a mistake that this minister, who bears a great responsibility for the growing distrust in Dutch society, has now, by his inimitable corona policy, with which he has done this country an enormous disservice, begs us with similar beautiful talk and false promises. You cannot fool all the people all the time. Does this minister really think that we will continue to swallow these sales talks endlessly for sweets? The Minister has now submitted the motion "start signal Environment Act" through his CDA partner Rietkerk, in order to facilitate the irresponsible introduction of the Environment Act through the back door. It is very unfortunate that these kinds of antics and tricks are now being taken to push forward the introduction of this opportunityless prestige project knowingly and knowingly. Rearranging the deck chairs on the Titanic, that's what this minister is doing. Some groups are offered a nice plush chair by the Minister and think that they have done quite well for themselves. Only, the course is not shifted and the iceberg is getting closer and closer. And then they go on their beautiful plush deck chair to the bottom of the ocean. Mr. Chairman. This First Chamber shouldn't be sent into the legal woods with tricks and tricks. That is why we are tabling a motion. That is the motion "stop introduction of environmental law" which reads as follows. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of the Environmental Act will lead to serious legal uncertainty among Dutch citizens and companies and that legal protection will be seriously endangered if this Environmental Act is introduced;]] [[Whereas the President of the Court of Justice of the Council of State also warns of the major risks posed by the introduction of the Environment Act on 1 January 2023;]] [[Whereas the ICT of the Environment Act is totally out of order and that there are very serious problems in the implementation of the Environment Act by the municipalities and that the advance of a final decision on the implementation of the Environment Act makes these problems unmanageable;]] [[states that the principle is that the Environment Act should not be introduced on 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-DY]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. That was our contribution to this short debate. We hope this First Chamber will come to its senses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u21	I have a question for Mr Otten, who, incidentally, in the past supported the nitrogen law here and helped a majority in this house for a plush chair and a selfie with the Prime Minister. The Environment Act makes the procedures easy to do large-scale housing. We have a huge housing shortage in this country. At the time of the nitrogen debate, Mr Otten's argument was that housing was in danger of being locked up. The Environment Act will make it easier. So why can't you agree at that point when you were so excited about the nitrogen law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u22	I would advise Mr van der Linden to talk to some people in the construction sector. I believe you have some contacts in your congregation. What I hear from a lot of people in project development, construction, etc. is: when this law is introduced, we are first in trial for five years or ten years about who is going to what, what license is or is not applicable, and about that dowry. One city takes this, the other city takes that. It's going to be a total mess, a soup of all kinds of different decisions. That is not going to promote housing at all. In fact, the only thing that promotes this is that the roll-out of the windmills that are not so popular with you is greatly facilitated. Without adequate legal protection, windmills can be dropped everywhere per AMvB. So no, it's the other way around. Then, unfortunately, Mr Van der Linden did not understand how this is going to work out in practice, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u23	Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u24	...that's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u25	I think I speak more developers than Mr Otten. They're certainly not all as negative as he's sketching now. That really is a selective view. It is true that spatial procedures are being shortened, including for wind turbines. But spatial procedures do not promote wind turbines. That's what politicians who've been elected do. So in municipalities or provinces where there is a very strong urge for wind turbines that will go faster. But if residents choose differently, it won't go any faster at all. That is my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u26	The Environmental Act extends the participation component. Project developers need to do a lot of participation and municipalities need to ask this too. At the moment, most of the planning procedure is in the lead, before it ends up in court. Does Mr Otten agree with me that precisely because of this not clearly defined large participation phase, the Environment Act will lead to enormous delays in housing and that acceleration at the back will never correct that never?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u27	Yes, I couldn't agree more. I could not have summarized it better than how Mrs Kluit does it. In this case, Mrs Kluit has a lot more realism than Mr Van der Linden of the Nanninga Group. So we're totally in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u28	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Rietkerk. Mr Rietkerk is from the CDA, but if I am well informed, he will also speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Mr. Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I speak on behalf of all those groups, but not on behalf of 50PLUS, for the writings. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on For the Environment Act and its intention, including faster and better decision-making on projects in the physical environment, with participation in advance and not afterwards, with an equal information position between citizens and government, with better cooperation between the different governments and with transparency about rules and decision-making, this First Chamber is widely supported. We note that the implementation practice, water boards, provinces, municipalities and environmental services, want more clarity on the date of 1 January 2023. These executive decentralised parties have insisted that this clarity should be available to citizens and businesses, including SMEs and competent authorities, before the summer and that the date of introduction they want is 1 January 2023. We are aware that on 1 January 2023 not everything will work according to the intended final picture. There is transitional law for executive, decentralised parties. There are also temporary alternative measures and IMPO, so that the provision of services to citizens and businesses and the urgent development of areas are not at stake. That's our common condition. We are tabling a motion to allow for six months of practice with administrative safeguards with co-governments, where the results of the update of the AcICT Advisory Commission in October 2022 are important, and where the urgent testing of the functioning and stability of the DSO chain is discussed, on the basis of the information available then, and where the phased introduction of the plan chain component is possible, where competent authorities can still use existing systems for a long time, and where the entry into force of the Environmental Act on 1 January 2023 is and will continue to be the starting point, so that the competent authorities can organise their preparations and the implementation is not delayed. This is without prejudice to the fact that in autumn the First Chamber will hold a plenary debate on the royal decree final introduction of the Environment Act as of 1 January 2023. Partly on the basis of the information, advice and reports to be provided, the political groups will give a final assessment of the current RB. We shall now proceed to the text of the motion. The: Mr Rietkerk, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Klip-Martin, Mr Verkerk, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Dessing, Mr Frentrop, Mr Bezaan and Mr Raven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Environment Act provides the necessary tools to address the major physical challenges in full and can significantly shorten spatial procedures;]] [[noting that in its mid-term report on 16 June last, Deloitte noted that improvement actions advised by the ICT Review Advisory Committee were largely set in motion and that both the licensing chain and the applicable regulatory chain function were stable;]] [[Whereas spatial challenges and services for citizens and businesses should continue to be well facilitated and ensured after entry into force;]] [[Whereas the domes of municipalities, provinces and water authorities wish to continue to apply the date of 1 January 2023;]] [[Whereas the phasing-in for the part of the planning chain is possible through the deployment of temporary alternative measures, allowing competent authorities to continue to use existing systems for a long time on entry into force of the planning chain component, allowing area development to take place in all cases;]] [[Notes that the entry into force of the Environment Act on 1 January 2023 is and will continue to be the starting point so that the competent authorities can organise their preparations and implementation is not delayed;]] [[Notes that in October 2022 the Advisory Committee on ICT Testing (AcICT) should issue an updated opinion with a view to its entry into force on 1 January 2023 (elaboration will be carried out through the President on behalf of the First Chamber);]] [[calls on the government to provide progress information from the inter-administrative programme on performance, stability, integrated chain tests and temporary alternative measures in October, with the aim of informing the First Chamber of the results of the tests and the improvements of the chain that are thus organised for entry into force on 1 January 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-DZ]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mr Rietkerk referred to a phased introduction. The Council of State has previously indicated that it considers the introduction of the Environment Act to be very problematic, with different authorities taking different positions in the implementation of the Environment Act. How am I supposed to see this motion in that light? Has the Council of State examined this, or has it been asked what it thinks of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u31	The Council of Justice at an expert meeting not only called for the introduction but also for the idea that it should be applied. That was December last year. We will also consider in the progress reports in October whether this is the same or not. So far, the Council has spoken in favour of justice, both on paper and orally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u32	Mr Janssen, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u33	Since 2015, since the Hoekstra motion, we have asked the government not to settle two issues in one legislative proposal, so that each has the opportunity to form a political judgement on each of the elements. Why did Mr Rietkerk choose in this motion to do so? We, as SP, are in favour of examining the ICT Review Advisory Committee, but we will not be able to vote in favour of this motion, because it also contains parts that we are opposed to. Why did you choose this and not to include the subjects in separate motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u34	There are several considerations in this motion and also different statements. They all have to do with the environmental legislation and its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u35	Mr Rietkerk and the others seem to assume that these temporary alternative measures are already in place, have already been tested and comply with them. My question to Mr Rietkerk is whether he has also spoken to people from the field who are dealing with these temporary alternative measures. I have such a person here and who says: the construction surfaces cannot be indicated, function marking is not possible, construction markings are not possible, figures are not possible; everything must be stopped under area marking and so on. My question is: are Mr Rietkerk and the others aware of this and how, if it all goes wrong, does he consider that at least those alternative measures could be helpful?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u36	Both the transitional right and the temporary measures - IMPRO - will be included in the debate we are having in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u37	I have one question for Mr Rietkerk. In the sense of the ICT Review Advisory Committee, he indicates that the elaboration of the entry into force is carried out through the Chairman on behalf of the Upper Chamber. Can he clarify this sentence? The sentence doesn't work. What does he mean by the role of the chairman of the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u38	It is true that the chairman of the Lower House and the chairman of the Upper Chamber on behalf of these Chambers, or the minister himself on behalf of the Cabinet, can order an advisory body. The proposers wanted to make it clear that the Upper House is in motion and that it wants to direct it. That's why there's a phrase.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u39	I have just heard in the recitals that the starting point is and remains that the introduction date is 1 January 2023. I would like to have some explanation of the word'stays'. I have a question for Mr Rietkerk and the other authors. We are having a debate here in October. The question is whether this is still a serious consideration, if you are already saying that the starting date is 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u40	It's a yes-mit formulation. That is why it is so formulated, with the intention that what the fellow governments want and want to make happen in October will be the case. That's why it says "is and stays." It's a yes-mit formulation. We will have a serious debate here on the basis of the information we then have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u41	Thank you. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I ask for a short respite, because the decision note was not in my original registration time. It won't be long, but I'd like to say something about that. 5 April, my colleague Beckerman filed a motion in the Lower House, in which she said: the Environment Act is complex; let's not rule out delay. The Minister said in response: unspeakable, the delay does not come, done, period out. I asked that again in the written round in May. Then the answer was different. Then it was said: we are going to make an effort to ensure that everything is going to be okay, but I cannot rule out any delay, and if it goes completely wrong, it is a matter of decisive administrative action when I intervene. That's something else. My question is: what happened between 5 April and May? I did not receive an answer to that in the oral consultation, although I had asked. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State warns that the introduction of the Environmental Law is a major danger for both the land use and the energy transition as well as the declaration of nitrogen. Any project of any size will land at the Council of State. It says: that will be a problem, because everything that was legally black and white is now being turned grey for the next decade. My question is: will the Minister explain this? After all, the Environment Act is not going to solve everything. In the oral consultation, the Minister indicated that he would come forward with a new legislative proposal to limit objections and appeals. He wants to go to shorter procedures. What then remains if this is the fate of the Environmental Act: on the front a non-binding participation and on the other hand a restriction on legal protection to raise objections and appeals? What does the Minister have in mind here? I would like to get a more detailed explanation of this, because I find these alarming reports, especially if they are consecutive. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the decision note. The Minister says: I do not want to make it public, because it is a political probe. I would like to say: read last year's press release again and read what was written about that decision note in roaring lyrics. Everything would be followable. Personal policy concepts also became followable, only the individuals were anonymized. Decision notes are made to become public and also to inform the Chamber so that we can clearly follow what has happened and how the Minister came to the decision. Political probes could be part of that. How a minister came to a decision is playing a role. Political discomfort is not a ground for refusal under Article 68 of the Constitution. The Minister insists on his refusal, without a valid ground. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The: Mr Janssen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Otten, Mr Fiers, Mr Bezaan and Mr Kluit proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the First Chamber has received a decision paper in which the text has been deleted;]] [[noting that, pursuant to Article 68 of the Constitution, each Member of Parliament has the right to receive that information as requested by it;]] [[calls on the Government to send immediately to the First Chamber the unpainted version of the decision note so that this information can be involved in the second period of the negotiating debate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-EA]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u43	Unfortunately, I haven't had time to ask the other colleagues for an opinion. Can I finish all the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u44	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u45	... say that I really think this is a very important point? I will not let this go until that information has been provided. I would ask the Minister to respond to the motion in the first term. For the rest, I am of course curious to know what the President thinks about the way in which the Minister deals with Article 68 on the obligation to provide information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u46	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Fiers on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm starting positive. The PvdA welcomes the consensus of this Chamber to want an independent ICT judgment prior to final decision-making. By the way, we have more concerns than just the DSO, but that is not what we are talking about today. Today we are talking about the'start-up environmental law' motion, which, according to the authors, gives clarity. In order to avoid misunderstandings, this motion does not clarify the date of introduction. We will give that clarity in October. So the motion isn't a starting signal for environmental law. Last week we got a lot of signals from performers, by the way, from supporters and opponents of that date of introduction, that this motion is causing great uncertainty, uncertainty until just before the date of introduction and also uncertainty about the Quality Assurance Act for Building. Someone suggested in an e-mail to change the title of the motion to "start signal execution schaos Environment Act." My question to the proposers is therefore: are you also approached and how do you weigh all these signals? This brings me to the most important question of this very brief contribution: on the basis of what information will we decide here in October? In addition to the positions of the domes, I need to get a good and objective picture of the implementation practice in October. I am therefore pleased that the Minister, in the oral consultation, has agreed to come forward with the survey of the experience of the competent authorities. If I understand correctly, that survey has already been carried out several times. I've been looking. I found two old reports, from 2017 and 2018. I therefore call on the Minister to clarify this survey. How does the Minister ensure that he and we get a good and reliable picture of this implementation practice in October? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The PvdA provides great uncertainty with the adoption of this motion. For now, we are curious about the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u48	Thank you. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the painted passage. A motion has already been tabled. As far as confidentiality is concerned, I have always understood that any confidentiality concerns officials. It is not clear to me that the confidentiality of Members of Parliament would be at stake. In any case, I would like to ask all Members of Parliament present if this is the Members of Parliament who have spoken to the Minister to state here that they do not have a problem with this confidentiality. Well, at least that's settled. When we talk about dualism, we are talking about something that has nothing to do with dualism. Then the mystery. Mrs Kluit has already said that we regularly feel that we are not fully informed and that we are not properly informed. We have just been asked: what is this survey that the Minister is planning to carry out? There's a lot of uncertainty about that. Our group has received many e-mails from people from the field. These people say, "Take the people who have to do it in the survey." From the oral consultation I got the idea that the Minister said: it should not be a complaint. Then I think: let all the yes marbles be surveyed by the Minister and then all those who are really critical can use the hotline we have opened. I'm sure there's gonna be a lot there. It is also clear that there is so much criticism in the workplace. The letter from the NEPROM actually says: postpone it for a year. Everyone feels in their water that it will not be all cake and egg of course in October. That's God's impossible. In fact, we're about to have two months before officials take turns on vacation. They have all of September to set things up. In October we get... So there won't be much different than now. Now, if you look at what each of us gets from the workplace in our own way, there is still complete chaos at the moment. There is no provision for that chaos to be resolved. The next thing is very important. The Minister expressed this in the oral consultation. The Minister said, "Don't be afraid, because we always have those temporary alternative measures." My question to the Minister is this: what shows that these temporary alternative measures are also working? Which shows that this has been tested? What shows that the officials who have to work with them say: yes, we can work with that? What shows that if these temporary alternative measures have been applied for a period of time and the Environment Act is about to work, the conversion to that other system will run flawlessly? Those questions still reign with me. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The Chairman of the Administrative Court section of the Council of State has expressly warned that the introduction of the directive on 1 January is actually risky. Why don't I hear from the Minister that he has a different judgment and that that is based on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u50	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? Mrs Moonen on behalf of D66. Mrs Moonen, I will give you one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. According to the D66 Group, the Minister wrote a clear letter. It contains clear passages on what the Minister will deliver for the autumn debate. I refer, for example, to the AcICT test Integral Chain Tests. The D66 Group supports the Minister with his letter and also supports the Minister's intention to clarify the situation to local authorities by leaving the starting date of 1 January 2023 on a provisional basis. The D66 Group finds the motion factually confusing and therefore unnecessary, given the excellent letter written by the Minister. Furthermore, the D66 Group believes that real attention should be paid to the implementation problems. So much for my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u52	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. There is a question for you from Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u53	Is Mrs Moonen prepared to change her assessment of the motion when the Minister says that he himself considers that motion to be valuable, including towards the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u54	No, because there are a number of things in the motion that we find really unclear and confusing. For example, the motion states that "elaboration takes place through the chairman on behalf of the First Chamber." I just asked a question about that. In fact, the assignment is carried out through the chairman. All this type of business. So our group cannot support this motion for these reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u55	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. I find that the minister needs 15 minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 3.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u56	The next item is the continuation of the short debate following the oral consultation on the Environment Act on 21 June. We are now ready for the Minister's answer in the first term. I give the floor to the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u57	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. It is good to be able to continue the oral consultation with each other today. I would like to speak a few introductory sentences and then comment on the motions that have been tabled and on a single question that has been asked. Let me begin with the beginning that I also chose in the answer in the oral consultation, namely Mr Otten's statement: if it ain't broke, don't fix it. That is a wise word, which should perhaps be repeated a little more often here in The Hague. But in this case, I don't think it's going to work. At least I would never dare the thesis: it ain't broken. With 26 laws, 60 AMvBs and 75 regulations, we have created a very dark forest with each other throughout environmental law. Procedures take a long time, too long. An important reason for the slow development of the area is precisely the complexity and ambiguity that we have organised with each other. That has also been the view of a very broad majority here in this house when adopting the Environment Act. Only two groups voted against at that time and voted in favour of a very large majority. That was also the view when we voted on the introduction law. There was also a large majority of 53 seats in 2020. So "Whether or not the Environment Act?" is a question that has already been dealt with, which has been answered by a large majority in several instances. What we are talking about here is whether it is wise to introduce the law on 1 January next. I understand that, because it is a big law, a big law, in the context that the municipalities already have an incredible amount of work to do and the implementation process is proving to be tough, especially as regards ICT development. That has been the reason for a number of delays, so I understand that not only does the First Chamber want to check the quality of legislation, it still has one of the most important tasks of the First Chamber, and you have done so, but you also want to check the implementation side. I understand that you say: we have to be absolutely sure before we say "go." At the same time, I would also like to say that clarity is actually part of that care towards implementation practice. That has to do with all the work that has yet to be done. Municipalities need to know where they're headed. That is why I have outlined a timetable following the oral consultation I had with you and what I myself intend to do. This is actually divided into two key concepts. The first is clarity. We really need to clarify the implementation practice that the introduction will take place on 1 January. If you are alderman in the spatial domain and you want, for example, to guide your new empty regulation through the board, it is nice if you know what date that is for at all. If you are project leader and are in charge of implementing the Environment Act, and you need to excite and motivate your club and keep the good people at work and fill vacancies with the best people in this field, then it is wise that you know what date you are working towards. Leading a complicated implementation without a clear end date is really unwise. It's not going well. You'll lose the energy. Then you lose the power needed to properly appear on the start line on January 1st. That's one. Two is careful. What should be going well on 1 January anyway? That is the urgent development of the area; it must be done well in any case. The second is everything citizens and businesses will have to deal with from 1 January: licensing. Everything related to licensing must work, because otherwise the services of the municipality in the spatial domain are no longer in order, and that is not good. No one's really worried about that last one. You do see flaws in beauty and you can still see work processes that have to be settled in municipalities, but the whole chain, including the functioning of DSO, the national ICT supply Digital System Environment Act, combined with what local software developers have built for co-governments, is just working well on the licensing side. AcICT does not comment on this either. There is still work to be done on the development of areas. You can see that one is farther than the other. There are software providers that are already fully ready and there are software providers that are not quite ready yet. But that is precisely what we have developed the temporary alternative measures for. The care we need to take towards autumn is a to give clarity and b to go through the steps needed to ensure at a good time that no more accidents can happen. We certainly know that because we have done everything necessary to support municipalities and provinces and because it appears that the temporary alternative measures for those municipalities that are not yet sufficiently ready are actually working. The temporary measure IMPRO is a bit of a technique, excuse for that, is about the data standard with which the environmental plans are to be made. It helps and works................................................................................................................................................................................................... I assume that some of the municipalities will indeed choose to do so. This makes it possible for the municipalities that opt for this phased growth, because they can also make the environmental plan for the new period with the data standard they used to work with in recent years. What we have to do is support the competent authorities and keep the finger on the wrist. What I have to do in your direction is to deliver you by October: the progress reports on connecting to the DSO, the final report of Deloitte on the follow-up to AcICT's opinions, and a survey of the experiences of the competent authorities with their implementation statements. It'll follow in September. What can I deliver in October? These are: the results of the integrated chain tests on phase one in July and then phase two in October, the policy response to the findings of AcICT, and a progress letter in which I fully inform you about the implementation and the DSO. I will send it to you in October, which will enable us to hold a debate in October. And let us be clear: I think we should be clear about implementation practice and I think we should be careful. I said that at the committee meeting. The best way to be careful is to provide that clarity today. And the very best way to provide that clarity would have been, as far as the cabinet is concerned, to beat the KB and to accord by the First Chamber that the cabinet that KB was going to beat. You have considered: no, we prefer to do so at a later date, if we have more progress information to make sure that that is a correct decision. I respect that, but it is precisely for this reason that it is very important to say very clearly to the co-governments and the market players, who are asking for this, that the date of introduction should be 1 January. That is what I said in the committee debate. That brings me to the motions that have been tabled. For that reason, I advise against the motion of the Member Otten. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber on the motion with the letters DZ, the motion Rietkerk et al., with a whole list of signatories. So I am doing so because this motion states that the entry into force of the Environment Act on 1 January is and will continue to be the starting point, because it is so important to clarify. I think that is the most important element. At the same time, I understand that you say that we want to have a meaningful debate in October on whether that is really certain. That is a 'yes, if', as Mr Rietkerk put it. I want to respond to the 'provided' as well as possible by doing everything and delivering everything I have just outlined. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the next motion. That is Mr Janssen's motion. The motion says, "Don't make those sentences out of that decision note public." I would like to explain again why I do not. I've been hesitant about that for a while. When you read those sentences, you're like, "Oh, come on, just say that; it's not that exciting, is it? That's what I'm saying, homey. And yet I won't. It is about the impact of conversations that have been there. That means that it is about the political process leading up to such a chamber debate. It is important to be able to conduct the political process in a confidential manner in the run-up to a parliamentary debate. That makes sense, otherwise we would keep all our conversations out in the open. That's not true. It's never like that. I believe that this political process is worth protecting. And so, in appealing to the interest of the State, which is an appropriate provision not to meet an information request, I am not releasing the sentences that stand here, although you might say: what is that about; it is only about the political process leading up to this debate? And yet I think it would be wise not to set a precedent. That means that I cannot comply with this request and also that I reject this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u58	Article 68 of the Constitution is not about what the Minister wants; it is about what the Minister needs. What the Minister has to do is just make it public. The issue of the importance of the State is really crazy under state law. This isn't about state security. This isn't a state secret. This is political inconvenience for the Minister. It is a matter of ministerial interest, but it is not a matter of state interest. I would like to ask the Minister once again to think very carefully about how he is putting Article 68 into practice, because he is now calling on it to do so in no way affects the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u59	I just reported that. The sentences are the impact of the political process and the political process is worth protecting. That means that I do not accept the request you have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u60	That is not a ground on which the Minister can appeal. That's not an existing legal ground. What the Minister doesn't want is not at all at all. This is what the Minister has to do. According to Article 68, this is the provision of all information, unless it is of state interest, of state secret or of state security. Please review all considerations on this subject. Look again at Paul Bovend'Hoert. This in no way affects the public interest. So what the Minister is saying here is really absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u61	I would like to add my voice to Mr Janssen. This is out of bounds. State interest is indeed about state security, AIVD information and that sort of thing. That is not the case with this kind of thing being wiped out under the guise of state interest. But I fear with Mr Janssen that this information has disappeared in the same black hole as that in which the memo on corona policy and hospitals, which was lost at the start of the corona crisis, has disappeared. It's symptomatic how this minister deals with this Supreme Court. As far as our group is concerned, that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u62	Mrs. Kluit has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mr President, I would like to suggest that we suspend for a few minutes to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u64	I am going to do that at the end of this period, but I will first see if any more Members want to interrupt. I see Mrs. Fiers. Are there any more interruptions? Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u65	I had asked the Minister about these temporary alternative measures. What shows that they work, whether they're tested or tested and so on? I haven't heard a single answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u66	Mr President, more questions have been asked. I had just come to the motions, but I would also have to answer five questions. One of the questions is that of Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u67	Then I suggest that we let the Minister finish his term before we start repeating all the questions, because then those one-off interruptions are immediately over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u68	We shouldn't want that all of us. Mr Janssen asked how we could clarify that survey. I'm confusing the SP and the PvdA, I see. What does that even say? I'm gonna think about that. Does that mean anything about me, or... That survey is certainly important. We've done a six-month survey before. It's been down a couple of times. After that, it's turned into some kind of continuous checklist. This allows municipalities to check how far they are with the introduction. So they can do this all the time, and that also reflects the need for support. In the run-up to October, I would like to ask municipalities to fill in these questionnaires with attention, especially by the people from the implementation practice, in order to be able to present a realistic picture in this way as an addition to the picture that I am trying to highlight as completely as possible in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u69	Mrs. Fiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u70	Then I'm going to dedicate my precious interruption to that. Because I called a few people and asked if they've ever seen a survey. No, I've never seen a survey. So I'm looking for... In order to prevent us from standing here again in October and having a very different picture of what the implementation practice thinks, I would very much like to see from the Minister how this survey is handled and how many people have completed it. So I hear no one's filling out a survey. Otherwise, we'll be left with a different picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u71	You did a survey to see how many people actually filled out the survey?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u72	I've been calling myself flat. I can tell you that everyone really says: you shouldn't want this, because this is no clarity at all; say 'yes' or 'no', because 'yes, if' gets us into big trouble. The people I'm asking, I've talked to 50 of them, and they all say that. So I am truly surprised that the domes and you say that everyone thinks it is a good idea. So I want to prevent us from standing here again in October and having a completely different picture. We must, therefore, in one way or another, want to get a closer look at this implementation practice. Otherwise, everyone's gonna be making some calls and having an image.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u73	First of all, about the image. I'm not saying everybody thinks it's a good idea. I say that we have very intensive contact, really every day of the week, with the domes and with those responsible for implementation there. Everyone says: giving clarity about 1 January is incredibly important. I therefore hope that the First Chamber will be able to pronounce that clarity today. That will be very meaningful, especially for fellow governments, for all those responsible for carrying out this implementation in a good way. You say: if we do a survey where we ask people who have to work with it questions of the type "How do you see it? Are you okay? What else do you need in support?', Therefore, let this be a representative survey. I would very much like to vouch for that, because I think it is right. Otherwise we will indeed have a dispute in October as to whether this is an honest picture or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u74	Maybe we could take it one more step? Can we perhaps see if an independent research agency can verify whether this is a representative sample, so that we can have an equal view of this implementation practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u75	Let me do it differently. I'll send you a letter explaining how this survey is going to take place. It is true that this must be done properly, but I am also a bit afraid to set up all kinds of new things now. We need to focus so much attention and energy on this implementation. Anything that distracts me from that, I just don't think it's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u76	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u77	If we get a letter, we'll share it and ask everyone to ask his boss where that survey is, so that it's definitely filled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u78	Very good, do that. Mr Janssen says that his colleague Beckerman has tabled a motion in the House of Representatives asking the government not to rule out the possibility of postponing the implementation of the Environmental Law. At that time, the cabinet rejected that motion. Later I said: I do not rule it out, but I do not expect it, because I do not think it is wise to postpone. You should see that in the light of the clarity that is simply necessary. We have determined with each other: what should actually work on 1 January, at least what should it do? The service to citizens must continue. There's no worries, no worries, no show-stopping care. The second thing that needs to be done is urgent development of the area. Urgent area development is an area development that should take place at least during those months. There are solutions available to use an alternative if a municipality is not ready because a software provider is not ready to do so. That is why I do not think it is wise to delay in the air, because all of this is derived from the implementation process that you have to follow with each other. Clarity that it must be 1 January is therefore very much needed. That clarity is also expressed by the Rietkerk motion. What is also necessary is that you as the First Chamber so I have understood your oral consultation also are able to keep a finger on the wrist before the KB can actually be beaten. That's the meaning of the "mits." In that light, you must also see my reaction. Then the interference with the AcICT. AcICT is an independent advisory body. We will, of course, serve them wherever they need to do their work, but AcICT is independent. Then Mr Nicolaï's question on the temporary alternative measure IMPRO: does it work? The IMPO is the data standard that is now being used. We know it works. It uses the technique and the standard that has been used over the past ten years. He was created with suppliers, with urban planning agencies that often do this work. It's technically validated. He's been tested with municipalities. Work practice says it's possible. AcICT has tested this and reported positively in the latest AcICT opinion. Moreover, the functioning of the TAM-IMRO is now also involved in the intensive chain tests, both in phase 1 and phase 2. So it's being tested permanently, but it turns out it's working. Mr Janssen was a little concerned about my statement in the oral consultation on participation. It's good to get rid of that right away. I do not intend to go into participation, because participation is simply necessary and objection and appeal is simply part of legal protection in the Netherlands. At the same time, as you will see, at the moment, I find the extent to which we see people's rights being defended as a result of the way in which we have set up our procedures somewhat distorted. The rights of people who do not want something are considerably better protected than the rights of people who simply need a roof over their heads and, for example, are on the waiting list for social housing. The rights of people who prefer not to have a protected housing facility in their backyard are considerably better protected than the rights of people who need to make use of a protected housing facility. That distortion is so distorted that I think it even affects our responsibility here to be sufficiently protective towards people who depend on our help and support to actually provide something that is a basic provision, namely a roof over your head. That is why I have thought: where we can do it, I want to shorten procedures and I also want to re-examine whether objections and appeals do not go beyond facilitating the impossibility of necessary developments. I do not want to take it away from the legal protection that is simply necessary. Let us talk about this in more detail at the moment that we have succeeded in taking that into account in a legislative proposal. Of course, it is up to you to check whether there is still sufficient legal protection. I'm all about balance. I find that balance in too many situations at the moment really distorted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u79	Are you almost at the end of your first term, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u80	One more question, from Mr Nicolaï, following the interview with the Council of State. That question was also raised at the committee meeting. I saw that interview, too. I think that article was extremely balanced, but the headline seemed to suggest that it would be wiser not to introduce the Environment Act now. But that is, of course, a political decision. In my view, the Council of State has pointed out in particular that there are stacks of procedures. But there are now also: the number of procedures has increased enormously in recent years. This has also greatly increased the workload for the Council of State. The extent to which it is feasible to meet deadlines is simply under great pressure. From this point of view, the Council of State has said: know that a new law will allow new case law to be built. I understand that, because that's all in the game when introducing new legislation. But that's also what your Chamber knew when you were a majority in 2015 in favour of the new Environment Act and in 2020, when you were a majority in favour of the Environment Act. In short, the formation of new case law always occurs when new laws are introduced. That can't be a reason not to introduce new laws. Yeah, there's a shortage of staff. Yes, there is understaffing, including at the Council of State, when it comes to lawyers. However, we are also affected by the current legislation. So that, in itself, is not a decisive reason not to introduce a law. A decisive reason would be to put pressure on the provision of public services or to stop the development of areas. But we don't have any signals for that. In fact, the lack of clarity on 1 January could be a delay in the development of the territory. So if delay in the development of the territory is our main concern in the Upper Chamber, it is very wise to say: 1 January it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u81	Thank you, Minister. Then we come to the second term of office. Mrs Kluit made an order proposal in an interruption to suspend for five minutes. You're maintaining that order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u82	Yeah, but a question hasn't been answered yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u83	You can then ask that question in your second term, because you have already consumed your interruption; we have agreed on this. I'll give you a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u84	No, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u85	Yes, Mrs. Kluit. I am not giving you the floor. You made an order proposal in an interruption. I'll take a look around to see if that order proposal is supported. That's the case. Then we'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u86	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Kluit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u87	Mr. Chairman. It remains marvellous how the Minister defines the comments of the Council of State. The Council of State has indeed said that there is a great risk that things will get stuck. We were not given any clarity today about the introduction as of 1 January 2023. I say that to the Minister, because the implementation practice says the same thing. As long as we don't have KB, we don't know what we're up to. We're not gonna hit KB today. With regard to urgent development of the area, the Minister says that it must remain in motion. The Council of State refers precisely to this urgent development of the area. It says that these major urgent tasks "are going to crash at our college because we do not have enough capacity." We did not know that capacity at the time of the Environmental Act. It was only last year that these cases doubled, and this year again. So that is new knowledge that we should also take to ourselves here. The minister says the TAMs have been deployed and they work. Well, they don't work, because the authorities can't talk to each other through the system in that authorisation. This raises a lot of questions for municipalities when we go to practice, and that creates a lot of matching issues. For example, the major maps of the provinces cannot yet be loaded into the system. This means that we do not have GIS maps with the provincial values that are, for example, in an environmental plan. Market parties, to which the Minister refers, indicate: decide on the KB today and otherwise postpone a year. Those are the real estate developers. NEPROM e-mailed that today. So I understand that the Minister is saying this, but it just doesn't add up to what is happening in practice and what is being said. Then the survey. The Minister said in the oral consultation: we carry out regular surveys. It now turns out to be checklists that could be entered as desired. I am pleased that the Minister has promised that this will be an independent survey and that people will be able to fill it out in public. Indeed, it is extremely important that the people who work in the system and who will be answering the phone will also be able to fill out how they think that the current TAMs, DSOs and other systems around them are going on 1 January. I am also grateful for the commitment that the Minister will not interfere with the content of the ICT Review Advisory Committee, either with the process or with the content. It's good that that's secured. Finally, the decision-making note. I find it inconceivable that we are talking here about the importance of the State when it comes to the political context in which the Minister has taken decisions. Maybe it's a totally insignificant sentence that's in there, maybe it's something we all know. It's a political snoop. That's not a secret, is it? We all know who is and who isn't. So how hard can it be? By not making it public, the Minister raises all kinds of questions. Perhaps it does say that the UNG did not really want to introduce it on 1 January, provided that they might still lay down conditions that the minister has not complied with, or indeed did. We won't know. Our group strongly believes that the Minister is going to take a different view on this decision. We do not do that because we think that it is such a dangerous or complicated point, but because it is about the transparency of the cabinet about how they come to decisions and the weighting that is and is not taken into account. So I sincerely hope that the Minister will come to his senses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u88	Thank you, Mrs Kluit. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u89	Mr. Chairman. We've been beaten with stupidity, but we're not really beaten. After all, the minister is very hard in denial: everything is going to be fine, we all don't understand it, anyone who objects doesn't understand it, because everything is going great. It's like the Titanic: the band played on and everyone grabbed another glass of champagne. According to the captain, nothing was wrong and it would all be okay until the iceberg showed up. What do you have to say? The minister is so hard learner that it doesn't make you feel good. Mr. Chairman. I notice here today that both Mrs Kluit van GroenLinks and, for example, Mr De Vries from my group, who comes from the real estate sector and knows a lot of people in project development and construction, agree unanimously that the construction will stop if you start to introduce this on 1 January. It's just a much too ambitious project. I am not necessarily opposed to legislative approximation, not at all, but this is too much at the same time. ICT can't do it at all, and neither can the municipalities. So it leads to some kind of paralysis at all levels. Everyone is going to wait until the case law is crystallized. "Who does what? How's that? We always did this and now we have to do it differently." That's gonna paralyze the place. For example, compare it with the introduction of the new Civil Code in the early 1990s. That's done in stages, not all at once. Forty years we've been thinking about that, too. Under the General Administrative Law it was the same story. That also happened in stages and was very well prepared. It was only introduced when it was all done and everyone knew what to do. Now it's like this. I'll say it on his CDAs: "God bless the grip: we put it in and we'll see how it goes." The Minister hopes to be the lifeboat of the Titanic. They were too few, by the way, so they will have to fight in the cabinet for who gets in the boat and who doesn't. Then the minister ends up in the lifeboat or floating on a shot between the icebergs. But I guess that's from later on. We would like to say the following. Come to your senses. Don't go bashing around like a blind horse against your better judgment. Temporize it. In any case, stop sticking to the introduction on 1 January. This leads to massive legal uncertainty and paralysis. It's gonna be a big mess. Repent, I say again to this Chamber and this Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Rietkerk, on behalf of a number of political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers, along with his very clear letter. There is broad consensus on that, I think. The D66 Group also clearly underlined this at the end of the first term. We look forward to the debate from October on the preliminary draft budget, which we have also discussed. I am using this time limit to answer Mrs Kluit's question about the phasing-in of the law, because I did not do that quite correctly. For the sake of clarity, that is not what the motion says, and I did not want to say that either. You have to introduce the law, but the technique can be phased in. I conclude with a practical example of three provinces, five municipalities, three waterboards, with sixteen to twenty permits, for a beautiful area development in the IJsseldelta. Society has had a lot to do with ambiguity, with procedure, with three or four times the Council of State, with everything that is in the existing legislation. Those inhabitants and those companies, as well as the housing that is there, are waiting not to stumble over procedures, but to speed up the decision-making process. However, the conditions which I mentioned on behalf of the proposers in the first period must be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u92	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u93	Thank you, Mr President. It is good to repeat one statement by the Minister from the oral consultation, which is: if the First Chamber has not decided on the KB in October, then the Minister himself decides to postpone. That's how loud he said it. That's clear, too. It is also a good thing that we are making that clear to the outside world here today. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the Minister's comment on appeal and appeal. It's not in the Environment Act, but it comes after that. It would be good if the people involved in the Environment Act also realized that the minister is still working on something to do with objection and appeal. The previous minister said that this will not be affected, but that there will only be something, namely participation at the front. It's a good thing people realize that. Finally, the decision-making paper. I would ask the Minister to make a commitment that by Friday, so before the weekend, he will send this Chamber a letter in which, I hope, he will release the passage on which it is concerned or give legal justification as to how his refusal relates to the state interest. That gives us the opportunity to look at that and to let others advise us. That also gives the President time to prepare himself for the question I have asked him about how he looks at Rule 68, in the light of the debate we are having today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs Fiers on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps it is good to consider in the second term that something very special is happening here in itself. I am glad that this Chamber insists that we have the full debate in October and that we will then have a judgment. The Minister then insists on the date of introduction, 1 January. It is in itself his right to do so, but this really creates implementation chaos, because it remains unclear what municipalities and developers have to prepare for. A majority of the Chamber will then table a motion, with a very confusing text on a sort of yes-mit variant. In doing so, the majority of the Chamber also assumes part of the responsibility for this chaos. I really don't see why we should do that to each other. I think it is a good idea to call the motion 'the start signal for the implementation of the environmental service', as someone whispered to me. So we are not going to support them either. I welcome the Minister's commitment to a letter on the design of the survey in working practice, because I really look forward to having the debate with you in October on the basis of equal information about this implementation practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u96	Thank you, Mrs Fiers. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, but I am still left with a question. About these temporary alternative measures, the Minister said that it has all been tested, and so on. I'm not talking about the technique. I am not talking about ICT. I still have a question for the Minister. Because the system of the Environmental Law is different from that of the current Regional Planning Act, the people who have to work with these temporary alternative measures say: "We can use the technique, but if you are going to fill it out... Construction surfaces are not possible. Function indications are not possible. Construction markings are not possible. Figures are not possible. Everything must be stopped under area designation." I've seen the sheets that do prove that. Converting to an environment plan is not possible. In short, everything has to be restored if the DSO is ever going to work. My question is: can the Minister comment on this in a letter? It's not about whether the ICT is right. The point is that municipalities say that these temporary alternative measures are unacceptable. There was also a municipality I'm not going to mention which one said: we stop those temporary alternative measures. I'd like another comment on that. Finally, Mr President. The Minister has said that at some point in every new law you run into new case law, hassle, and so on. But what did the Council of State or the Administrative Court Department actually say? They say: of course it is, but don't do it now. You come up with all kinds of challenges, like the energy transition, and so on. The Minister knows that better than we do. So don't do it now. That's all it is. If Mr Rietkerk says 'we have to make pace' and if the Minister says 'the development of the area must not be stalled'................................................................................................................................................................................. I would still like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u98	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u99	I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u100	How many minutes would you have wished for? Then I'll suspend until 4:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u101	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u102	Thank you, Mr President. A number of questions have been asked. I'd be happy to answer those questions. First of all, about elements in Mrs Kluit's speeches, Mrs Fiers and others on the issue of clarity. First of all, the need to do so. If you are now alderman in a municipality and you have to introduce a complicated law by 1 January, you need to know from the legislator that we are here together or you can count on it to be 1 January. That's one. Two. If you're project leader at a municipality, you should be able to count on politics when it comes to clarity. If you've gone through a complicated path and you've got people to hire, you need to be sure about January 1st. No one wants the First Chamber or the Minister to say: yes, there is certainty; even if there appear to be insurmountable problems in the autumn, we will continue. No one wants that. But everyone does require us to be set up so administratively that we understand, understand, feel that, if you have such a complicated law to introduce at the level of a municipality or a province, you need to be clear. I'll read that clarity in that motion. I read this out clearly, saying that 1 January is and will continue to be the starting point. If this motion is adopted, I also think that this is the clear signal that is being sent out from this Chamber in the direction of implementation practice. I think it is very important that we do this with each other here, because we may also feel co-responsible for the complexity with which municipalities, provinces and water boards have to deal. Leaving that date hanging in the air is not helpful for the implementation practice. This has also been mentioned once again by the same implementation practice. It was better to give that clarity in the form of a KB. Well, it's not. We have had that debate. So it was better to do a KB, but a motion with this statement also provides the clarity that is needed and offers "mits" to which the First Chamber also attaches. I understand, because there are still concerns on a number of points... I have indeed said, in the direction of Mr Janssen, what I said about this. So if it turns out that it is careless or not careful as of 1 January, then I am the first to say: better not. But I would like to emphasise that 1 January is an important date and that we must send a clear signal to fellow governments on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u103	I would like to refer to two things, namely the word 'clearness' and the word 'administrative'. We live in a time when we have had a number of major crises. Those crises have been evaluated: the PAS Act has been evaluated, we have evaluated around the surcharges. And it became crystal clear at that time that the parliamentary process must proceed in an orderly and hygienic manner. There's no decision until the KB's been beaten. You can't be a little pregnant; there isn't a little KB either. This Chamber said that we want to have a good debate with each other first in October about where we stand, with an independent test on ICT and so on. I've heard the whole Chamber say that again today. So if the minister wants to clarify for the governments, then it is not with this yes-mitsmotion. Because that clarity simply cannot be given. Does the Minister agree with me legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u104	It would have been better to say, "We're gonna hit that KB." My predecessor said: I am not going to beat KB until that is also the view of your Chamber. So even though the law states that hitting the KB is up to the minister, my predecessor said: I'm not gonna beat that KB until the First Chamber says it's wise to do it. I therefore keep the promise of my predecessor. That's one. Two. It was better to beat that KB and clear it up with a KB. But if that's not there, because the First Chamber says "we don't want to do that until we know for sure and if all the progress information doesn't show any show-stoppers," I have to accept that. As a second question, I asked for clarification. Because if you leave the date of 1 January in the air, I have to say that I do not think it is justified to continue the implementation process. That is also the question I put to the First Chamber in the oral consultation. If that question is answered by a motion that says 'January 1 it is', then that is the clarity that is needed to be able to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u105	I say again, and I say this in an administrative way: there is no hard date for implementation until the RB has been beaten. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u106	No, I certainly don't agree with you administratively. Administratively speaking, this motion is just speaking out of 1 January it is." And I use the word "administratively" very consciously. You seem to be working on that, but I use that word very consciously. Look, especially when it comes to the feasibility of legislation, we have to realize what is to be done by municipalities after such a law. You do, because that is what all your questions are about. But to manage this as a project leader at a municipality or a province, you need to know what you're on your way to. If you want to guide regulations through the board, there's got to be a date in there. If you're forming a team, you should be able to tell when the introduction date is. If we're going to keep all that in the air until the end of the year, there's actually no responsible implementation path possible. Clarification is therefore part of the care we have to exercise as co-legislator and as co-responsible for the implementation of that law. That's why I'm making such a point. Clarification is important. If you do not accept the motion, you will also send a signal, namely that you are afraid to commit on 1 January. And then I'll have to consider whether I still think it's justified. If you do accept the motion, you will say: yes, 1 January we find a responsible date for its introduction, but progress information shows that there are insurmountable show-stoppers in it. That's how I read the motion. That is why I hope it will be adopted. If it is not accepted, then I have another weighting to make. But if it is accepted, it is also a clear signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u107	Mrs. Kluit, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u108	My final point. I hear a lot of words from the Minister, but from a legal point of view it remains that this Chamber has said: we are not hitting the C.B. today, because we still see so many uncertainties on which we want to test independently and because we want to have a meaningful debate in October on how to strike the C.B. In doing so, the Minister is unable today to clarify the practice. My question is why the Minister does not now choose to clarify himself and choose a different route. No matter how he explains the motion himself, there is no legal clarity today or next week about its introduction on 1 January. He might want it different, but legally, he's not gonna make a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u109	The proposers of the motion must give the explanation to their motion themselves. This is the way I read and understand the motion. GroenLinks has, of course, been against the Environment Act. That's right. In 2015, she was one of the two parties against the Environmental Act. All the rest was in favor. GroenLinks was one of the two parties against. There were 51 or even 53 votes in favour of the introduction law in 2020. It was not Mrs Kluit and GroenLinks, but 53 members were in favour. In my opinion, it is my duty as a ruler to implement and implement such a law. It is my job to do so in a clear way that gives clarity to the implementation practice and also in a careful way. I think that the motion expresses both sides in an appropriate way, both the clarity of the date of introduction and the care taken. I feel comfortable with that, although I'd rather have a KB. But with this motion, too, the First Chamber says that everything must be aimed at introducing the law by 1 January, and I think that is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u110	I hear the Minister say that the motion gives clarity, so that the date of introduction is and will remain 1 January. I think it would be good if I could also call on the others to maintain this interpretation when we vote next week. I asked the authors whether we would have a serious debate in October, so the outcome could also be that the party would not continue on 1 January. Obviously a yes came up. I have also heard several colleagues say that in the corridors. Apart from the legal explanation, I would like the Minister to reflect on that. I have heard the majority say clearly: we have a meaningful debate and it is not'signing at the cross' in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u111	Of course we have a meaningful debate. Debates which are not meaningful should not be held, so of course we have a meaningful debate. I repeat what I heard Mr Janssen repeat what I myself said in the oral consultation: if you imagine that this information of progress shows an insurmountable stop-gap that is actually insurmountable in terms of care, then I will be the one who proposes not to do it. Then we don't even have to have the discussion about the KB. Then I will withdraw the proposal to the Royal Decree. That's the "mits." We always have to do that. Even if I had beaten the KB, that is my attitude to the implementation of legislation. We should not cause accidents in implementation practice. For that we have just had a few too many in recent years. So we shouldn't do that, but what we shouldn't do is let that accident happen by giving ourselves too much time to keep debating the Environment Act. In several instances, there has been a huge majority for this Environment Act. That is a democratic fact. I can't ignore that as a ruler in this post. With that democratic fact, I have to get to work. That means I have to introduce this law. In fact, if this law hadn't been there, maybe we should have made the Environment Act. Indeed, it is a very good idea not to regulate environmental law in 26 laws and in all those dozens of regulations that are underneath, but to be clear about that and to provide one law with a number of clear decisions and one ministerial regulation. That is so much better than today's practice. If the law wasn't there yet, I think it would be very worthwhile to make it. But now that he is here and has been established in several times by a huge majority by the Chamber, it is up to us to introduce him responsibly. Part of this responsible introduction is to give clarity, to give real clarity. Part of that responsible introduction is also to pull the emergency brake on your own, should there turn out to be irresponsible show-stoppers in the autumn. That's what I'll do. That's not what I'm assuming. Otherwise, I should have had another debate with you here. It's not what I'm assuming. I expect to be introduced on 1 January, because I am convinced that this should be possible. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the other questions. Then we'll go a long way into technology. Maybe that's not at all for the moment either. They're about those temporary alternative measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u112	I would like to ask you, in view of the mandate I have from the Chamber to hold a short debate, which we are currently working on for two and a half hours, to keep the answer brief. We have another debate tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u113	I'm definitely gonna do that. I'm sure it'll work, but it'll be technical. The questions relate to the temporary alternative measures using the IMPRO data standard instead of the STOP data standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u114	That can also be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u115	Yeah, sure. In the direction of Mr Nicolaï, it must be clear that he has been extensively tested. It's not just about the technique. It is now also used in area development, for example when it comes to area development under the Crisis and Recovery Act. We know that this technique works and that it works in practice according to the ideas on which the Environmental Law is based. That brings me to the point: he is working, not only technically, but also in terms of effect. And, of course, he's involved in the integral chain tests. Phase 1 is almost complete and phase 2 is coming. I will inform you of the results in October. I will, of course, report on the functioning of these temporary alternative measures IMPRO. You said, "Can I have a letter?" Yes, please, but I'll do that in the progress report, because I can do that on the basis of the integral chain tests. Then we can show it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u116	I am glad the Minister says there will be a letter about it, but I asked the Minister to answer the examples I mentioned. If the Minister can promise that, we'll deal with it by then, and not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u117	That is what I am going to do, otherwise I am quite sure that I will be rudely interrupted by your chairman, and rightly so, I think. By the way, of course, you were called by a municipality that said this. It really doesn't add up, so maybe we can get a name and a back number from that town outside the broadcast. Then we can help and support. Which brings me to the survey. I am going to send a letter on how we are shaping this survey so that we do not give cause to question the results of that survey in October. I'd like that. Then the decision note. I heard what Mr Janssen said. I like to underline once more... Especially with big words like "the importance of the State" it all sounds quite big and exciting, but if you read what it says, you would think: oh, is that it? It is simply a reflection of the views of a number of Members of Parliament who have been spoken with on the way to this debate. I do not think it is pure, not sensible for the political process to give it to your Chamber in this way. An adequate political process is indeed in the interest of the State, in the interest of its functioning here. That makes me think that I am right to appeal to that and that I am right not to give you these sentences, so these sentences paint. It is about the views of Members of Parliament. I do not feel free to reveal to you the views of Members of Parliament through the note in a decision note, which is intended for me and not for the Chamber. That's why they're lacquered. You ask: can we get that in a letter? I'd like to do that. In fact, that gives me the opportunity to discuss this with my colleagues. Of course, this isn't on its own. I'll try to do that Friday, but it might just go over the weekend. I would like to raise it in the Council of Ministers on Friday. Here crossing the bridge is also a precedent for crossing the bridge at other times. I think it's wise not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u118	I have a question for the Minister. If the Members of Parliament have no problem with that at all, if they do not find it a problem to be mentioned, is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u119	Actually, no. I knew that question would come. You could say: if those MPs are okay with that... and I think those MPs are okay with that, because nothing exciting has been said at all. It is now clear what Members of Parliament think, because we have just had the debate on this. Then you could say, "No problem." However, I find that objectionable. Let me explain. A: then it's still not up to me. You can always ask your colleagues in the debate, but it is not up to me to express a view of Members of Parliament. B: If this becomes usance, that at the end of the day these kinds of sentences can only pass unpainted, then they are no longer written down. That means that I will be getting notes in which there are only three meaningless things in the political process. There is no longer any mention of the views of Members of Parliament. That's the effect of it. Is the information provided to the Chamber then served? No. Does that mean transparency in the decision-making process? No. Only a note for decision-making has been abstracted and thus stripped of this type of sentence. Well, that's the effect. Is that the result you're trying to achieve with each other? In short, I would like to say that I really need to talk to my fellow Members in peace about this for a moment, so I will take Mr Janssen's suggestion. I am not doing this because they are exciting sentences, were exciting views of colleagues or because they were different views of the colleagues they have raised here, but I am doing this because I simply think that it is not up to a minister to express the views of Members of Parliament. I just don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u120	The main issue here is the Constitution, and that is Article 68. It is therefore not up to the Minister and his colleagues to see how they wish to interpret Rule 68. I do not need a letter on broad coordination with his colleagues and on how they see it widely desirable. I didn't ask for that either. The Minister says: I refuse to disclose this information on the grounds of state interest. I just want it to be made public before the weekend, so that we also have time to be informed about it, or that there is a legal basis why this should be counted as a matter of state interest. I want nothing more than that, and I do not want to have a full discussion with all my fellow Members. You can do all that internally. I don't need to see that now. That is the secret of the Council of Ministers, but on this decision note I only want it to become public or to be legally substantiated why this is a state interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u121	I understand the order, but I also told you how I deal with it. I have said that it gives me the opportunity to have this discussion with colleagues. I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u122	Mr Janssen is, of course, quite right, so we agree with that. If the minister hadn't removed this from his control compulsion to remove it, then probably no rooster would have crowded at it. So he's turned it into a huge thing himself. I understand they're MPs. Are we talking about members of the First Chamber? That would be important to know. From the chairman I may ask one question, so that is my question: is the piece of the decision paper on First Members of Parliament going to be painted away? Yes or no? It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u124	Is that what you're doing at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u125	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u126	Thank you. I shall close the debate and conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-28-eerstekamer-8.u127	I propose that we vote next week on the three motions tabled. Can the Chamber agree to that? So not this week, but vote on all three motions next week? Yes. Clear. Next week we will vote on the motions by Otten, Rietkerk and Janssen.
