ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office of the debate on the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in the European Union. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my heartfelt wish to both ministers in a new policy area that they will have a pleasant discussion with this Senate in the context of the new responsibility they now have, and that it will not only be pleasant today, but will continue to be so. Mr. Chairman. The way in which I speak about the European Union, and therefore the rule of law, stems from my deep conviction, but also from the value that the CDA attaches to a European Community which has rules of law, not only rules of law for the survival of the European Union, but also rules that can fulfil the responsibility for prosperity and well-being of our citizens. After all, without the rule of law and without independence and impartiality in the judicial system, injustice and corruption will not be dealt with, but civil liberties will become arbitrary and confidence in business, in the economy, and thus the material well-being of the citizen will be seriously undermined. Mr. Chairman. Although the European Union is not a government and therefore we are not a United States of Europe, we do have legal rules. Those rules are there to protect citizens, institutions and businesses. But EU rules also offer protection to Member States; I say that here too. It is not the right of the strongest or the greatest to decide; it is the right that prevails in the value community that is the EU. The four freedoms, the free movement of people, goods, capital and services, as well as democracy and democratic institutions, human rights and the rule of law, which safeguard and protect independence and impartiality of justice as common values, guarantee our prosperity and freedoms. Mr. Chairman. For many years I enjoyed working in a number of positions in the European Parliament. After the revolution in 1989, Member States, freed from the Soviet yoke, were actually prepared to do anything if they were allowed to be members of the European Community, which it was then. If they could have done so, they would have liked to have joined NATO immediately. Mr. Chairman. In 1993, criteria were established on the basis of which you would be allowed to accept countries, the so-called Copenhagen criteria. We also had a discussion about this this morning in an interrupting debate. A candidate had to have stable institutions, respect democratic principles and human rights, be a functioning market economy and adopt the acquis communautaire, as we call it. So all EU laws and rules had to be accepted at once. I remember very well that the Polish Parliament was going to vote on the acquis in one day. Mr. Chairman. The principles laid down in these criteria were actually maintained at the beginning. I would remind you that, in my interruption, I have already said that the armada of 12 Member States was not allowed to enter suddenly, but that Bulgaria and Romania were tested and came later. Nevertheless, I do not disagree with my fellow Members on this point. I note that Poland and Hungary are on the verge of giving priority to national law over EU law as far as independent justice is concerned. Because that's where the problem lies. This puts the ax at the root of the EU legal system, which means that EU law is applied equally in every EU Member State. The Bundesverfassungsgericht is often cited by Poland and Hungary. They will say, "They will do likewise." But in this Bundesverfassungsgericht there is actually a kind of subsidiarity debate. All the statements were still in line with what the EU would like. Mr. Chairman. I have read, to the satisfaction of the CDA Group, that Europe and its intention to promote democratic principles in the coalition agreement play a major role. I do not need to hide the fact that we appreciate that reference. But what does it mean, so I ask the Foreign Minister. "The European Commission is the guardian of the Treaties": does this mean that we, the Netherlands, no longer stand back, but also take a loud and clear position in the Council in favour of the Commission and support the implementation of the European Court's rulings on the protection of the rule of law? I must say too often that I saw that the European Commission was allowed to correct the distortion of law and that Member States, Germany, the Netherlands, so small and large, often tended to sit back, because they were afraid to harm their own bilateral interests. Are we going to do this differently now, I ask the Minister? Are we going to show more commitment and encourage Member States to join us in colour? Because looking away, while the clientele in Hungary is being served with European money, with which one buys electoral gain, is far too risky to tolerate. This is also seriously testing the strength of the European Union. Speaking of looking away, however understandable it may be: initiatives taken by Poland and the intentions in the Baltic Member States in the refugee file were at least not in conformity with EU rules and also not in conformity with international law. I would like to have an opinion from the Minister on this. Mr. Chairman. In order to undermine EU law, the European Commission has, in addition to infringement procedures, also the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, the State complaint procedure, the rule of law regulation and now also the conditionality instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u3	I am, of course, very pleased with Mrs Oomen's contribution. I would like to ask her if she agrees with me that it fits in with her view that the Dutch Government itself, with a number of similar Member States, is making interstate complaints against Poland and Hungary at the Court, for example if Article 7 or others fail. That instrument exists. Is that also an encouragement to the government to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u4	Yeah, I mentioned it, and I'm for it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u5	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u6	The question "what's it gonna take?" has actually been put by all the spokesmen here today. What is needed to enforce the EU's rule of law? Do you, I would ask, think of changes to the Treaty? Should and can something be done about the four-fifths majority needed to actually take sanctions? I would like to add the following question. What are the chances of a treaty change, which must also be implemented unanimously? Then I have one more question. Would it be an opportunity to see if, in supporting the rule of law, you could also do something with a partnership of the Benelux countries? Mr. Chairman. What I have to say in this debate is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. We all know how it went. The preamble to this EU Charter states that the Union is founded on the principles of democracy and the rule of law. This Charter then lists political, economic and social rights, which we support. That Charter was adopted 20 years ago, but by not going through the Constitution, it was no longer incorporated into the Treaty. With the Treaty of Lisbon, the Charter is part of the Treaty, but not as such. Article 51 of the Treaty contains a reference. It states that EU institutions and bodies must comply with the provisions of the Charter. For the Member States, the Charter has only secondary legal force, i.e. EU legislation, treaties and regulations. The citizens cannot therefore rely on the provisions of the Charter. However, the Treaty of Lisbon stipulates that Mr Van Apeldoorn has already pointed out that the Union is being advanced to join the ECHR. She still hasn't. There were objections from the Court of Justice. They seem to have been resolved now, but commitments have still not been fulfilled. I remember once I was with Mr Kox at the European Commission and we recalled that commitment. Mr. Chairman. What I would now like to know and hear from the Minister is whether he is prepared to remind colleagues of this obligation once again in the Council, where the problem is, so that progress can be made in that accession. In this connection, Mr Van Apeldoorn has also said that it would be very nice if the Foreign Minister could come to Strasbourg in a shorter time and see what action the Council of Europe needs to take. Mr. Chairman. In the years that I served as a representative of the European Parliament, and also now that I am a Member of this Chamber in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and I am monitoring Member States that do not comply with the rule of law, I have now, for example, been negotiating Russia and I am frequently confronted with criticism of our Dutch system of law. Think about independence, impartiality, the way of naming, giving information and so on. The documents in this debate, the annual report on the rule of law in the EU, as well as the Council of Europe's recommendations and recommendations. The Venice Commission, showing that we in the Netherlands do not have everything in order, when we think it is. We are democratic in spirit, but the letter is not democratic. I do not want to give an exhaustive discourse on this now, but I would like to point out once again that I was far too often in the defensive role when I had to explain the independence of Dutch judges in Turkey, Hungary, Poland or Moscow, where I was the rapporteur. I wasn't sitting there with my mouth full of teeth. I could always point to "the spirit of"..... but it was still very difficult to make that happen. How do you explain that the Minister designates the members of the Council for justice and can provide guidance to the Council? Not only does he propose, but he also has powers of direction and disciplinary action. How do you explain that in a country not called the Netherlands? How do you explain that the Council of State not only advises, but also does the administrative justice? How do I explain that? I do not feel the need to discuss it today, because that will follow in the debate of the Justice Committee, but I do think that every time recommendations are made, whatever reports are put aside. That's not good. We are now going to have a new state committee, so we are not going to have that discussion here. There will have to be a constitutional court. I hear that the abolition of Article 120 GW will also offer a great deal of relief. So, Chairman, action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u7	I am extremely pleased with this action-oriented attitude, but I would like to ask two questions. Why should this discussion be conducted in defence with Russia and not just in this house? The CDA has been part of the government for decades and also has the opportunity to have that discussion here. Why would we have to put that in the defense somewhere else? We can just feed it in our own house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u8	Then you may not have understood me correctly. I said that where I am going to advise another Member State as rapporteur, or perhaps correct it, that the rule of law is not in order, in other countries we are being reminded of precisely the things that are not in order in our legal system. That's the whole story. I believe that we have an expensive duty to ensure in the Netherlands that the omissions we have in the letter of the system are resolved. We have always had another government that has defended the democratic principle, but it could also be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u9	I understand you very well. Only, I call on you to conduct the discussion here and not in the defense against another country. For we can also judge our own rule of law and its shortcomings according to our own values. Otherwise we are going to have a debate. I was just talking to Mrs Faber about saying that I am not allowed to say anything to another country, because I myself have flaws. No, you can. But there are different levels of flaws. I'm fine with a call to work on it. Then we'll find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u10	I'm making a call right now to work on it. That's one. Two. I can take you with me sometime, if you would like, and then we can explain together why the Netherlands is a rule of law and we still have a number of failures, but that other countries that fail should not have. Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u11	Please continue your speech, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u12	Mr. Chairman. We also have the Home Secretary in our midst today. I also have a few brief questions for you. I think the answers to them will be comprehensive. The Minister of the Interior is the guardian of the democratic legal order in our Dutch system, a legal order that is no longer a matter of course in the EU, but not always in our country. There is increasing intolerance. These are citizens and groups in relation to each other, but they are also citizens who do not feel heard from the actions of the government, whether they are children's allowances or the earthquakes in Groningen and their consequences. I find with regret that this is the case in our country. In this beautiful country, too, we are dealing with the destabilisation of democracy. We are dealing with disinformation and the need to greatly strengthen the resilience of all who govern us. We're dealing with choosing and being chosen. This is now also a subject of discussion and intention for regulation in the European Union. On that point, too, I would like a response from the Minister. In the forthcoming EU Rule of Law report, which comes every year, I think that will certainly be taken into account in the chapter on country reports. How does the Minister intend to handle all these issues with fresh ideas? That's my last question. I thank the Minister in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u14	Welcome to both ministers, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Good luck in your job. We look forward to a fruitful cooperation in the coming years. I hope we can record much and good performance from you. We would like to share it with you. Mr. Chairman. The contribution of the OSF on the rule of law of the EU has been mentioned as 'A manifesto against undermining'. The purpose of today's debate is to identify, discuss and work together at an early stage on possible legal problems in the European Union. To this end, a number of documents are before the Court today to assess whether and how governance problems in the EU can be resolved. The greatest threat to governments in general, but of democratic governance systems in particular, is described in Murphy's law. It is in English, but I will quote it in Dutch. I'm sorry, I'm having air. It's not a corona. Wikipedia says, "If there are multiple ways to do something and one of those ways ends disastrously, someone will do it that disastrous way." This means, for the governance of a democratic society or organisation, that a safety net of sufficient checks-and-balances must be built in to prevent drivers from making decisions that are disastrous for society. An important task for national and international parliaments, but also for supervisory boards, supervisory boards, municipal and provincial authorities. Perhaps an open door, because there is a general sense of satisfaction that management processes are now designed in such a way that real excesses of individual drivers are usually smothered in the bud through the control net. However, in the meantime, there are administrative excesses in the world, including within the EU and within the Netherlands, which, in the eyes of some, even lead to the patterns of the 1930s, which led to the Second World War. There's a sliding scale on display. We are no longer the flawlessly functioning democratic rule of law. After all, who would have thought the current tensions between Russia and NATO were possible a few years ago? Are we slipping or is there another way back? See what happens in the Netherlands: contesting the independence of the judiciary, removing ministers as a witch, removing entire population groups, threatening tribunals to combat a virus that threatens everyone's health. Or the childcare allowance, which was made by public authorities from high to low levels of blunders and which has reduced public confidence to a minimum. These are all examples that can be traced back to excesses of directors, officials and parliamentarians who have taken a disastrous path and who threaten our democratic rule of law. This can be done in our frog country where polls show that we are almost the happiest people in the whole world. In Turkey, Hungary and Poland, democratically elected leaders are increasingly becoming despots. China suppresses large parts of its population and Russia is ruled by an oligarch. In the countries I mention, freedom of the press is under severe pressure. But look at the United States. There, the former president unleashed the storming of the Capitol, to finally make his ideal of ruler or emperor possible. Mr. Chairman. Soft healers make stinky wounds. We can't afford that. This does not maintain EU values. Does the EU actually have enough checks and balances to ensure that they remain so in the future? Democratic checks-and-balances appear to be insufficient to protect society from disastrous excesses of rulers who undermine the rule of law and destabilize societies: Murphy's law in practice. The main cause of the current tensions in the world, as in the 1930s, is the fact that society is sensitive to choosing populist leaders, who lie and deceive the people into believing that social problems are easy to solve, for example by blaming minorities or refugees. After World War II, the population managed to keep their heads down for decades and remain insensitive to these kinds of hate-songs and charlatans. But in this time of social media it is now possible for every lunatic to let go of his or her bad fantasies or conspiracy theories, without the necessary checks-and-balances. As long as this is limited to individual noise, there is nothing to worry about, but if countries or states start to abuse it for their own propaganda or destabilization of other countries, this will undermine the rule of law. For example, Britain was messed up the Brexit, some Balkan countries are destabilised and troll army daily work on Facebook and Twitter on the stabilization of ICT systems to derail Europe and the whole western world. The basis for this destabilization lies in selling lies and deception. Still, telling lies isn't really a crime. Why is that, anyway? If every lie had to be paid a fine, we could abolish all taxes. Why don't we do that anyway? Lies and deceit used to degenerate into what was called "propaganda." Goebbels thus fulfilled his prophecy: give me control over communication and I will make pigs of this people within one year. It seems as if the Netherlands and other countries in Europe are stable democracies. Yet these democracies are not sufficiently armed against undermining the rule of law, with means such as lies and deception of populist leaders. Trump told more than 20,000 proven lies in four years. So far, he has not been punished for it, while he has led to the storming of the greatest symbol of free democracy, the Capitol, and thereby the storming of Western democracies. If the President of the United States can lie with impunity, why shouldn't the Chinese, the Russians or all those other autocrats and populists around the world? Lies, deceit and propaganda are the ax to the root of democracy. There are leaders who consciously choose the disastrous, unreliable path and try to disrupt society through this form of undermining. This proves Murphy's law of existence. Cabinet, preserve the rule of law from undermining; today declare its spreading as enemy number one of all democratic states of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u15	Hello, Mr. Chairman. I mean, thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u16	I'm confused by Mr. Raven.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u17	Hello, Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u18	Mr. Raven was talking about lies, undermining, Trump, and I don't know who he was bringing in. How does he look at Prime Minister Rutte's lies? 'Cause I do have a list here. I can back it up. I can name them. I can drop that, too. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u19	I'll answer the question. You have heard in my contribution that I am not for lies and deceit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u20	May I conclude, then, that you are not so pleased with the lies of Prime Minister Rutte?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u21	Yes, you may conclude that. If I say that for leaders in the world, I can say the same here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u22	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u23	Mr. Chairman. I had a call to the cabinet. This includes designing checks-and-balances that nip this undermining in the bud. We do have checks-and-balances, but they don't work properly. I have a few specific questions to ask the Minister about the instruments that the EU has as its rule of law mechanisms. How does the Minister now look at the comments in the letter to the Chamber of his predecessor, which he included in the MFF on the rule of law regulation? To what extent does the Minister expect this restriction to prevent the imposition of financial sanctions on Hungary and Poland in particular for violations of the rule of law? Can the Minister give an opinion on the effectiveness of the instruments provided by the CPR, such as suspension of payments or financial correction? To what extent is the example of Polish zones desirable, with four of the five regions with such zones withdrawn? Do these withdrawals also have a factual difference, or is it merely a difference on paper, with the aim of avoiding financial consequences for the Polish regions concerned? Then there's the last question. There are a number of countries that have also been mentioned today, such as Macedonia and a number of other countries, which are keen to join the EU. They do their best and are actually disappointed. What's taking these countries so long? That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to welcome the new ministers to the First Chamber. With Minister Hoekstra, of course, we have had a debate before, but not yet with Minister Bruins Slot. In any case, I wish you every success in your new functions. Of course we would have preferred to see another cabinet, but that is what we are talking about next week. We're not gonna talk about that right now. Mr. Chairman. Legal status, fundamental rights and democracy in the European Union. How do you make it up? The terms in that sense are already contradictory. The Union is wallowing in its own arrogance and is constantly looking for new prey to expand its territory, without any underlying democratic decision-making. The European Council sets out the strategic lines behind closed doors. Exactly what is being discussed and how is being voted remains secret. So what the Prime Minister's vote is like is guessing. Combined with the many lies and the selective memory that we have always been uncomfortable with in recent years, this makes democratic control an impossible task. Next, the European Commission, whose members have been carefully selected on the basis of political reading, is going to implement the policy. Juncker was proud of that. Without any embarrassment, he said: "No one knows that I have rejected the last six candidates for the Commission, proposed by the national governments. Remember that governments are only allowed to make proposals. The President of the Commission is the one who accepts a candidate and assigns him responsibility." This shows our position without a shadow of a doubt. There you are with your democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. The dictatorships set up in the Brussels caverns will eventually be presented to a vicious body called the European Parliament. A paper tiger, who can only say yes or no to pre-cooked and cooked proposals. It was Rutte himself who described the European Parliament as a party committee looking for a party. And then the regulations end up on the national parliaments, which have to incorporate them into their national legislation. Many regulations have deliberately been made so horrificly complex and complicated that it is virtually impossible for a parliamentarians to understand the situation properly. And as if that is not enough, Rutte and his cronies use agile Brussels dictatorships and methods to roll out the elite's agenda. The people and their representatives of the people are deceived with fine talk, false promises and closed consultations. The power game is no longer between left and right or between conservative and progressive, but between the elite and the people. The people are stuck with a paternalist elite who wants to impose their way of life on the people and impose the law on the people. Mr. Chairman. Behind closed doors at the climate tables, our way of life is threatened and broken down. Reports try to muffle under the tablecloth. And if you've had a lot of trouble getting the minister to give up those reports, you'll be sent into the woods with black pages of paper. Apparently, the table pushers have a higher status than the MPs. How much longer are we gonna let go of ourselves? Outside parliamentary decision-making has become part of the new normal. You can also see this in all kinds of advisory bodies with their inscrutable calculation models. Famous calculation models and Natura 2000 bases within the nitrogen dossier have become tools to roll out the totalitarian agenda. Farmers are forced to clear the ground, with the result that a large proportion of food production has to be replaced by tens of thousands of eaters flooding our country. But what about the rule of law? What about the Dublin agreement? Why are those safe folks still here? The former Secretary of State was so desperate that she threw a clue into the battle to force municipalities to take in fortune seekers. She was reluctant to admit that the cabinet had no legal basis for this at all. As you can see, the government does not want to apply existing laws and regulations and does not want to apply existing laws and regulations. With mass immigration, Islam as a cultural assassin entered our country. That there is an undesirable shift from democracy to human rights is choir on the mill of Islam, an ideology that has nothing to do with democracy. "Human rights" sounds nice, but it is the dismantling of the principle of equality that each citizen grants equal rights and equal treatment in equal cases. It is therefore not surprising that the Western concept of "the principle of equality," with its roots in the Enlightenment and Humanism, clashes with the dark Islam, which wallows in discrimination. While this chambre de réflexion is philosophizing about the rule of law, the same rule of law is at the same time severely undermined by the mocromafia, violent Grey Wolves and other migrated thugs. The result of decades of looking away and keeping daddies and wet. French Muslims don't call the Netherlands a pack of butter for nothing. And if you have your own opinion about that, it may be that you're in front of the courthouse. In order to further manipulate citizens, the European Union is using the Respect Words project to encourage journalists to disinform the people. For example, in the manual of guidelines for journalists, you can read: "Make sure that terms like 'Muslim' or 'Islam' are not stigmatized further by associating them with certain actions. Do not let the claims of extremists about acts in the name of Islam be undisputed. Emphasize the diversity of Muslim communities." In the meantime, the European Commission is cleaning up its record with its own sponsored action plan against disinformation. How clear do you want it to be? But the Scientific Council for Government Policy, the members of which are appointed on a proposal from the Prime Minister, is not disgusting to cover up uncomfortable facts. This Council, which has the task of giving independent advice to the government, proposes, for example, to delete the word "allochtoon" and replace it with "people with a migration background." And if it's the WRR's fault, then the notion of "non-westerners" must also be taken into account. It's all gifts for this government to bury its own mischief. Mr. Chairman. Human rights are the subject of a seizure of power on national sovereignty and on the self-determination of the people. Patriotism has become a dirty word. Certain words and phrases are dismissed as offensive. An innocent word like "nigger kiss" is not done. But what's wrong with a nigger? Or a kiss? Also the Dutch translation of the first part of the hell of Dante's masterpiece, De Divine Comedy, had to be paid for by Blossom Books. Thus the prophet Muhammad was removed from a passage. It would be too hurtful. You're gonna wonder how far they're gonna go. Perhaps the Russian writer Fyodor Dostoyevski, born 200 years ago, already had a visionary vision. In the book Guilt and Penance he wrote: "Tolerance will one day reach a level where intelligent people will be forbidden to express themselves for fear of hurting the imbeciles." Mr. Chairman. The pressure on freedom of expression also puts pressure on democracy. Secrecy, censorship and disinformation are death in the jar for democracy. The catalyst in this is the European Union itself. Apparently, she fears a social debate about her own current views and her own existing institutions. Hidden under a pink cloud of so-called human rights, gender genealogy and wokery there is secretly a tough battle going on for power over the back of the common people. Mr. Chairman. Where's the state of law now? Where are these fundamental rights? Where is democracy in the European Union? So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr Backer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u27	Of course, there are a lot of questions to ask about this argument, but I actually only have one. Does Mrs Faber consider it a characteristic of the rule of law that the government not only protects ministers, but also the opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u28	Of course. I do not understand why Mr Backer is asking a question that is such an open door.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u29	It is not such an open door, because there are also a number of countries in Europe, with a leadership that you are very positive about, where there have been the necessary attacks, where journalists have been murdered, who also play a role in the rule of law, and where people have disappeared. It is certainly not the case that every leader of the opposition in the European Member States deserves the protection it receives, but is it not also a positive side of the Dutch rule of law? Is that, after everything you say about the Dutch rule of law, surely it is not a positive point that should be marked?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u30	Of course, it is a good thing if you are protected, but in the meantime, of course, there is a fight against freedom of expression. That is what we see here in this Chamber and also in other representatives of the people. If you name certain facts, you'll be silenced. That's what's gonna happen. What I'm saying is that it's already happened in this country, that we've already descended so far, that there are politicians who need to be protected when they express their opinions on something that's sensitive. If, for example, we look at the murder of Pim Fortuyn, he was not only killed by Volkert van der G. No, he was in fact prompted by certain politicians of the existing political parties. They participated in the demonisation of Pim Fortuyn. At the time they didn't want to protect Pim Fortuyn either, because that was all a bit tricky. I am referring to the fact that politics has also been involved in this. Then we should not play the roast rooster here and say: yes, Mrs Faber, in other countries they do not want to protect politicians and so on and so on. Of course, I am in favour of protecting people, but I do think it is a mistake that we in the Netherlands have come to terms with the need to protect politicians. What's that all about? One of the hottest issues in this country is currently the discussion of Islam. I can tell by my own party leader, Wilders. In fact, he's been living in a tight lockdown for 16 years. You can just call it that. That is only because he has certain ideas and brings them forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u31	Let's talk about the rule of law. You quote Mr Wilders on certain points. He was convicted by the Supreme Court. May I establish that for a moment? That is also part of the rule of law. That's what happened. I just want to get back to the other point. You're talking about Pim Fortuyn. I do not think we should make the debate so broad. This is also the day Els Borst was killed eight years ago. I don't want to report that was due to all kinds of sedition. It's done. I'll establish it. I think that together we have a mandate to keep the debate within a certain framework so that it remains manageable. I also think that is what the rules of conduct in the Chambers are about. They are not there to limit freedom of expression, but they are about a form of behaviour in politics, for all of us, so that we keep the debate manageable and give an example to the Dutch electorate, the Dutch citizen, who sees that debate. Does Mrs Faber agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u32	I would like to address two points. First of all, that's Mr. Wilders' conviction, which you mentioned. They couldn't come to judgment until they had labeled Moroccans as a race. I thought that was very special. Well, then you're in the middle of a really weird U-turn to convict someone. The Minister of Justice of the VVD got involved, because Wilders got in the way. So there's something wrong with the whole process. Then we haven't even talked about Hans Jansen. That was before, at another trial. They then tried to influence the judge with a dinner party. So this whole thing stinks when I don't know what it is. Then you had another question. You're actually saying that we need to agree a framework to keep things decent. That is a framework that the establishment wants. It is a framework that is said to be decent. When you talk, for example, about buses full of migrants coming in here, with migrants who contribute virtually nothing to the economy, it becomes already sensitive. You're already being pushed into a certain angle. In fact, we are already in a position not to mention certain facts, which are not good enough, here. You will say: we must agree a framework and we must keep it decent. But the problem is that we don't want to name the facts anymore. Then there are also parties who actually think that we are a bit right, but who do not want to say that so loudly. They're gonna talk to flour in the mouth a little bit. Well, we're not in on that. We're just saying borders are closed. We're very simple at that. Let me give you an example, with 'borders closed'. There's just no light in there. You shouldn't say that. You then say: we want to lay down a framework for you to actually shut you up for a bit. We just never go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u33	To use just one term from justice: I rest my case. But that's for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Thank you, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u36	It may have been said that freedom of expression in this Chamber is a great asset. Freedom of expression is also limited in Article 7 of the Constitution. This is also happening in our Rules of Procedure. Where insults, disturbances of order or calls for unlawful acts take place, freedom of expression will cease. Our Rules of Procedure are also based in the Constitution. So there are limits. But as long as I am here as chairman, the freedom of expression of all Members here will be secured. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u37	Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding a debate on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental fundamental rights in the European Union. The Committee on Justice and Security discussed in detail that the 2021 rule of law report, which the European Commission has compiled in the framework of the so-called European rule of law mechanism, will also be part of the debate; hence the presence of the Minister of the Interior in this debate. It is also good to see the Foreign Minister here in his new capacity. We look forward to many debates with the Minister in his new position, as we did in his previous position as Minister of Finance. Mr. Chairman. In the colour bath of the assessment of the rule of law, the European Commission uses four assessment criteria, namely the judicial system of justice, anti-corruption measures, including those of GRECO, pluralism and freedom of the media, and other institutional issues related to checks-and-balances. These emphasis on the rule of law, the rule of law of law, were also initiated by the Netherlands, in particular in order to be able to measure Eastern European countries such as Poland and Hungary and then to draw financial consequences for those countries through the EU. This has also been discussed several times this morning. Mr. Chairman. Let us examine these criteria of the European Commission, which I have just mentioned from the rule of law mechanism, also with the Netherlands in mind. The Netherlands attracts quite a large pair of pants by taking on a wide range of other EU Member States. But if there is a country in which fundamental rights have been severely affected over the last two years by the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which in a disproportionate way infringes our fundamental rights, then it is the Netherlands. Speaking of checks-and-balances, this First Chamber has deliberately sidelined itself. In two weeks, on 22 February, we will debate in this First Chamber the fourth extension of the emergency law, and then until 1 March; the First Chamber as a stamp machine afterwards. Speaking of checks-and-balances! The most far-reaching violations of the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people are made possible, not least without the full States-General having had adequate prior control over them. As far as we are concerned, this indicates that there is something fundamentally wrong with the checks-and-balances in the Dutch system. This emergency law has therefore led to enormous polarisation in Dutch society. A First Chamber which cannot defend its own rights loses its right to exist, I said when this disproportionate emergency law was introduced, where we have consistently voted against it, including its extensions. It is therefore high time that this emergency law was repealed. We have seen in the past that temporary measures last longer in the Netherlands. The corona situation seems to be under control. If Corona gets worse again, the lessons learned from the emergency legislation will enable Parliament to quickly come up with new, hopefully better legislation. But let's hope that's not necessary. But it wasn't supposed to benefit. They don't learn much from supplemental affairs, nitrogen debacles and blasphemies at the Tax Office. We are simply continuing to implement the miserable Environment Act and are going to spend 80 billion on all kinds of state funds where democratic control is inadequate and which are going to result in the distribution of billions to friendly and well-organised lobby groups. And we do this while millions of Dutch people are no longer able to make ends meet because of the rapidly increasing inflation and the exploding energy prices. Mr Van Rooijen also pointed it out this morning in his contribution to this debate: in legislative processes in this First Chamber, the motto is often "so, done is Kees." His plan to set up a task force to raise the quality of legislation can therefore count on the full support of our group. In recent years, we have pointed out many times the structural problem of bad legislation, which seems almost insoluble. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to another problem. That is the fact that our Constitution is in practice a dead letter. The Netherlands is one of the few countries in the EU that have no constitutional judicial review. Laws must not be judged by the Constitution either. Article 120 of the Constitution expressly prohibits this. Nor do we have a constitutional court, unlike most other EU Member States. A Constitution which is the foundation of the Dutch rule of law, but which we can actually do little or nothing with in practice. The idea is that the First and Second Chambers carry out the constitutional review, but in practice we see that this does not always work well. In fact, some political groups even have total deception of the Constitution and act without consequence in violation of the oath in which they have sworn allegiance to that same Constitution. That's extremely worrying. In addition to the lack of constitutional review, the Dutch rule of law has another important gap. This concerns the lack of opportunities for effective protection of our free democratic rule of law. In our neighbour Germany, the Bundesverfassungsschutz was established in the 1950s. A body with far-reaching powers to nip extremism in the bud and which has led to greater awareness among the population and administrators of the risks of extremism since its inception, which can also be dealt with more effectively and in a more timely manner in comparison with the Netherlands. We see, for example, that Germany's Minister for the Interior is acting hard against extremist, intimidating expressions on social media, such as in Telegram groups, which we are now dealing with in the Netherlands. NRC Handelsblad recently published extensively on these so-called digital fight crews, which do not hesitate to intimidate political and other opponents and call for violence. The German Minister for the Interior is now threatening Telegram with a fine of EUR 55 million or, if necessary, even banning the entire platform. What does the Minister for the Interior intend to do against these increasing threats and intimidations, especially online ones, in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Another aspect raised in the European Commission's rule of law report is the role of political parties. This includes in particular the Financing Act on political parties. Now I'm quite familiar with the Wfpp and its system. These are substantial amounts, of many millions, of subsidies paid to parties by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry also supervises the legitimate use of those party subsidies. As I said, there are many millions of them a year. As far as our group is concerned, the control of the use of Wfpp funds and the control of the number of political parties paying, the number of members, could now be better done by the General Court rather than by the Ministry responsible for the grant. How does the Home Secretary feel about that? In addition, we believe that the timeliness of all kinds of reporting requirements under the Wfpp is not sufficient and the reports often come as mustard after the meal. Speaking of which, what is the latest state of affairs of the law on political parties, I would ask the Minister of the Interior. Mr. Chairman. Another aspect highlighted by the European Commission is compliance with the GRECO Directives in the Netherlands. Other groups also recalled: compliance with this is very poor in the Netherlands. Then we are also talking about matters such as cooling-off periods of rulers, revolving doors, revolving doors, etc., where the rulers flow effortlessly from a ministerial to, for example, a lobby job. Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen even stayed on while she already had her new lobby job in her pocket, even with the Prime Minister's permission. This is unthinkable in many other EU Member States. Integrity is of course also a matter of "leading by example" and the right "tone from the top." How does the cabinet believe that it can credibly demand proper compliance with the legislation if it itself sets the wrong example in this area? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to another aspect. That is the very generous criminal immunity in the Netherlands for civil servants, which results from the so-called Pikmeer judgments of the Supreme Court. This is, in our opinion, an important reason why things have gotten so out of hand with, for example, institutional racism in the premium affair. There is no longer any settlement for this kind of behavior due to the Pikmeer arrests. In fact, a pass was issued for misconduct. We would therefore like to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs how she intends to improve this in concrete terms. Mr President, I will conclude. We know the Foreign Minister as someone who, in his previous position as Finance Minister, did not hesitate to stand up for Dutch interests within the European Union. We are counting on the Minister, in the colour bath of the many foreign interests, to have the primary colours of Dutch interests prevail again. We look forward to the response of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mrs Nanninga of the Nanninga Group will have the floor during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's start with the cheerful pleasantries of the day. Congratulations on your birthday, and congratulations to both ministers on their new portfolio or job. Mr. Chairman. What is special is that we are sitting here today for hours on something that this Chamber, however much we may wish to say, has very little to say about. The legislation of the House of Representatives must of course pass here; at least that is the idea of the coalition parties. Mr Otten rightly called us sometimes a bit of a stamp machine. But it is not clear to my group how the Members of this Chamber think that we can send Poland and Hungary, for example, to the grating house, as many Members seem to want here. A little discipline from the Dutch First Chamber, well, that will teach them! Moreover, quite a few members try to steal the show with all kinds of political statements, not least the members of the established parties. This is precisely what they often say that the First Chamber should not become too political, because it would then be possible to vote in a way that the government does not like, and that is not what we are here for. So what are we doing here anyway? We're here to see if everyone thinks the same thing and the right thing. This is usually the line the government prescribes, at least again according to the established parties. That seems rather pointless to me. It is clear that my group, as fortunately all the groups here today, are in favour of democracy, the free press and the rule of law. That is why I find it so amazing that we are doing a bit of symbolic politics here, while there is something really wrong in the Netherlands on these points too. When it comes to democracy, we see first of all that the enthusiasm for it has diminished in a large number of parties. Democracy is fun, as long as the people tick the right ticks. Referenda have disappeared partly and especially by D66, and its results have been skilfully ignored before. Secondly, there is a very large democratic deficit, inherent in the European Union. That's what we're talking about today. It is said that the European Parliament is democratic, but is it true? The Netherlands occupies only 4.1% of the seats in the European Parliament. That's 29 out of 705 seats. The influence of the Dutch electorate on EU legislation and regulations is therefore very small. The European Green Deal, a 30-year plan that will have a profound and negative impact on our economy and society, has been achieved with minimal participation but with maximum financial contribution from the Dutch electorate. And perhaps this is the kind of democracy that some people like, the democracy in which the Dutch electorate does not have much to say, but can pay a lot. But my group is really different in this game. You will not be surprised that, for example, my group attaches great importance to the right of veto. You can say: listen, that's how it works in a large community of countries. However, I would like to argue in favour of limiting the regulation from Brussels as much as possible, since the control over it is also minimal, but the impact on our society is still maximum. Mr. Chairman. The first pancake always fails. A union of European countries is a good idea, but it is poorly implemented. So back to the batter bowl, make a new mix and bake a better version: that's what's needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u40	However, I would like to return to Mrs Nanninga's statement that the European Parliament does not propose so much, that the role of the Netherlands within that European Parliament is almost negligible, and that we have no influence at all. Imagine a Europe without the European Union, in which the superpowers were such that they served, with great effects for countries such as the Netherlands and smaller countries, which they had nothing to say about. Then there will be a European Union. There's a lot to improve on. I also have many proposals in my own mind to make them even more democratic; certainly. Then there will be a union with a European Parliament, including a co-decision procedure, which you cannot ignore. That's where the Netherlands is. Mrs Nanninga knows, first of all, that the seats in the European Parliament are not exactly proportional, but are so divided that smaller countries have relatively more seats than larger countries. That is how it is in the European Parliament. And so, the alternative, with all that criticism of the European Parliament and the way that is possible... Even less or no control through the European Parliament would mean that the Netherlands is completely out of play. Within that European Parliament, we have a little more influence than we would have purely on proportional grounds. I'd like a response from Mrs. Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u41	Then you're assuming that the whole union is a good idea in itself. It's like putting someone in a cage and saying, "Well, you got four square feet, that's more fun than two square feet," right? Yeah, you'll get the cuckoo! But, of course, we have given that sovereignty away thoroughly. On the other hand, we pay far more disproportionately than we have influence. I think that's one thing, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u42	It is about the influence through the European Parliament. There we have relatively more influence than our people would justify. Of course you should also use it, but the fact that you exchange there... If you would apply the same arithmetic here, a citizen from Lutjebroek might also think: what is my influence here? That's how it works with representative democracy. Then the European Parliament still has 750 Members, who are so assembled as they are. So I'd say it's not optimal, but use it. Is Mrs Nanninga also prepared to influence, through the European Parliament, if they were in it, in the direction she would prefer to see?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u43	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u44	Or is it all futile and doesn't make any sense at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u45	Sure, so do we. We have three seats in the European Parliament, which we are indeed making the most of in order to allow it to move in the direction we want. The little bit of influence we have, of course, we have to use. But that doesn't change the fact that, when you look at sovereignty, we have put way too much influence away in such a large organ. I heard Mr Koole say that we are actually even better represented there. But do you have the illusion, I say through the President, that the big two or three countries of Europe are not doing the job, that we are not the biggest net contributor and that we are making the most of this union? We need to maintain much more sovereignty and get out of that union. That is the position of my group. You can disagree with that. Then it is said: be happy with the little influence you have; better something than nothing. But no, we're not happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u46	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u47	Firstly, without that European Union and without the European Parliament, the Netherlands would not be able to exert any influence in a democratic way. Secondly, the remark was made that we are net contributors. Mr Backer has already referred to this report, which has just been published, which states that the Netherlands, of all Member States, is by far the most economically advantageous to the European Union. You can find anything you want, but that's a fact. If you take that into account, we are net net net recipients of the benefits of the European Union. I would perhaps also like to put something into perspective in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u48	I didn't hear a question. I would have stayed with my pancake. We're gonna have to rebake it. We're not against union in itself, but the first pancake always fails. We are going to make a better version, in terms of economic affairs, trade perhaps, in terms of other forms of cooperation, but not in line with the current trend towards an ever closer union and EU influence in more and more policy areas, from climate to immigration and possibly even defence. Don't even think about it. Then we can look again at which countries we like to involve in such a trade union. Those in this Chamber who rightly look at the domestic policies of countries such as Poland and Hungary will find that a pleasant prospect. There are other countries that didn't want this pancake. The British have left the EU. Introspection in Brussels? How can such a first-name, great and rich European country leave that super-duper-great EU? No self-reflection. Brexit is simply seen as a democratic decision that the European Commission does not like. The loss of the United Kingdom must be compensated by the potential new Member States, Bosnia, Serbia, Albania, Montenegro and Northern Macedonia. We do not think that is an attractive prospect. To return to democratic deficit in our own country, dualism is as good as dead letter. Parliament, in particular, and in particular the coalition parties, have for years failed to properly monitor successive governments. The consequences are visible to everyone. I would just like to mention the premium affair, mentioned by almost everyone here in the speeches. A significant part of parliament cares more about the opinion of spindoctors than integrity and doing its duty. This is a pattern. Look at the resulting Ruttedoctrine, the "function elsewhere" story, the total lack of active or inactive memories. In short, things are really not going very well in our own country. There will be a separate debate on this. But how wonderful that there are other countries in Europe to point fingers at. It seems as if certain parties control governments in other countries better than our own government here in the Netherlands. Guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, Democracy and the rule of law are at stake here in the Netherlands. Things are really not going so well, so stop looking abroad. Your own pancake first, if you will, and then let's all see what kind of union, under what conditions and with which members we want it as a sovereign country. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u49	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. In connection with a number of planned committee meetings, I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u50	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in the European Union. We now need the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u51	Thank you, Mr President. May I begin by saying that I find it an exceptional privilege to be here with you and your members. Anyway, but of course also as a former member of what at least was called when the BDO committee. I don't know if the naming has changed by now, but I have warm memories of that time. I must say that I may still be halfway through the process of rehab in your housing, but it is not up to me to find out more about it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Senator Knaps on his swearing in. In the confidentiality of this conversation I may share with you that I have made a compelling appeal to Mr Knapen, that he said yes almost immediately, but the next morning also said to me: if you run into someone who would love to do it between Bussum and The Hague, I am not offended. That was, of course, an encouragement to make the most of his services. He knows that I appreciate him very much for that and I also find it very special to see him here again today. Mr. Chairman. There are several ways of remembering geopolitics. This is a subject which, of course, also lends itself to a completely different debate, as some have pointed out. It indirectly affects the enormous importance of foreign affairs and also what we are talking about today, namely standards, values, principles, the rule of law, democracy and the media. There have been serious concerns about this. The cabinet is very much in agreement with many in the Chamber and is drawing to a large extent at the same end of the rope. With your permission, Mr President, I would first like to make a few introductory remarks, including on the instruments. Then I immediately answered Mrs Huizinga's question. When I answer her, I almost have some sort of roadmap for answering questions about the instruments. Then I come to the interpretation of fundamental rights and a number of other things. I shall first go through Article 7, the intergroup procedure, the rule of law, the MFF and other instruments with you. I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it was sufficiently clear which part of us was going to do. We agreed that inland and abroad, although relevant to each other, were so clearly separated in the question, that we would get out of it without further explanation in advance. Mr. Chairman. Respect for the rule of law is the foundation of European cooperation; it is good to underline that. It is essential for that cooperation that Union law is applied in the same way and is respected in all Member States. This is no longer guaranteed when Member States no longer regard this legal independence as leading. Moreover, the functioning of the EU depends on mutual trust between Member States. In this context, the Netherlands, I agree with many of the speakers here, are concerned about developments in Poland and Hungary, where the rule of law has been put under further pressure. This also complicates the making of basic agreements, which we have as Member States. What we are doing as the Netherlands is continuing our efforts to preserve and improve the rule of law in the European Union. We do this, of course, in our direct contacts with the Member States, but also in the EU context, for example, by encouraging the European Commission, with other EU Member States, the guardian of the treaties, to take action. I am about to go with Mr Backer and Mrs Oomen to explain who should be the most in the lead. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Huizinga asked whether, in addition to possible financial incentives, there are other ways of tempting Poland and Hungary to better behaviour, if I may put it that way. I would like to use that question to briefly outline the instruments and then go into the various blocks. The EU has different legal and, of course, political instruments as well as financial instruments. In fact, the Commission may have made extensive reference to this by several Members in the event of a breach of EU law, the so-called intergroup procedure. That's one. Those procedures also run; I will come back to that in a moment. Two: In addition, in the case of Poland and Hungary, for example, the country chapters of the Annual Rule of Law Report make a valuable contribution to the Commission's identification and identification of new developments. They will then be discussed in the Council. That is a second part that I will deal with in a moment. Then there's Article 7. A lot of questions have been asked about that. That is the most important political instrument. The dialogue phase in which the procedures are currently in place already offers the opportunity to try to achieve this with political pressure from the Council. Then there is the option of using multilateral organisations, such as the Council of Europe, to promote the rule of law. I'll get back to you on that in a little bit. Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mrs Karimi and others rightly referred to this. And then, of course, there is the direct dialogue that countries have with each other and which also offers the space, which, of course, I would also like to use myself, to discuss the why of the rule of law. Why is that so relevant? Because diplomacy also lends itself to exchanging views on things that you may not automatically agree on. Mr. Chairman. Then let's move on to Article 7. Mrs Karimi asked for this, as did Mr Van Ballekom and Mr Koole and many in the Chamber. I think the key question was: can you give an appreciation of Article 7 on a treaty change? Life is forgiven for dilemmas, especially in the field of foreign policy. Here is the dilemma that this difficult decision-making procedure leads to the fact that it is not real at the moment to move on to the next stage. On the other hand, many have argued - and I agree with this - that the legal situation in Poland and Hungary is indeed a cause for concern. The cabinet is in principle open to a treaty change. We will, of course, have to test them in the light of the Dutch and European interests. That goes without saying: you are not in favour of every treaty change. But we all know that this is a very long and intensive journey. My dark brown suspicion is that the outcome will always be a compromise. I understand very well that Members say that we should make use of it and make use of it. I also share Mr Backer's view that the fact that it is difficult or even unthinkable does not mean that you should say in advance that you should not try. I think that was free to Willem van Oranje: you don't have to succeed to try. I am going to take that attitude, but I think it is real to point out in this debate how many thorns and thistles lie on that road. We didn't just realize that. Mrs Karimi asked about the further follow-up of the procedure. The Netherlands remains committed to addressing all the Commission's concerns regarding the rule of law. Besides, there is a monkey coming out of the sleeve. She referred to that herself. It seems unlikely that the Council, with a four-fifths majority, and then with the approval of the EP, would make the observation that there would be a clear risk of a serious breach of the Union's values, as laid down in Article 2. We will continue to support the Commission in this respect in full. We will continue to engage in dialogue on this subject ourselves. But if Mrs Karimi were to ask what the next step is and to what extent you will be able to count on that four-fifths majority, then we all know the complexity that Members have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u52	Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u53	I don't think the mic is working.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u54	I can't push the button any harder, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u55	Now it's working.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u56	Good. I would like to come back to the point of the Treaty amendment, on which the Minister says: the road to it is full of thorns and thistles. That goes without saying; that is a long way. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't go that way in advance or try to go that way. We see this in the context of the debate on a treaty change, as it may already be on the agenda in the context of the conference on the future of Europe. Can the Minister give a concrete undertaking to this Chamber that the Dutch Government will treat this as one of the points on which the Treaty might need to be amended, in order to achieve a better, more effective toolbox for the standards of the democratic rule of law within the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u57	Yes. In fact, I think that's important. I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. But I will also argue with each of the sub-questions that I find the following. If you believe together that the European Union is there for making money, for trading and for well-being, but that it is also about the value community, then you must take it seriously. Then you will have to do even more than just bring it up at the conference, in the context of any amendment to that Treaty. Again, I think that the latter will be very difficult and will cost a lot of work, and that an outcome that makes it better in the area of the rule of law is far from guaranteed. But I very much agree. Actually, I'd like to go wider. It should be both the conference and the Treaty, which I would like to look at. But I think it should be much more part of the dialogue on a lot of things we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u58	The Minister and I do not disagree on the fact that it has to be broader. The point is this. Does the Minister agree with the analysis that, in the context of better enforcement of the rule of law in the EU, it would ultimately be highly desirable for us to come to a treaty amendment on this issue? I understand that the road to it is difficult and that, while we still have to go down that road and the outcome is uncertain, we also have to do other things. That's what we've been talking about. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether that could be a way for the Dutch Government. If that possibility arises, we would like that Treaty to be amended on this point, for example with regard to Article 7 or in any other way, a deployment option, so that at least it is more clearly anchored in a new treaty that is possible for the EU to take enforcement action, with ultimately final consequences for Member States that flagrantly and systematically break the rules of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u59	I'd be happy to admit it. I'd like to explore that further. I just want to do two things at a time. I would like to point out on the one hand that, provided that you shape it wisely and that you apply the wording that helps you forward rather than backwards, I am very happy to work for it. Indeed, I am convinced, with many in your Chamber, that greater attention to the rule of law is ultimately in the interests of the European Union and all its inhabitants. It is just that I have to constantly outline the complexity of the way forward, precisely because unanimity is required and there are Member States that have very different views and are totally on the other side of the line. So I would like to agree, but it is also my job to ignore realistic expectations, if only to avoid future disappointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u60	Finally. I understand. I'm glad the Minister is trying to save us from disappointments. I understand that would be a very long and complicated process. I think the Minister is right, too, if he is realistic and says: we should not underestimate it and it could also have a different outcome. But when you say "it's gonna be a tough road," you can do two things. You say: then we don't go on that road at all and then we don't put any energy into it either. Or you can say: in the end that is very important for the Dutch government and we are going to make a commitment to that. But I can see in the Minister's words that he promises that it does not exclude one another and that, in the context of the discussion on a treaty change, that can also be included on the agenda as far as the Dutch Government is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u61	I'm going to try to say yes in a third way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u62	I would like to return to the argument that the four-fifths majority would not be feasible. What does the Minister actually say about the state of affairs in the EU if there are not even 21 countries that really think this is serious and take it seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u63	That is one of the major inconveniences that are so evident in this debate. We're gonna talk a lot more about that in a minute. I believe that many Members of your Chamber have rightly pointed out strong criteria, as set out in the Copenhagen criteria, to enter, including in the area of the rule of law. I am going to say in a moment that the adjustment I made two years ago is a further improvement in my belief. This is not an automatic way forward. No, you can also put a country back in the procedure when it is clearly not doing so well. It is, of course, very complicated that once you are a member of the Union, you are inside. At the moment there are very few instruments to do something about that. This also explains the inconvenience in this debate and the lack of traction that this issue has received in recent years. In the category "count your blessings one by one," this is of course a subject that is now much more prominent on the agenda. This is due to the problems that exist in two Member States in particular, but also to the fact that many in Europe, in this Chamber, in the European Parliament and in other places realise that it is really about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u64	If I, as a European citizen, listen to this argument and this story, I have to say that I unfortunately understand that story in itself, because of the reality of the situation, there is a huge feeling of unease. Does the Minister agree with me? We cannot use the instrument in Article 7 because the four-fifths majority is not present and because unanimity cannot be achieved. On the other hand, a treaty change is also very difficult. The question is what then is the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u65	I will argue that, as far as I am concerned, you should still pursue a treaty change, provided that it improves. That is what Mrs Karimi and others have also argued. As far as I am concerned, you can let the subject of the rule of law be a much broader subject of discussion. My conviction and also my hope is that this issue will not go away. Let me compare it to four years ago, when the previous cabinet took office, or ten years ago, when I joined the Upper House. The subject of the rule of law and the link with all kinds of other European dossiers has taken a huge turn, I think for good reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u66	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u67	Finally. I agree with that. I would then like to ask whether the Dutch Government is prepared to lodge an interstate complaint alone, or in cooperation with other countries. Because that's the third way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u68	I'll get back to you on that. There is a little bit more to be said about this. We also know the "third way" in a political context. That was between left and right. That sounded like a friendly middle way. I am about to argue that there are serious consequences, however much I understand from the political point of view of Mrs Karimi. Can I come back to that in a moment? Mr. Chairman. I think I have had Mrs Oomen's question on the appreciation of the Treaty amendment. Mr Backer had a similar question. In my view, I have answered the various questions relating to Article 7. That brings me to the intergroup procedures. Mr Van Ballekom, in particular, has given a great deal of thought to this, but also to others. It is good to outline what the course of things has been in the past period, to also indicate where there is and no scope for action. The EU Court of Justice ruled on the Polish disciplinary regime last summer. That is a discussion which we see coming back to the newspaper every day. On 14 July, at the request of the Commission, the EU Court imposed provisional measures in that current case. On 22 December last year, the Commission launched an infringement procedure to address that ruling of the Polish Constitutional Tribunal on the matter of priority. The latest state of play in Hungary is that the Commission took a new step on 2 December, namely an official request to Hungary to comply with Union law. That's what I'm talking about, about actuality. Those discussions are still ongoing. Mr Van Ballekom asked: it is a long procedure, could we shorten it? My suspicion is that this is not possible in any case for the current procedures. I also understood his question as follows: could you do something about it in the future? I actually have a similar answer to that to the answer I just gave to the question on Article 7. I myself, with Mr Van Ballekom, think that that would be really good and that there would be a huge added value if you could give more of a piece of work there. This will provide much quicker clarity and opportunities for the citizens, in which Mrs Karimi has just moved. What do the citizens think? What do the inhabitants of our country think of it, but also of other countries? And do they get what things have the consequences? I'd be happy to commit myself to that. I would like to try because we all have to look into this, so let me be careful not to give too much commitment to return to it just before the debate on the state of the Union. That may be an intermediate step, but at least we can take it back there. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer asked if I was prepared to argue that the EU Commission should use default settings. It is good to point out once again that the idea of using an expert panel in itself has also been put forward by the EP. One comment is that this would mean a significant extension of the existing rule of law mechanism. I would like to choose to leave this on the screen, but let us first see if we can bring the instruments to maturity. At the moment, therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to add anything to that. But I also know Mr Backer in such a way that he says: I will take that up again in the next debate. I also think that is wise, because I would not want to rule it out for all eternity. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole asked if the cabinet was prepared to investigate the introduction of systemic infusion actions. I have to say this in English, but I want to do a little bit of the old box. I can remember that Mr Koole was in a certain state of excitement a decade or so ago, because only Dutch or Latin was allowed to be spoken in this Chamber, but certainly not English. At that time, when we were both sitting in the First Chamber, he and I had got into a debate with a ruler who was constantly reminiscent of English. That's what got him on a reprimand. That is why I only use English with extreme caution. That was a long way to say that I think it's an interesting idea and that I'm going to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u69	Mr Koole must respond now, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u70	But Mr Koole knows that I will not withdraw the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u71	Mister Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u72	Thank you for the commitment. Can the Minister also promise that, if he is going to study it, he will be able to do so before the next debate on the European State of the Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u73	I really should check how much time that takes. If that's possible, of course I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u74	I have a second comment. The Minister can also say: systemic infringement proceedings or actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u75	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u76	Look, I'm gonna get my ears washed after all. Then Mr Koole also asked whether I consider the level of fines imposed on Poland to be effective. I can, of course, tell you that there are all kinds of general criteria. One could also ask: if you see these millions, how do they relate to the billions of sums paid out to some Member States, in this case to Poland? However, I believe that the mechanism is indeed effective, because it is a counter that goes through. In many respects it is reminiscent in Dutch law of the penalty payment which is forfeited. The dripping of the crane of course results in publicity every time. I don't think the most important thing is whether it's about millions, tens of millions or hundreds of millions. I do think it would be so, but that is hypothetically true that Member States decide to sit on these matters for a long time, then you will of course have a discussion about whether the fine should not be raised. Mr. Chairman. Then I had a question from Mrs Oomen. She referred to investigator Keneman. I'm afraid I have to confess that I'm not familiar with that investigation. I very much agree with her that the Commission, Parliament and the Council have a shared responsibility. I would like to take a moment to study Mr Keneman's research. I promise her that I will return to it in a letter or in the debate on the Union. She always knows how to like me, so let me make sure I find her if we don't find out who Keneman is. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the rule of law mechanism and the country reports. There were relatively few questions about that. Ms Karimi asked whether the report on the rule of law should not be extended to cover asylum and migration. The mechanism consists of four pillars: the justice system, anti-corruption, media pluralism and checks-and-balances. It is true that asylum and migration are not included. It is also good to mention that this is a relatively new instrument. The Commission's first report on the rule of law was published in 2020. You almost forgot, because we're talking a lot about it. It is now important to ensure that this instrument is well developed. At the moment, in this very precarious process, I would just like to take place and do not want to put pressure on new elements. Mrs Huizinga asked for concrete consequences. Unlike some of the other instruments, the monitoring cycle is non-binding and preventive and cannot, as such, have any legal consequences. The withdrawal of subsidies is not at present a matter for this instrument either. But you can imagine that in the future, especially if we continue on the path that Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mrs Oomen, Mrs Karimi and Mr Van Ballekom outlined, this will be a means of making the rule of law even more prominently part of the wider debate on what is now the lust and burden in the Union. Mr. Chairman. Then a subject that had a lot of traction, namely the MFC condition, including the RRF. I understood the Chamber almost unisono as: can we not do any more, can we also make an even more explicit link here? I understand that very well, because this is, of course, an excellent subject that you would like the Union's lusts and burdens to go hand in hand. I myself find that one of the great inconveniences when you explain to the people in the country what the Union is for. People in the country know that even if you look at the input given to the conference on Europe, which is about stability, economics and earning a good living, and the rule of law. It makes it very clear that the desires and burdens should go hand in hand, so that there is reciprocity. I therefore understand the question put by Members very well. As far as I am concerned, this theme also applies to the fact that the time has come to paraphrase Victor Hugo loosely, but I think we can only do a limited amount to speed things up at the moment. In the summer of 2020, the Netherlands was one of the very few in the Netherlands made that link for the first time. I would very much like us to be able to reconnect it with another MFF negotiation, which, as your Chamber knows, is still a while away. Mr Van Ballekom asked whether I agree that there should be a more direct link between compliance with the Convention and the financial benefits. As pointed out, I would very much like to bring the desires and burdens into hand much more. I also think it is really good news that since 1 January 2021 we have had the MFF rule of law. I only see very little scope for action to break things down further and to link even more. That is actually in line with many speakers in the Chamber. I would like to point out to Mr Backer and Mr Van Apeldoorn the following. I think they had questions in the same direction. It was a very hard-won compromise in that summer. I was in France myself then, but in the middle of the night in particular I had the Prime Minister on the phone about ten times over three nightly sessions. Again, he said, with a number of others, that we are going to make that link. I think that was very sensible, from a Dutch perspective, but also from a broader Union perspective. It's obvious, it's logical, it's fair and it's explainable when lusts and burdens go hand in hand. In the discussion about money, it is logical that you demand more from one country than from another. It is logical to let these lusts and burdens go hand in hand if there is also economic imbalance in the Union. Then it's highly justifiable that you're making such a connection. That went very well, but I would add: it was heavily fought. I am therefore very pleased that it has been achieved. I also think that there is relatively little scope for action to strengthen it even further in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u77	I appreciate the commitment then and for achieving the heavily fought result. The minister says there's no room to accelerate, to activate it faster. Could the Minister explain exactly why that is? In my earlier speech, I also said that he might be able to go along with the German Government. The German Government itself has also agreed to speed up the use of such mechanisms. Perhaps then there will be some traction so that you can also, through the Council, remind the Commission to activate rather more quickly rather than wait for a ruling from the Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u78	I very much agree with that. My attitude, and undoubtedly the Prime Minister's attitude, will not be: we settled that in 2020, so we are done with it now. On the contrary. Especially if a Member State of the size of Germany puts its full weight behind this, it will, of course, give traction in the discussion. I say it carefully, because I have experienced how long that process has been, how difficult it has been for the Commission to reach a compromise and how far apart Member States' positions have been. At that time, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Block, together with the Prime Minister, was the primary negotiator in the field of the MFF. As Minister of Finance, I was the third to be present at the time. That was about height. That was about the content. Is there a need for more innovation? Does that mean extra money, or is that at the expense of something else? Of course, that was also about this component, which was decided in that summer. My belief is that it is a very sensible crowbar. It is very sensible that we managed to put that crowbar in the MFF for the first time. That was because it was about the RRF money. I'd really like to get on that road. Only, you never know for sure. I have just heard the Members, especially Mr Backer, that I have actually been kept to the impossible. I'm going to commit myself to that, but I'm not expecting any major re-negotiation of the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u79	I understand the caution with which the Minister must operate in this process. The Minister also said to my questions: I very much agree. That is why I also understand at the same time that the Minister will seek contact with the German Government. I think that is standard with the German Government anyway, and possibly with other partners in order to speed things up here. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u80	Yes. That is certainly the case. Of course it is with Germany. In any case, we will be working very closely with Germany again in the coming years, but with France as well. The statements of Macron from the past few years show that they are much more vocal about this in France than they were about five years ago, let alone ten years ago. I think this theme is going to get much more traction. I am not going to make our own position smaller than it is, but it is very helpful if countries like France and Germany say: we want to do something with this and we are going to make this part of any future discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u81	This fits in. You mentioned the names of the former rulers, the Foreign Affairs Block, yourself on Finance and the Prime Minister, who arrived in those notorious nightly negotiations with a crowbar. Could it be that at that time the European institutions took a look at this attitude, but that the signs are now suspended? Mr Koole rightly mentioned the Federal Republic, but also this coalition agreement. It may be that the crowbar you brought up at the time is much more appropriate and is expected by the negotiators to take a next step. I feel like the dynamics have changed. Could it be that we should not look at what was so difficult last time, but at what might be much better possible next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u82	Let me put it in my own words. There could also be other inspirations from Mr Backer, so I would like to say with great caution. What this is about... Also in that I am going to play our role as the Netherlands and certainly not my own... I was lying in a camping bed and got a call at night, but I wasn't an active participant in that negotiation. So I don't want to make my own role any bigger either. But what it has done, I think, is now broader in Europe and what has already been a dormant theme, is the subject we are discussing today. That is essentially: are we or are we not also a value community? And when we say that we are a value community, are we prepared to do more than just confess it by mouth? Without wishing to criticize the past: we have talked about it for decades in Europe, but we have not wanted to draw any conclusions that were also felt in the wallet, the right to speak and the options that Member States all had at their disposal. It is my belief that that has been unwise. You have to let lust and burdens in the most basic form go hand in hand. I am certainly going to look further at where you can make such a link, as is also the case with the other members of the Cabinet, in order to further implement the rule of law mechanism, which is extremely important, not only for our inhabitants but also for the inhabitants of all the Member States of the Union. Mr. Chairman. I had already replied to Mr Koole at the time of the interruption, but I would also like to say to him that in the current case he undoubtedly gave a strong ruling to the Court on 16 February, that after this judgment the Commission would not stand in the way of the effective application of the MFF rule of law and that we in the Netherlands would insist that, if that ruling were to give rise to, the Commission would draw the consequences from that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer asked whether the government wanted to see to it, within the framework of the pre-emia, that this conditionality, which has been in force for 13 months, should be respected widely. On its own, please. Of course, we have to wait for the verdict. As far as I'm concerned, he'll... Let me put it carefully. Potentially, this will have great consequences, in fact, for everything that has emerged in this debate. If the Court were to say that these things are indeed compatible with each other and that you should not link those cases, then I think that we, as a Union, will find ourselves in a very complicated package. For then, it is up to the Court, not to me, really, to be recognized that you can indeed damage the rule of law and, in the meantime, despite the agreements made, can count on the money. This is going to have great consequences, as the opposite is going to have great consequences. Because if the Court says that this link can be made and that that is in line with the agreements, then a lot of the cases that a large majority of the House has argued here are not quite within reach, but we will certainly go further. I'll go back to that. I am sure colleagues in Germany, in France and in many other places will go further than that. And then the Commission will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u83	I think that, given the opinion of the Advocate General, there is little reason to believe that this would be different from the opinion. Anyway, you don't know and eventually the court will decide. Let us assume that the Court's ruling is in line with the opinion of the Advocate General. In that case, the Commission should act immediately. And then it is no longer really appropriate to wait until, for example, after the elections in Hungary. It is now said that we want to wait for that. What is the Minister's position in this discussion? Can he reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u84	I really think that's up to the Commission. I also think it is really important that I am in a position to do so. That statement's almost there. It will be done on 16 February. I think it is up to the Commission to act in this regard. In general, I think it's wise that you just get to work in these situations yourself. That applies to me as a member of the Dutch Government. So if that statement gives rise to it, I will be talking to the Commission about it myself, and to colleagues in Europe. At least I'll do it myself. I will also mention in those talks that I think it is logical that the Commission should also take further steps. But in the end, of course, that is up to the Commission, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u85	Does the Minister agree with me that, precisely by linking it to the elections in Hungary, you are actually turning it into a political issue? Does he agree with me that it would be better if the Commission just got to work immediately? Does the Minister intend to bring that into the discussion with the Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u86	In general, I think that this is so fundamental that there are actually no 'events' that I can now foresee, which justify the postponement of the resumption of this dialogue and also of measures towards Hungary. But I think this is only up to the Commission. So I can also express the Dutch position on this. I will also put that to the Commission. But I do not think I can speak on behalf of the Commission. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked what the latest state of recovery plans were. Slovakia's recovery plan was approved by the Council in July 2021. The draft implementing decisions containing the assessments of the Polish and Hungarian recovery plans have not yet been submitted to the Council. So that is the situation at the moment. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked about the scope. I think I have just answered that question in the answers to Mr Koole. I think Mr Van Ballekom's question on the RFF has also been answered, just in the exchange of views. Mrs Huizinga asked for a statement that one of my colleagues would have made on the impact on the economy of cutting subsidies. She asks how I see it. In general, I think it is very sensible that we should work together on what is so beautifully called 'upward convergence'. There are few people who read the coalition agreement and will think: I know exactly what "upward convergence" means. The Senate obviously knows that. I think it's very sensible to work on that. But I think that is a different discussion than the much more fundamental discussion we are having here. I also believe that these two discussions should not be confused. Besides, I don't want to take anything away from the impact of the RRF. The RRF can indeed help to recreate economic growth, but if you then sell it against the GDP of the Union as a whole, you can see that it is also not the case that only that RRF is responsible for economic growth, and that without the RRF there would be no economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u87	The minister says he doesn't want to confuse those two things. But it's a little weird. We got that RRF. We have said: If you do not comply with the constitutional requirements, your benefits from the RRF may be reduced. That's a good result. The Minister also said he worked hard on it. If it is then said in interviews by the Foreign Minister of the current President of the European Union that we are not going to do so, so we are not going to cut short because the Polish economy is far too important. You may say that you do not want to confuse these discussions, but the Minister does. So they are connected together. I was wondering how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u88	That's pretty close to the answer I just gave. In itself, I think that this link between the RRF and getting money and the rule of law is a sensible one. If you see how the European economy has developed in recent months, there are still concerns, but there has also been a strong degree of catch-up growth in a number of Member States, then my expectation is not that RRF money alone will make the difference between economic growth or recession. Maybe I can put it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u89	You may, of course, formulate it as you wish, in any way; you understand that. But my question is what these sanctions are worth if financial resources are agreed which are actually sanctions and which would then not be followed up because of all kinds of pragmatic objections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u90	Then perhaps I have not been clear in my first reply or in the speech in the first part of this debate. I think the point is, you'll make that clutch. This is about something very fundamental. It's secondary what kind of potential effect it would have. Mr. Chairman. Now that Mrs Huizinga and I have resolved this, I am with Mrs Oomen. He asked about the European Parliament's proposal to link climate benefits, the climate transition fund, to the demands of justice. That's right. It contains a direct reference to the MFF Rule of Law Regulation. I really think that proposal is a clear signal. I have just said that we have always said that we support this link. The EP proposal is therefore also in line with how we, as a Dutch cabinet, would like to look at these matters. Mr Raven asked about the effectiveness of EU instruments, including financial resources. He mentioned the suspension of EU subsidies and the more than uncomfortable, and as far as I am concerned, really unacceptable, example of those Ihbti-free zones. I would just like to refer in the instruments to what I have just said about it and what can and cannot be done at the moment. I think that Mr Ballekom's question on a more direct link has been answered. Then I have a few things in the category of other instruments. Nor was I unaware that Mr Kox took his place on the left tribune. He has been extended by Mr Van Apeldoorn in the sun. Of course, I hurry immediately to tell Mr Van Apeldoorn who I have and have not spoken to. I'm usually a little careful about that. But Mr Kox and I have already been able to find each other on the phone and will soon be discussing everything he is going to do for Europe. As soon as there is an opportunity, I would also like to go to Strasbourg. Let me say this through Mr Van Apeldoorn in the direction of Mr Kox. I have said before, but I would like to repeat it here, that I myself think it is wonderful that he is going to do that. As far as I am concerned, he is extremely qualified for that. It is also very good news for the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ballekom asked about the enlargement process. I understand him in such a way that he actually says: can we not put respect for the rule of law at the basis of that accession process? I would really like to refer there to the methodology we agreed on two years ago. That is really, in my view, an important improvement, because that does not necessarily mean that it is a road that is only progressing, but that you can put candidate countries that are throwing their hats at it or just back-boying it back in the process. I think that's very sensible, but that's something you should maintain. What remains uncomfortable is that once you have climbed over the last hurdle, the instruments, at least at the moment, are too limited. That is, of course, the inconvenience now with Hungary and Poland. However, I am positive about the Copenhagen criteria and the conditions, that we also pay more attention to the rule of law and how we have managed to adapt the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u91	I would like to ask the Minister about the Court of Auditors' report as follows. In other words, the 700 million we have allocated has had little effect. I would remind the Minister of his own words: once you are inside, we have very few tools to take corrective action. Shouldn't it be conditional on having one's own house in order before being admitted as a new Member State? Otherwise, the instrument that is already blunt becomes even more blunt than it already is. I haven't heard about this conditionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u92	The Court's document and recommendations are well in line with the Dutch commitment. Questions have also been asked, I thought by Mr Van Dijk and others who I will answer in the very short term. Then I'll go into it in more detail. I understand very well what Mr Van Ballekom has to say here. The question is whether this is entirely fair to those Member States that have been working for so long and are also in the process of which we have just said that there is a forward but also a backward one. I do not know whether it is the shortest way to achieve the goal if we tell those Member States that we are going to change that process again because of Poland and Hungary. In fact, I would very much like to use this debate in order to make a harder link for everyone, including those who are already in it. Otherwise you will have two groups of Member States coming in. You have the Member States under the old criteria. In doing so, you will continue to have the same discussion as we have with Poland and Hungary. And the newcomers would suddenly be subject to new criteria. There's something uncomfortable about that, too. I see Mr Van Ballekom shaking his head, so maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u93	I disagree. That would only apply if the Court of Auditors' report were very positive, if the Court of Auditors had concluded: we have spent 700 million and we have actually seen a difference, namely that these Member States that are still to join the European Union have made efforts to implement reforms. No, it says they haven't made any progress. On the contrary, they've even made progress. So it doesn't go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u94	Mr Van Ballekom and I fully agree on this. But then you'll be back in the current procedure. I had understood Mr Van Ballekom in such a way, namely that you have done everything right throughout the accession process, after which accession is a fact, and that there is then a problem with the rule of law, that you then decide to throw a hat at it. I understood him so that there would still have to be a different mechanism for the new entrants than for the Member States that are already members of the Union. That seems complicated to me. What I very much agree with him, and again, I will return to the questions put in writing, is that there are all kinds of concerns in the Court's report and that we are going to use them because the rule of law is also very clearly mentioned in those Copenhagen criteria to settle this discussion at the front. If we do not have enough comfort, enlargement cannot take place. But that's what's in the current trajectory for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u95	I had understood Mr Van Ballekom a little differently, but perhaps I should speak on my own behalf rather than try to interpret Mr Van Ballekom's words. I would like to present the following idea to the Minister, which I thought was Mr Van Ballekom's idea, namely that you are not going to make demands on candidate countries other than what we have done in the past, so that they have to meet something that the current Member States of Poland and Hungary should not comply with, but that you ensure that the Copenhagen criteria are enforceable and enforceable for all current Member States and candidate countries. So it is only after we have settled this, namely that we can better enforce the standards of the democratic rule of law, that we say: now we are ready for a new round of enlargement, and not before. In that sense, we can learn from the past. The mistake we made at the time, I think, was that I said that in my first term too, we all admitted those countries when they might not have been ready, but above all that we made sure that there was no mechanism to enforce it once they were admitted to the club.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u96	An extra dimension is added to the debate as Mr Van Apeldoorn does an exegesis of what Van Ballekom might have meant. That is one in the category of which your predecessor, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u97	At least it's a question from me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u98	Then I'm just gonna answer it. Maybe that's the easiest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u99	I can add that Mr Van Apeldoorn gives the correct interpretation of my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u100	Then I'm gonna take three things apart, because I think it's important to separate. You have the normal entry path. I just said a few things about that. That's one. Two. You have the route... I had apparently mistakenly understood Mr Van Ballekom: should you not force those countries that have joined but then still throw the hat at it, on the front, to another type of membership, in which you can intervene? I misunderstood that, but I've just tried to argue that I don't think that's wise. With the help of Mr Van Apeldoorn, I understand Mr Van Ballekom in such a way that he says: no, before you allow a Member State at all, you must have implemented those Copenhagen criteria again in all the existing Member States of the Union. Then I'm back to my answer in category 1. I do not think that is reasonable for the Member States that are now in the waiting room. I think you should be strict, just and dedicated in the journey to those countries. In the meantime, I think you have to deal with Poland and Hungary in particular, but of course it applies to all 27 Member States of the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u101	I just don't understand why that wouldn't be fair to those countries. In the end, I think we all have an interest in not increasing the crisis of the rule of law in the EU that is already in place. We now have problems with Poland, Hungary and Slovenia, but also with other countries. Soon you will allow countries to join, Mr Van Ballekom rightly points out the report of the European Court of Auditors, which you already see, despite investment, that insufficient progress is being made and that there is even a decline in the state of law, corruption and so on. You'll let him in later. Then we have these limited instruments. Article 7 is not working. We talked about the intergroup procedure, MFK et cetera. That's all not enough. Next, the problem is only getting bigger and before you know it, you are threatening to risk the EU's survival. My group would also very much regret that. I would therefore like to ask the Minister again if he wishes to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u102	Let me be a little more complete. Mr Van Apeldoorn is, of course, right: it is not just about honesty and the agreements with those Member States, but also about what is sensible. I think it is wise not to say to that group of Member States that we will not talk until we have settled our own business, but to try to do both in parallel, knowing that it is both extremely difficult. So you continue on the path where you say to the 27: listen, we are in need of a review in the discussion about the rule of law. That is going to be much easier, and I refer you to my reply just now when that statement of 16 February gives ammo to that effect. In addition, we are continuing the dialogue on enlargement, and we are doing so rigorously, fairly, but also with regard to those candidate countries themselves. I would add that the Member States that are now in the waiting room are still pretty much at the start of the discussions, precisely because of what Mr Van Ballekom rightly refers to. Again, I will not uncover everything that I am going to use these parliamentary questions for, but there are, of course, concerns about the rule of law, including in some of those countries, and there are concerns about the degree of convergence. I very much agree with Van Ballekom. I also very much agree with Van Apeldoorn, because that is how I understood him. Beware that you are sufficiently sharp on the front, otherwise you will be potentially sorry if they are admitted to the Union. That is in our interest, but also in their own interest. I very much agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u103	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u104	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. I understand it can be parallel. I am not against that in itself, but of course it is about order and timing when you decide at some point to admit the candidate countries. I repeat Mr Van Ballekom's words: if we do not have our own house in order, we should not do so. So it's fine to do it in parallel, but at some point we'll have to move forward on the first point, the persistence of the rule of law within the EU, before you finally take that step. Otherwise we have learned nothing from the past and make the same mistakes again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u105	I very much agree with it in itself. Let's try to learn from the past. I find it so uncomfortable that, in the case of Poland and Hungary, it is not really about what we did not do right at the time. You can see that, especially in the case of Hungary, but also in that of Poland, a number of steps have been taken back to dimensions such as the judiciary, free elections, the rule of law and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u106	I have a comment on the theme of joining and how we deal with the waiting people. I made a plea in my speech to speed that up. If you always leave them in the waiting room, and they've been in the waiting room for a long time, then the motivation goes away. Then we run another risk. They will no longer join the European community, but then join other collectives. We're probably gonna be very sorry about that. You should at least avoid that. It cannot be the case that, because of the EU's indecision, we keep other countries waiting for them to be entitled to do so. I support your statement that we should both do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u107	Thank you very much. It sounds a little uncourteous, but I in turn cannot fully support Mr Raven's speech. I am going to stick to what I just said to Mr Van Apeldoorn: these Copenhagen criteria are essential and guiding in the accession process. I also share with him the inconvenience of some of those Member States. I can see that myself, of course. They say 'you should see what steps we have already taken', and the European Union says 'yes, but look at what steps are still needed'. And yet it is in the great interest of the candidate countries themselves and of the European Union as a whole that countries really need to become members and have fulfilled all these criteria. I really agree with Van Ballekom and Van Apeldoorn. Otherwise, we'll pay a price for that later. That is therefore essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u108	I do not want to lose my way in this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u109	Imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u110	...but I'm losing it now. If I am correct, and I have been able to experience it a number of times, the Copenhagen criteria are guiding. That is where the rule of law is now settled. If one fails to do so, that is an assessment made by the Commission and also by the Council of Ministers, then one is not proposed to become a member either. That's one. Secondly, we do not have the problem until they are members. That is why the instruments must change. But, on its own, the criteria and the strict supervision of them are leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u111	Mrs. Oomen has not lost her way at all. It is an intervention that I can put away in the category'support of policy'. I very much agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u112	I think the Minister was right to say that there are two processes. Putting Member States in order who are already members when things are not right there is one thing. And the other thing is allowing the other. I also mentioned parallel trials this morning, and I think that's good. In a way, he said: those candidate countries are only at the beginning of the discussions and we need to do them very carefully. Of course we must do it very carefully, Mrs Oomen also says. But isn't it true that, according to the Dutch Government, a country such as North Macedonia can already join, for example, but that this is only blocked by Bulgaria? Some Member States are already far beyond what you thought you were suggesting. Is that how I see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u113	There is a great difference between the Member States. That's right. But what strikes me in every dialogue is that Member States point out what they have already done. I note the dialogue with countries that are members of the Union, but not yet Schengen. In my role as Finance Minister, I noticed Member States that have not yet been allowed to implement the euro. I also notice that enlargement dossier. Mr Koole is absolutely right. Maybe I should have put that more specifically. There is a great distinction between these Member States, but the common thread is every time Member States themselves point out what they have already done to join Schengen, to be able to adopt the euro and become members of the Union. And then the Union reminds Member States like the Netherlands time and time again that there are very serious criteria that need to be fully met.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u114	We are in complete agreement on that. I understand, therefore, that the Dutch Government still believes that a country such as North Macedonia is ready to join, but that this has not yet been possible due to circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u115	I'm going to put it very specifically. If Mr Koole needs it, I will come back to that in the second term, if necessary, because enlargement is always sensitive. It is not the case that this cabinet has taken a different path than the previous one. As far as he'd like that confirmation, here's to it. With this barrage of interruptions, I've answered a lot of questions in this block. I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that EU accession to the ECHR is an important political signal. Mrs Huizinga also asked for this. She also asked about Strasbourg and the tightening of the tires. I have just done so by saying to Mr Van Apeldoorn. Mrs Huizinga also asked about the impact of EU funding on justice, rights and values and whether it is necessary to step up this support. The aim of this programme is to promote the rights and values of the Union, as described in Article 2 and in the Charter. Projects will only be financed from that fund if they contribute to it. It started mid 2021. We always want to evaluate and do more of it, but I think we need to wait and see what benefits we can reap from it. Mrs Huizinga's question on the legal challenges facing Poland and Hungary has been adequately addressed. Mr. Chairman. I've run out of instruments and I've got a few other things. I have understood the VVD as 'the Commission is actually the guardian of the treaties' and 'the Commission does not put it too much on the Member States?'. I understand Mr Backer in this way: what are the initiatives of the cabinet to make the Commission more active and courageous? I think those were literally his words. Mrs Oomen, I think I have come across her remarks in this category of dilemma logic. What is very important here is that the Member States fully support the Commission, because I agree with Van Ballekom that this is the first step. I think we should take initiative ourselves, but we are looking at the Member States, although informally, of course. The Commission is also well aware of its playing field. If everyone looks in the opposite direction on these very sensitive matters, then one might conclude that the Member States do not think it is important. That makes me very much in agreement with Mr Van Ballekom that the committee is primarily concerned, but that I have understood Mrs Oomen and Mr Backer in such a way that it is important to send the message through the inner line, not only as the Netherlands but ideally together with France, Germany, Italy and other countries: people, this is very important, so we will support you in this type of process. It is not always possible: sometimes that can be public and sometimes that will be informal. Moreover, not only is the position of the Netherlands important, but of course also of a lot of other Member States. Once again, I am certainly not going to reduce our position in Europe to a smaller one than it is, but let us be honest: the Commission will rightly see that the specific weight of France and Germany is a category larger than ours. There is always a strong focus on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u116	Do I understand correctly that, where the European Commission is the initiator of the infringements, at the time when this government is asked to support the Commission, it is no longer going to sit back, that the Germans are not doing so anymore and that you are going to take everything out of the box to make sure that everyone keeps the Commission's proposals going forward? We all know how long it took with Hungary and what the reasons were. That is no longer the case with everything that has been said in the coalition agreement. You will actively support the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u117	Of course, I always have two things to do with it. It depends on what initiative the Commission is going to take. You're gonna have to judge that on his merits. The second is the question of how fundamental the rule of law is to this whole debate. Are you willing to walk for that and take co-responsibility for that? I think you should do that as a Member State. Mr Van Ballekom rightly says that you leave that to the Commission at first, but at the moment when the Netherlands is being looked at with the question "Do you support us when we pick up that glove" you must give the signal that you will indeed do so. Again, preferably in combination with a large number of other Member States. It also contains my answer to Mrs Karimi's question on the state complaint procedure. She just reminded me of that. My belief is that it is by far the wisest to have this taken up by the Commission as guardian of the treaties. I would like to link Mrs Oomen's question to this: can you give your support? Going through a state complaint procedure on your own is more than one bat in the cowboy's loft. I understand the thought on my own, but I'd like to be careful with that. Mr. Chairman. A few other things about refugees and matters concerning the Constitution. What is the case in the Netherlands and what is the case in Europe? Mr Van Dijk asked about the position of the Dutch cabinet. This is also something that cannot be changed in view of our Constitution and the coalition agreement that we are playing a leading role in promoting gender equality. We also do this within the EU. This is also about very other things that affect matters that we consider important in the area of Article 1. I would like to remind you once again that we are really concerned about developments in the European Union in the area of freedom of choice and women's rights. I think there are, of course, all kinds of things that Member States themselves are about. That's one side of the coin. The other side of the coin is: if you look at the ECHR and at Article 1 of our Constitution, it will in no way tolerate, for example, the articles on the Ihbti-free zones. That's incompatible with each other. It's important to remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u118	I'm a little freaked out about this. After all, with one arm swing, the EU is moving towards areas that have never been handed over to Brussels by Member States: the well-known areas of family and marriage, or medical ethics, such as abortion, which has also passed. But through the link of human rights, the EU is suddenly saying: this is our area too. Does the Minister see that risk? And how far does this go?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u119	That is why it is also important to formulate very precisely. There are things that the Member States are about. That is the part that Mr Van Dijk has pointed out, but which, moreover, has its limitations in matters that apply to the whole of the Union. Take, for example, the gay marriage we have in the Netherlands. This cabinet thinks that's a great thing. So we will always argue that it is wise to make that gay marriage possible. But, and Mr Van Dijk is right about that, that is not something the European Union prescribes. It is up to Member States themselves to introduce it or not. At the same time, such a discussion is about discrimination, which, of course, immediately affects the principle of equality. Then we are at the ECHR, in matters that are also enshrined in the Dutch Constitution. And then you have a completely different discussion. For me, it's important to sort it out. With all due respect to the various speakers here, the debate sometimes got a bit messy. So I very much agree with everyone who says: take something like gay marriage, isn't that very important? Then I say yes. And to those who say 'but gay marriage is the prerogatives of the Member States', I also say: yes. And to those who say 'on any ground, whether sexual orientation, gender or whatever, there must be no discrimination in any of those Member States', I say again: yes. But I think it's important to separate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u120	This is really complicated, because you can't say yes or no. Do Member States have the right to permanently reject gay marriage? And are they just full-fledged, legitimate members in the EU? What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u121	That is precisely why I am trying to formulate as precisely as possible. At the moment, it is simply the case that cases related to gay marriage are reserved for Member States. I am not aware that the Union or others are trying to change that. As a member of this cabinet, I would add that this cabinet considers it extremely sensible that this is regulated in the Dutch Constitution. We are dealing with this; I am in favour of that. It is up to Member States themselves to decide whether or not to do so. I believe that the Union also has to respect the fact that there are Member States that may be making a different assessment than the Dutch Government did earlier. They will then find Mr Van Dijk by their side. But it's important that you don't follow up on denying someone's gay partner a residence permit. Then you will certainly come into conflict with Union law. That's why I'm tearing these things apart. There are things that really apply to the whole of the Union and there are things that do not apply to the whole of the Union. We can then have different views on this, whether or not we regard certain policies in a particular Member State as positive. I fully respect that Mr Van Dijk has a different view on this than, for example, Mrs Karimi, who has just interfered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u122	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u123	Finally, a very small point. This isn't easy for us to talk about. Maybe I still want to do one very concrete test. I quoted the Matić report, in which abortion is positioned as a human right. The EP gave a positive opinion on this. Does the Minister support the statement that the EU is not about abortion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u124	I would like to put it very precisely. I am going to go back in the second term to what was and was not agreed on, but let me say the following with some caution at the moment. I refer to my previous reply. There are things that the European Union really is all about and that all Member States have to comply with, and there are things that often touch on this type of subject that the Member States themselves are about. This also applies to the government's view that the right to abortion must be guaranteed in the Netherlands. Mr Van Dijk will disagree, but he will recognize that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole and Mrs Karimi asked about a few issues concerning abuses at the border. I'm gonna take a look at them and see if I can do it like this. Your Chamber and at least the House of Representatives have been informed a number of times about what is going on, the concerns we have about it and how to proceed. In view of the time, I was thinking of sharing with the Chamber the matters that I had previously sent to the House of Representatives. Let me see if the two speakers can agree with that. If they want me to go into that extensively, I can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u125	That seems fine to me, but that is not enough for me. I was explicitly asked by the Cabinet to give an appreciation of the opinion on that issue of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs. The question was whether the government is prepared to accept the recommendations of the Advisory Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u126	I'd like to select in that. I will come back to that in the second term. I have no objection to answering this in the debate, but that is a very next register. I am sure that we will have a longer exchange of views on this matter. Let me at least answer that question in the second term. Mr Koole and Mrs Karimi were the two most important questioners. If they say "let's do it all," I'll keep that letter in the bag and we'll discuss it. I think the fact that the large number of questions in the House of Representatives is more effective in making the Chamber a part of them first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u127	That's fine. I would just like to see a specific answer to the questions. We have indeed received a number of letters so far, but each time the rulers remain in the field about their own responsibility or co-responsibility for what is actually happening at the border. If you answer that correctly, it is fine for me that you should do so by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u128	Then let me choose the short pain. I am going to have to refer to my previous answers. They are that Member States are primarily responsible for this. Some of the pushback cases are currently under way. They're under the judge right now. Mrs. Karimi must have that sharp. I cannot go any further than I have mentioned in the letters on the specific position of other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u129	That wasn't my question. My question was as follows. For example, the Netherlands is also a member of Frontex's management board. The Netherlands makes staff and equipment available to Frontex, and also to a country like Lithuania that has now, for example, officially made pushbacks part of the legislation. My question is how the Dutch Government sees its own or co-responsibility in these situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u130	I'll get back to you in a minute. At least that applies to this question, but perhaps we should do the whole palette. I think that's wiser. It seemed more procedurally convenient to do so in writing, but I am happy to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u131	If the Minister then comes back to this in the second term, I would ask him not only to return to Mrs Karimi's questions, but not just to whether the recommendations of the Advisory Council will be adopted. I think that is a very important question. I think we also share the view of the government of allowing a derogation or derogation for countries such as Poland or the Baltic States. In this way, they do not have to comply with the European agreed right of asylum on this point. How temporary is that? Is that even gonna be final? I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u132	I am going to try to distinguish in the second term between a few of the questions in this category and the other questions. If you can't do that, I'm just gonna make more of it. It was more about you wanting to take a break at 5:30 p.m. I thought I could finish it all before the break. I'm gonna take this back after that. At least I will come back to those two questions. Mr. Chairman. I have some other things in the category. A great deal of attention has rightly been paid to the conference on the future of the EU. Mrs Huizinga felt that there should be even more visibility for that debate. Frankly, I think that we have really tried, in the Netherlands, in France, in Germany and in a number of other Member States, to include civil panels. I have seen it as an encouragement to give more publicity to it in a moment. I assure her that at least we will do so around the conference. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer asked about the research of the Hague University of Applied Sciences and about wanting to be a leader in the European Union. In that report I recognize that this good coordination is also really the strength of how the Netherlands manages to operate. The IOB actually states: yes, but it can be even more strategic. I think it's right that you always look at that. It can always be even more strategic, is my experience. I think you should just take that feedback. At the moment, we are in the process of adjusting interdepartmentally how to further decorate that approach. Mrs Oomen asked: it is quite often left open by the legislator when it comes to reaching a compromise, can you also say that responsibly in the Council? Yeah, I'd like to do that. It is also something that Mrs Oomen has been poked and smashed in the Brussels version of inevitability that is sometimes necessary in order to reach a compromise. But I understand her encouragement very well, so I'm gonna work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u133	I would like to announce that I will indeed suspend at 5.30 p.m. until 6.30 p.m., also in connection with a number of committees, regardless of where we are. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u134	I won't be the one to stop that, Mr. Chairman. I also had a very practical question, but it may be with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's also about hands, about people, about FTEs. All these things need to be done. All these questions that are asked here, all these BNC-fiches need to be written: are we sufficiently equipped? Is this being looked at and implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u135	Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. It is true, by the way, what Mr Backer says: these chips are a huge job. Every weekend I get a whole new pile of presents. The annotations and the trailer alone cover an x number of pages, let alone the chips themselves. I have the impression that, although I am sure that can be done even better, we are quite well equipped to do so, that it will come into official maintenance and then just come back to the cabinet. So my impression is yes, but I like to be recommended for improvements in that process. Mr Van Ballekom asked me to say that, in my view, I am prepared to use the legal points of the debate on the future and on the conference. I'd love to. Mrs Huizinga asked whether the democratic functioning of EU decision-making was sufficiently transparent. The Netherlands is taking on similar countries in this respect. I also recognise this discussion entirely from my previous capacity. I would like more on this point, although some things are also just confidential. In dialogue with the House of Representatives, but also with like-minded countries, I will try to see if we can ensure more transparency for the conference, but also wider. I think that was also Mr Van Apeldoorn's appeal. Mr Van Apeldoorn had the specific question of whether the Commission itself would have done something wrong with those e-mails. It is not for me to comment on whether the European Commission has acted in breach of EU rules. I hope he forgives me for being able to judge him on that, must and will remain. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one last piece. I understand Mr Van Rooijen very well, of course. He has made a very detailed reference to geopolitics and topicality. I can imagine that very well in itself, because everyone who reads the newspaper is of course very concerned about what is going on. Mr Van Rooijen had a lot of very legitimate questions about the issue, about the dialogue and about seeking a diplomatic solution. He also asked what the Prime Minister and I did there last week. But since this debate is already as rich as we are restricting it only to the rule of law, I have chosen to preserve it geopolitically until the debate on the state of the Union. I would like to assure Mr Van Rooijen that I will also send the letter of a number of pages that I have sent to the House of Representatives, on how the cabinet looks at this problem and on what we have done in Ukraine, to the Senate. Then Mr Van Rooijen can also take note of this. But with your permission, Mr President, because I know how much you attach to the debate, I did not think I should make it a separate cup of Ukraine and geo-problem, no matter how important. Mr. Chairman. That brings me, I thought, to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u136	On transparency. If it turns out, as a number of researchers have said, that the European Commission is not very transparent and that there is a problem with public administration, then that should also be a concern of the Dutch Government. But let me ask you another question. In this context, I also referred to a fact that has to do with it, namely that much decision-making is actually being prepared behind closed doors in official working groups. No minutes will be made or they will be secret. Sometimes they're retrievable, but it takes years. It is about the Member States. There is still a problem of transparency. Does the Minister recognise that much is still needed in the area of transparency within the EU? And is the government prepared to commit itself, also on the basis of previous commitments, to improve this transparency? It is not just about the Commission, but also about the councils, the administrative working groups and the trilogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u137	I was inclined to say "yes" and "yes," but then there was a rather long shade of colour behind it for whom all that should apply. I would like to assure the Chamber, and Mr Van Apeldoorn in particular, that I will continue to work on this. I have done so explicitly in the previous period, and I have done so in conjunction with the three rapporteurs in the previous Chamber from the Finance Committee, who then had similar criticisms of the functioning of the euro group and the lack of transparency there. I say honestly: that was with varying success. This theme is very high on the agenda in the Netherlands. We have an unprecedented degree of transparency compared to many other Member States and Brussels. But I'm gonna get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u138	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u139	Yeah, finally. I welcome the promise that the Minister will continue to do so. Perhaps we will discuss it further in the General European Reviews, which is also a very important point for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u140	I have no illusions about that. That theme will return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u141	I assume it's a coincidence that after an hour and a half the Minister mentions my name, but at 5:28 p.m., so he can't answer either. I would like to ask him to answer my six questions after the break, because I do not accept this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u142	I'll take a look at you, Mr. Chairman. I understood Mr Van Rooijen and, as always, I wanted to answer the questions adequately. But I have also heard you say what the scope of this debate should be. I have spoken very extensively with the House of Representatives and also debated geopolitics in Ukraine. That is how I understood Mr Van Rooijen's questions. In general, I say that I did not mention the spokesman every time I asked a question. If questions from the first block were also asked by Mr Van Rooijen, I hope he understands the answers as well as given to him. But I'll leave it to you, Mr. Chairman, to do another separate block of geopolitics. I did not believe that this should have been specifically the case in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u143	Would it be okay, Mr. President, if the Minister would come back to it after the break? I understand that, in view of today's subject, he finds this a little on the edge of the subject. Yeah, I get that. But I indicated, also in response to Mr Van Apeldoorn, that I wonder, and especially the elderly who have been through the war, what will happen in the next few days and weeks. That is why I went into detail about something that was discussed between Schulz and Biden yesterday and between Macron and Putin for six hours. The Minister can say something about that, can't he? And does he want to do that after the break, because 5:30 is 5:30?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u144	Here's what I'm gonna do. Let me make some preliminary remarks on this at the beginning of my second term. With Mr Van Rooijen's approval, I am going to limit it somewhat. I discussed this with the House of Representatives for ten hours last week. I've also sent several letters about it. I simply understood that it was not part of this debate. But I am going to give a summary of the summary at the beginning of my second term with all kinds of pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u145	Fine. I see Mr Van Rooijen nodding. We are going to do it this way, and we are going to do it as much as possible to the European dimension of the rule of law. Then I'll suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u146	The next item is the continuation of the government's first-term response. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Knapen on his swearing in. I very much liked to hear you, President, say warm words about Mr Suharno's contribution to this Chamber over the past period. Thank you to those Members who have expressed their congratulations for being allowed to serve as Minister. The President knows that I have had the pleasure of standing in this Chamber before. That was as a Member of Parliament, and that concerned own-initiative legislation. It is a special honour to be present in this Chamber as a minister. Like my foreign minister, I too have to get used to the environment we have here in relation to the beautiful view of your room in the classic location. It is an extremely important subject that we are discussing today. It concerns the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in the European Union. Of course, it is also about the state of affairs in the Netherlands as a Member State of that Union. Several of your members have talked about the fact that the Netherlands and the Union influence each other and cannot do without each other. Without a healthy democracy and the rule of law in the Netherlands, there is no healthy and effective European Union. The recent period has also shown that the rule of law in the Netherlands requires, needs, needs and needs to be built on. The relationship between state powers needs to be considered, as several of your members pointed out, as well as respect for fundamental rights, including the prohibition of discrimination, the functioning of the principle of proportionality and the relationship between administration and citizens, to give just a few examples. In the answers, I also say to Mr Van Rooijen, I will come back to that. Mr. Chairman. As Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, I am therefore determined to support the strengthening of the democratic rule of law. This democratic rule of law is actually the essential and ultimate framework within which peaceful, safe and healthy living together is possible. The values of the democratic rule of law legitimise, standardise and limit government action, thereby anchoring and guiding public trade. Everyone benefits from a well-functioning democratic rule of law. It is therefore my commitment, together with the Foreign Minister, to continue to stand up for that democratic rule of law, both here in the Netherlands and within the European Union. Let me briefly mention a number of things. I shall, of course, return to it in the answer to the questions. First of all, it is a question of supporting colleagues' approach to the very worrying state of law developments in a number of EU Member States. My colleague will come back to that in the second term. Protecting public values and fundamental rights online is also an important spearhead. In reply to questions from Mrs Huizinga and Mrs Oomen, I shall also come back to disinformation. Of course, I am actively involved in the European proposals to protect and renew democracy in the'reinforcing democracy and integrity of selections' package. Mr. Koole, I didn't know the English language needed a translation here, but I'll remember that for the next time. In the Dutch translation: we strengthen the democratic content and integrity of the elections and that is a complete package. Finally, of course, I am also committed to intergovernmental cooperation, including at European level. Several of your colleagues spoke about the issue of the fourth layer of administration. I believe that Mr Koole has also spoken about this. As you can see, cooperation from Brussels, from cities, provinces, municipalities and also from a country, has taken a very concrete form, for example, in the Urban Agenda. Mr. Chairman. Questions have been asked on many subjects. I now have three blocks to answer the questions: first, the democratic rule of law and institutions and the rule of law, including the quality of legislation, Article 51 of the Charter, the constitutional review, the hardness clauses and also the questions on the criminal law approach. Then there is an extraordinary and more extensive piece on different types of subjects that are no less important. It includes the approach to disinformation, working on the integrity of our public administration and the steps we need to take together in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with Mr Koole's questions, because he said so beautifully that he had written a book that is a very beautiful book. Oh, that's what Mr. Backer said. I know I have to be careful here, because many of you have written different types of books in the Chamber. It concerns the tension between the independent supervision and democratic control of the executive and the reflex indicated by Mr Koole to resolve problems in strengthening the power of an independent institution. I'll just open up: I didn't read the book. Fortunately I have a lot of highly skilled staff at my ministry who have actually read the book from front to back. They have brought me up to speed on the tension that Mr Koole describes in it and how it is important to ensure, within the checks and balances that we have in our rule of law, that you remain in balance and pay attention to one thing and another. The cabinet has said that we need to strengthen independent supervision and democratic control during this period. That is the non-electoral pillar, if I put it so well. That is not just a cabinet thing, because you can see that Members of Parliament are actually making good use of it. They use the independent supervisory reports to ask parliamentary questions, to call directors to the Chamber or to ask officials to provide factual information. A second step in this, which is also included in the coalition agreement, is to promote the independence of an important category, namely that of inspectors, including in the state inspection law. At the same time, of course, you have to keep it in balance. That's what Mr Koole says. If you strengthen the non-electoral pillar, it is also important to look at the electoral pillar. You must therefore ensure that the Chambers are able to exercise their powers sufficiently. That is why, in this coalition agreement, for example, it has been proposed to strengthen the Registry, its legislative quality and so on. That also raised the question in this debate: what about the First Chamber? I must say in all honesty that the discussion on strengthening the First Chamber in this area has not yet become me. But perhaps that will follow in a later meeting, including with this President. In this I may hear where exactly the bottlenecks are. Mr Koole also asked for a reflection on that dualism. I think that is a very good question, because I think it concerns a subject which concerns Mr Koole. I think you had your thoughts on this when you introduced dualisation twenty years ago. With the arrival of the new cabinet, the coalition meeting will no longer take place on Monday morning. That is something of the parties that has, of course, been discussed with each other. But in the past period there has also been more room for discussion between MPs and ministers officials on the various proposals. In these talks, officials can also simply provide Members of Parliament with technical information and the like. Another aspect is that in this coalition agreement a number of subjects have been explicitly chosen to allow matters to be free issues, for example in the field of medical-ethical matters. Mr. Chairman. I now hear from the mobile phone here next to me the inspiring voice of the Foreign Minister. Mr Koole also asked: what about the relationship of trust? The clear separation between the cabinet and the chamber is, of course, a different aspect than the rule of trust that applies between directors and the Chamber. Trust is the basis on which the cabinet functions. But that trust can also work very well if you simply separate the roles and responsibilities in the dualist system. That is also the character of that trust. However, I would also like to hear it from Mr Koole if I have not understood his question correctly. Mr Otten stated in that context...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u148	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u149	We have a technical problem with the interrupting microphone. We're just gonna suspend for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u150	Go ahead, Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u151	I'm going to the microphone anyway, because I only have one minute left in my second term, so I'd better ask now. The minister calls it dualism. Thank you also for the fine words about my book Two pillars: the shaky balance in the democratic rule of law. That is precisely what I have to say about the trust rule. In that book I claim that the Dutch system is not necessarily dualistic at all. That doesn't say anything. We only have that the ministers cannot be Members of Parliament. But for the rest there is, in fact, one by nature also a monistic part, to some extent. It's actually kind of a hybrid system. But that hybrid system ensures that there must always be a connection with the majority, to some extent, of Parliament. This is certainly true in the relationship between the government and the House of Representatives, because the government needs that confidence. How do you, on the basis of this, give shape to the controlling role of the Chamber, which is urgently needed and which the coalition agreement states should also be strengthened? My question was: why not also the First Chamber? Certainly with such a debate, I think: also the First Chamber. We have a fantastic Griffin, but it is sometimes quite under pressure from time to time. When it comes to European provisions, there is always room for improvement. I would be very grateful if you would have a discussion with the President on this subject. I'll give you that as a suggestion and I'd like the Minister's response to it. But my question was actually about: how, given the relationship of trust that should exist, do you shape a controlling role of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u152	Thank you for that clarification, I say to Mr Koole. What is important here is that Members of Parliament, and that is what we are talking about now, are the right instruments to do their job properly. This starts with a good Bureau of Legislation to shape Parliament's co-legislative role and to have sufficient capacity, for example, to bring about amendments. It is also about the Department of Analysis and Research of the Chamber, which can help in a broad sense to support the Chamber and its members in asking the right questions. What I also see is that, through the Jetten motion adopted in 2019, more funding has become available to strengthen the support of the MPs themselves. Whatever you see in that, and I also like to see it, is that the Chamber itself, which I believe was the Van der Staaij Committee, has looked at what steps it can take to further strengthen its role as a supervisory authority and a co-legislative body. This is, among other things, by working more with rapporteurs, which, of course, is more common in the European Parliament. This means, on the one hand, that as Minister of Finance for the Chamber I have made possible in the coalition agreement. The Chamber itself, of course, deals with its budget. On the other hand, the Chamber itself is looking at what it can improve, also in connection with the parliamentary system committee. I believe that we are taking a number of good steps along these two lines to ensure that Members of Parliament can actually control what the cabinet is doing and can co-law where they are heading for a different direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u153	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u154	I'm not taking advantage of the situation. I thank the Minister for this commitment. We see the proposals that come out of it, of course, coming through here. I can guarantee the Minister that I will make my contribution to this. I hereby offer a copy of my book in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u155	Thank you. This was about the House of Representatives. Mr Koole asked if I could draw up the agenda for the discussion with the President. That is up to the President, but I think it would be a good idea to discuss this Chamber in a broad sense as well. I was not aware that there are certain questions there. Mr. Chairman. On the Financing Act, Mr Otten indicated that he felt that the monitoring of the law at the moment was not sufficiently secure. He'd like a strengthening in that. When it comes to the legislative proposal following the review of the Finance Act, political parties that is now in the Lower House: the advisory law of the Supervisory Finance Committee political parties that we have had for several years, is extended to the whole law. That was only a limited part of the law, but that's gonna be the whole law. That does not yet provide for the independent supervisory role Mr Otten mentioned. I would like to say to him that when it comes to the Political Parties Act in preparation, I would like to look explicitly at a more independent role of the supervisor when it comes to the position of political parties. This bill is currently being prepared and will not pass this Chamber until later. I intend to consult the Political Parties Act at the end of this year. When it comes to the parliamentary treatment of the Evaluation Act Financing Political Parties Act, in which supervision is widened across the law, it is intended that the Chamber will have it on its agenda in one or two weeks' time. These were the questions about democratic institutions. Then I'll get to the state of law. This concerns the hardness clauses, Article 120 Constitution, constitutional review, the question of legislative quality and also Article 51 of the Charter. Not only Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Van Rooijen, but others have also pointed out that the Netherlands should also look in the mirror as far as the rule of law is concerned. We must be aware of the steps that we ourselves have to improve. Several Members have mentioned, among other things, the payment affair, which is also a real scar in our rule of law. Our feeling about this is that what happened to the childcare allowance should never have happened and should never have happened again. It is also good that we have a broad, critical and administrative reflection on our own actions. The Secretary of State for Finance, together with the other ministries, is currently making every effort to do the best possible justice to those affected, both financially and emotionally. Much has already been done there. Ultimately, it is about strengthening a government that is reliable, serviceable, close and just. This is not just about concrete actions in connection with the childcare allowance, but also about the report of the Public Administration Council, the recommendations of the Venice Commission and the State Rule of Law Committee to be set up. This Rule of Law Committee must, in a broad sense, analyse the functioning of the rule of law and also come forward with proposals to strengthen it. The draft mandate for the State Commission has also recently been shared with this Chamber. My aim is to send the reaction to the Venice Commission's report, with the cabinet position, to the Chamber at the beginning of this year, this first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u156	Thanks to the Minister. I would like to add one thing on this point. We see in the premium affair how incredibly complicated it is to deliver customization in a system so large, with such large numbers, that it seemed fair to import, but not to restore it. I would like to say to the State Commission or the Minister, or at least as a reflection, that in the legislative process that question is put at the beginning: is there a possibility of repair, within normal legal standards? 'Cause that's what's really problematic here right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u157	This is a key question which I believe we must address in the context of the recovery that we must make in the wake of this terrible affair. This is, among other things, about the quality of legislation. I will return to Mr Van Rooijen's question in a moment. But it is also about applying the principle of proportionality in the General Administrative Law Act, where you can also weigh unfair outcomes differently. It is, of course, also about the commitment we now have to identify hard spots in legislation. Detecting harshness in legislation happens at the end of the journey, but that will teach us to analyse what we can do better at the beginning of legislation. This requires not only to have very good legislative quality, but also to make sure that legislation, policy and practice are really in the same place. Let me put it this way: as a military man, I've always learned that if you make a plan for a military operation, you can throw that plan in the trash after crossing the starting line, because practice never adheres to your plan. This is without prejudice to the fact that, precisely from our responsibility as legislators, we must ensure that we not only have the legislation in place and have the policy in place, but also know how to measure and assess the effects on practice in advance. One of the things that I am currently working on as a minister is an implementation test, including on the legislation of local authorities, to check at the front whether what is happening is ultimately feasible with the means, instruments and powers that go with it. This is a small example in a broader process that we have to go through with each other, but this is to give an idea of it. This also gives me the opportunity to respond directly to Mr Backer's good question and Mr Van Rooijen's justified question, namely: work on this quality of legislation. Yeah, they're really working on it right now. We are working to further strengthen legislative quality, with simplicity, human size and feasibility at the forefront. That is a portfolio that the Minister for Legal Protection and the Minister for Justice and Security are currently picking up. This is about further strengthening the quality of policies and legislation along different lines that apply to them. It is essential that this is not only done, but that, as I have just said, we also look at injustices and harshness in legislation at the moment. We are in the process of setting up a consultation that will be published one of these days. In doing so, people can indicate where legislation is unlawful in advance and where repair should take place. Of course, all state powers have a role to play in this. Mr Van Rooijen said the same thing. It's not just the legislator. It's also the Public Prosecutor's Office and the justice system. They are also in the process of reflecting on themselves. I would also like to say to Mr Van Rooijen that it is simply important to discuss this with each other. With the Minister for Legal Protection, I am in the process of discussing the General Administrative Law Act and, however we look at it, whether we can make the "citizen-oriented', which is being said, a more human-oriented word and better apply the principle of proportionality there. The question is whether this hardness clause becomes the panacea for all solutions. No, he should never be. The hardness clause must sometimes be in a law. It is intended in the case where a just law has unjust outcomes for those to whom the law relates. A hardness clause in its nature is always an ultimatum remedium. If you have to apply a hardness clause very often in a law, you have to ask yourself after a few times whether you have made the right law. The function of a hardness clause is not to make unjust outcomes unrighteous for those affected by that law. At the same time, if you need a hardness clause very often, you may also conclude that there is something wrong with the law and there is something wrong with the policy. Then you'll have to take on your role as legislator and policymaker again to fix that. That, as I said to the President, is the shaky balance in the democratic rule of law, which Mr Koole has just mentioned. It is also a question of taking things up when you see that they are not going well and perhaps leave more discretion in some legislation in order to arrive at a proper balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u158	Thank you to the Minister for her words on the hardness clause. I have the next question. Is it the government's intention to include a hardness clause in every law now? At some point, you seemed to be able to read that in the coalition agreement. If that is not the case, I assume it is customization and it will be done where it is useful and not in other cases. Then I have a second question. The Minister mentioned the proportionality rule in the Awb. That is Article 4.3, I believe. That would now be applied more. She talked about responsive governments and reflection. If a lot of effort is made on this, these hardness clauses may be less necessary. You can always rely on that principle of proportionality. Does this mean that the government will be on two tracks, i.e. more hardness clauses, not everywhere, but wherever it is necessary, while at the same time strengthening the proportionality principle through the AWB?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u159	Yes. A hardness clause is certainly not applied in every law, but where you estimate that it can work when legislation can lead to unwanted hardnesses. Then you can use such a hardness clause. But, of course, it's first of all in front of him. You also have to ensure, inter alia with the principle of proportionality of the General Administrative Law, that you leave more room for not to reach disproportionately burdensome decisions and that you look at legislation to see if you also have policy space there to make the right assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u160	Okay, I thank the Minister for the answer. Does it also mean that the hardness clause will be limited until such time as these unforeseen consequences develop unfairly? For example, the newly adopted Housing Act contains a hardness clause stating that "the Minister can also intervene if it is contrary to the housing policy." That's what the hardness clause says! That's not what a hardness clause is for. That's a very strange article. You or your colleague for Wonen should take another look at that. That's exactly what I'm afraid of. Such a hardness clause introduces matters which allow the Minister to deviate from the policy without hearing the Chamber. It shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u161	I don't know the specific law. Hardness clauses are designed to prevent unfair outcomes and to act as a government on them. I assume that if this law comes before this Chamber for treatment, questions will still be asked about it. As I was allowed to apply the hardness clause itself in previous qualities, because sometimes local authorities also have hardness clauses, they are really meant for cases where an unjust outcome is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u162	In my speech this afternoon, I spoke about legislative qualities and, in particular, about the craftsmanship of legislation, not the function. This craft requires knowledge, insight, precision and so on. That is much wider than what you just said about looking at human size, feasibility, hardness and hardness. Those are partial aspects. At the heart of my speech, perhaps you will come back to this when you respond to the task forcesuggestion on our part, and this is also about quality, as is the case with ICT. If you don't have the ICT in order, the systems won't work. We now know that in a broad sense...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u163	You need to keep pushing the pedal, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u164	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u165	Otherwise, you won't be able to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u166	It's the first interruption in this room, so it takes some getting used to. As with ICT, it is also necessary in legislative practice to have top quality. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to speak within the cabinet and with the colleagues who are the first to be responsible about how to get top quality lawyers to bring the legislation to quality. I'm not gonna give you any examples, but I have a whole list in my pocket, and I've told you, it'll come later. I would like to mention the Environment Act, which is still to come here in the final phase. It was adopted in 2015 and we have been hiccups here for a long time. This has to do with ICT and municipal finances, but we are trying to make it the biggest post-war legislative project. There are now many doubts, especially in this house, whether it will be okay. If the quality isn't in order, you have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u167	Mr Van Rooijen asks: does the cabinet do enough to strengthen the quality of legislation? My answer to that is yes. We are going to take significant steps along five lines: first talent scouting and then follow-up planning for legal management functions. Mr Van Rooijen knows better than anyone that you are growing up at some point. Then you want people to stay active in that and you have a path through it. It is also a question of inter-departmental mobility policy, so that after a number of years you can also change jobs across departments. The third line is recruitment and image. Legislation is not dusty. They're often the most creative people... that's my experience... that's there, because you have to be able to think very versatile in order to make a law. Furthermore, we also look at common embedding standards. That means you put together a quality mark on what you want to make. Mr Van Rooijen said this as well. The fifth line is also to continue to promote knowledge. Once you're a law lawyer, you're not done learning and improving. You're going through that. We're on those five lines right now. In addition, a constitutional review has been adopted very recently from my ministry. This aims to strengthen the constitutional quality of policy and legislation across ministries. If Mr Van Rooijen asks if we already have a task force, I answer that we are already very busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u168	Will the Minister come back to that when I ask what her response is to my proposal for that task force?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u169	My answer to Mr Van Rooijen's question is that we already have a task force, because along these five lines we are improving the quality of legislation of the people themselves. That is what I hear Mr Van Rooijen say. In addition, on the constitutional side, we made that hand-out. In practice, we are also in the process of consulting on the hardnesses to see how we can change existing legislation. In addition, there is a trace of Article 3.4 of the General Administrative Law Act when it comes to proportionality. I would like to call that a task force together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u170	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u171	Otherwise, we'll get back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u172	Okay, let's push the pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u173	I almost said something about football. I was on the line the other day as a border judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u174	I've seen you standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u175	I've seen how close it listens to you hitting the ball right, in this case the pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u176	That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u177	My comment on the task force was not so much what the Minister outlined very broadly. Thank you for that. The task force I have in mind is a number of top lawyers, I mentioned a dozen, but that is just an example of what the legislation needs to be repaired. That's actually overdue maintenance. That is my specific question. I have a list in my inside pocket, but I think it's a little faint to do that now. I've only mentioned the Environment Act now, because it has yet to come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u178	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u179	That is why I say to Mr Van Rooijen: each department is currently examining its own legislation on excessive bottlenecks for people and whether it needs to be adapted. Such an analysis is currently being carried out by its own departments. In addition, we are also asking for an outside consultation, asking for the same thing for a wide range of people: do you see any bottlenecks in the legislation that need a solution? That's happening in every department now. This is one of the results of the parliamentary interrogation committee on the childcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u180	Can I ask you a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u181	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u182	It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u183	You're gonna have to press the pedal properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u184	Could the Minister indicate in a letter the entire investigation into repair legislation of all departments? Then it's clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u185	If Mr Van Rooijen appreciates that I am sending what I have now indicated to the Chamber in a brief letter, I can always do so, but that will be no different than what I have said in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u186	Fine, thank you for this commitment. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u187	Mr. Chairman. The drafting of the constitutional review is, of course, a multifaceted issue. Mr Koole and Mr Otten spoke about this. It is good to see which variants can be applied. On the basis of the letter sent by my predecessor at the end of December, I intend to draw up a general letter with the Minister for Legal Protection on the elaboration of the constitutional review. In doing so, the commitment is an amendment to Article 120 of the Constitution. I am going to describe these broad lines, and I am going to send them to the House of Representatives to discuss them first. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer referred to Article 51 of the Charter. He asked to see if it could have a general effect and whether it would be a bill of rights, as Mr Backer said nicely. As Mr Backer himself said, Article 51 of the Charter now has a limited scope. It shall apply only to the establishment of the European Union and to the Member States, where Member States implement Union law. This limitation is also linked to the division of competences between the European Union and the Member States. Where the Union has no powers, for example because the Member States are more appropriate to do so, the EU Charter does not apply. When you amend that, that also means that it is with the Treaty amendment and a fundamental debate that it is, because that is what you have to do, in a broad sense, that it applies to the Member States. I think that is a rather fundamental step. At the same time, you can see that the Charter, although it may have a limited effect in this context, can actually be invoked by citizens in many areas. So it is a living whole, because a directive or regulation applies and because the Union citizen uses the free movement of persons within the Union. So in that sense you see that it really has a broader effect in its application. Apart from that, of course, you can see that all Member States must comply with the minimum level of protection, which is covered by the European Convention on Human Rights. That actually gives you a complete picture. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten had another question about the Pikmeer arrests. I would like to say to Mr Otten that this is, of course, an issue which is close to the Ministry of Justice and Security. So I just want to hit the main lines. The judgments relate to whether and in what cases public bodies can be prosecuted. It also discusses the possibility of prosecuting officials, if they are actually in charge, in the case of criminal immunity of a government body. That is, of course, different from personal criminal liability. It was found that a complaint was pending at this very point. I am therefore careful to discuss this in detail at the moment, because it is a subject of my colleague in the judiciary, but also because it is under the courts. So I want to stick to these general reflections. Apart from that, of course, we are investing a lot from the state service right now to ensure that we are a diverse, inclusive and safe working environment. There is no room in the workplace for discrimination and racism. We want to make sure that we, as the Empire, are an example in this area. We'll invest in that, and that's what it starts with, of course. In doing so, I was at the end of the rule of law and its legal aspects. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a number of other issues. They are no less important, because there are a number of very substantial between them. Mrs Karimi asked about citizenship and participation in the Netherlands and in the European Union, and what are the plans for it. At national level, there is, of course, a package of legislative proposals to further strengthen democracy, partly on the basis of the State Committee on Parliament's system. Since 1983 there have never been so many legislative proposals. This is certainly true of the constitutional proposals; there are already 12 of them at the moment. At European level, the cabinet is committed to increasing the democratic legitimacy of the EU and making decision-making more transparent. Of course, the coalition agreement includes, among other things, that we want to see whether the European Parliament can make an individual European Commissioner resign. Now I come to the question of the Foreign Minister. In my view, the Minister is still discussing the Conference on the Future of Europe, so I will not repeat that. But one of the lessons is that people like to talk about the European Union. I think that's a very nice lesson. We take this as one of the results of the civil dialogues, which are a follow-up to Mr Koole's motion. So that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Huizinga and Mrs Oomen have both asked questions about disinformation, tackling disinformation and its enormous importance, including in order to protect our democratic rule of law. At European level, I work together to strengthen the capacity of the European Union and the Member States to counter disinformation. I do so together with the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitisation, because of course it also has a large digitisation component. We are working on the EU strategic communication task force and the rapid alert system, i.e. the rapid alert system, I say to Mr Koole, to exchange information. The Secretary of State is actively engaged in dialogue with the social media platforms and the European Union. He is working to prevent foreign interference and to further tighten up the rules currently in force. In addition, the European Commission's guidelines work on the cyber security and security teams of various social media platforms and a good exchange between them. They know quite a lot individually, but they also really need to exchange that knowledge with each other in order to apply the disinformation properly. Mrs Huizinga referred to Rule 26, first paragraph, of the Digital Services Act. This requires very large online platforms to take measures to address systemic risks from their services. One of these risks is disinformation. We are in favour of this article, because we really need to try to regulate distribution and reach. You can't ban disinformation that isn't punishable. So you have to regulate the range and also prevent the spread. These are explicitly subjects of the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitalization. In particular, I leave it to her to answer further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u188	I have a question for the Minister about disinformation. In my speech, for example, I referred to the handbook issued by the European Commission. That is the handbook with guidelines for journalists within the Respect Words project. Here's what I'm wondering. The Minister makes an argument for openness and against disinformation. Isn't it also a form of censorship and disinformation to create a guidebook for journalists? Isn't it up to the media themselves to decide how they write and how they observe society?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u189	A large part of disinformation is, in principle, freedom of expression, when it is not criminal. At the moment when there are false claims, you may of course contradict them. You may say something isn't true. This is also where action against disinformation is at stake. It will be seen if you can narrow the range of such messages and if you can contradict them. Social media platforms can also contribute to this, so that they can be informed as effectively as possible. So you can't ban disinformation unless it becomes criminal. You can make sure it's limited. It is also about making good agreements and having a code of conduct. As I understand from the Secretary of State, it is being revised at the moment. That is the further action. I can actually hear Mrs Faber say in her speech that it is balancing. Yeah, I have to. Freedom of speech has its limits, but it does exist in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u190	I understand, of course, that if falsehoods were to be said, you may contradict them. That makes sense, and that's good. It is also a good thing that we are having a debate on matters. I'm still a little stuck with that manual of guidelines for journalists in my stomach. Isn't it strange that the European Commission should come up with such a handbook? I mean, journalism has to be free, right? Journalists are pushed into a certain angle. They get a little anxious to get put away in a certain angle, when they don't want to, and sometimes they just want to report. My specific question is whether the Minister is behind such a manual, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u191	For me, it's just as important to know exactly which manual this is. I do know that a European Media Freedom Act has been announced. I do not know at the moment whether that is exactly the same, but it is about media freedom and pluralism in the European Union. We are going to assess the substance of this proposal, including with a BNC sheet. So at the moment I can't quite see whether the European Media Freedom Act, which I have in mind, is the same handbook. I do know that the path of this Freedom Act is that we are in the process of taking a decision on a new Commission proposal. This is, of course, still being sent to the Lower House and the Upper House by the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u192	Perhaps you could come back to that in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u193	Yes, but perhaps Mrs Faber has the exact title of the manual. Then I'll be able to figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u194	It's about the title. Go ahead, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u195	It came from the project Respect Words. That project was about migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u196	Then we're gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u197	But I can imagine... oh, excuse me. I'm interrupting you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u198	I would also like to say to Mrs Faber that I had not had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u199	It just happened. It's okay. I can also imagine you don't know the title of the manual, so I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u200	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I was looking into disinformation. Mrs Oomen also mentioned the importance of the resilience of the administration in our democratic system. That is, of course, the other side that is very important. The resilience of political ministers also applies here in the Netherlands. It is, of course, unacceptable for our council members, aldermen and mayors to be threatened and intimidated in their work. It doesn't matter who it is; it doesn't belong in our rule of law. That is why I believe that we should say together that the collective standard is that if you are threatened or intimidated, you should also report it. And that, if you really need to, you're gonna press charges and the D.A. and the police are gonna work on that. Disinformation can also be threatening and intimidating. This means that reporting is therefore very important to support the resilience of drivers. This also means that, together with other ministries, I have a supporting Network Werable Board for local and decentralised government, with which council members, aldermen and mayors who end up in this kind of difficult situations have an experienced expert who supports them in it. In the coming period, I would like to look at how we can further implement this, so that we can also take the right steps for this negative effect of disinformation, which really has its impact on the resilience of the board. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the GRECO recommendations, including by Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Otten. Why isn't there a rush? Isn't it time that we really took significant steps in this? I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. Even after the last GRECO report, the previous cabinet has already started to tighten up the integrity rules in terms of subsequent posts after the office of directors. The lobbying ban has been widened. There is a revolving door ban and there will also be a cooling-off period with mandatory advice by an independent committee. The latter requires legislation. My intention is to submit the bill to the House of Representatives in the autumn, so that this Chamber will have it afterwards. It is, of course, not only about future posts at the end of the term of office of directors, but also during the term of office. So I am also working on a code of conduct for subsequent posts during the term of office of directors. I am also involved in dealing with lobbyists. That too was a recommendation from GRECO. My aim is to send further information about this around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u201	We await that further information with interest. I am aware that the previous cabinet has already taken a number of measures at the end of the journey with regard to the integrity of the administration at the highest level. I would like to ask this minister, the successor of the previous minister, whether she is sufficiently confident that these measures will be sufficient, including in the view of GRECO. Are there any signals for that? A number of measures have been taken, but they have also been criticised. Can the Minister give an estimate of what that's gonna look like? Can it also imagine that there may be a need for additional measures or tightening up, particularly in this area? I am talking about eight of GRECO's sixteen recommendations which, according to GRECO, were not complied with at all in the previous report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u202	I have yet to draw up the legislation, including a number of motions, such as those tabled by Mr Dassen van Volt, on the lobby register, which was also in GRECO, and on the independence of the advisory committee and its guarantee. I'll try to do it as best I can. It is difficult for me at the moment to assess how GRECO is going to judge it, because there is no concrete legislation. However, we are taking steps to look at ourselves even better in the mirror, precisely because GRECO judges and sees if we are doing the right thing, to see how we can better safeguard our integrity. So you can see that I am cautious in my statements, because I still have to put the legislation into procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u203	I understand. But is it true, when it comes to broadening the ban on lobbying, that there are all kinds of exceptions to that? I have at least understood this from the answers given by the minister's predecessor to questions put by Mr Dassen and Mr Omtzigt. I read in the phrase: 'If there is a reason for this, the Secretary-General of the Ministry concerned may, where appropriate, waive the ban on lobbying'. In that case, everything can be taken into account: the function of the executive, its proximity, the circle of contacts, the nature of the new job. There's a whole bunch of exceptions. I'm starting to feel a little wet. Then I'm thinking, how solid is that ban on lobbying? Can the Minister now say something about this, or does she say that the legislation must be awaited?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u204	These are aspects which, when it comes to applying for employment and the advisory committee, will be covered by the legislation. I do not want to anticipate this at the moment because, together with the other rulers, I have to put forward a legislative proposal for this. But I will take note of the points of interest you have in this regard. I heard Mr Van Apeldoorn say that legislation should set the standard and not open the door to all exceptions. I think it is clear that GRECO has asked us to set clear standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u205	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u206	I am pleased with the answer and that we agree on the point that there should not be an exception in the trials. I look forward to that further with interest. I have one final question, namely: is there any contact with GRECO in this whole process? Or is it a matter of going down the road and seeing how the Group of States opposes corruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u207	I am not familiar with GRECO's method of working and whether it is possible to do so. I shall come back to that in the second term. I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u208	I have a question. The Minister says: I come up with legislation on GRECO's recommendations on the revolving door constructions, the cool-down period and so on. The cabinet has just taken office, so I assume there are no concrete plans by ministers to become a lobbyist. We have seen from Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen that, just before she switched, Minister Ollongren has withdrawn the ban on lobbying. Are we now in some kind of vacuum until a new law comes into effect and the old ban is abolished? Does that mean you can do it in this window if a minister wants to go through the revolving door tomorrow? Is that the situation or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u209	I say to Mr Otten that there is currently an extended ban on lobbying. This means that former ministers who now have a lobbying function are not allowed to talk to a ministry for two years. That's true right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u210	Yeah, I saw that, too, but that wasn't my question. I thought the ban on switching without a cooling-off period had been revoked. My question is specific: what is the situation with the cooling-off period until that law, which we welcome, is there? Are we now in some kind of twilight zone, in which the situation is not quite clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u211	If I may translate the question, is it: is the standard for the cooling-off period already set? Does it now apply, therefore, when one of the directors would like to take up a new position and apply for it? For that, it is crucial that there is an advisory committee that can make that assessment. But there isn't at the moment, and you're gonna need it to fill this out. That means that I want to come up with legislation this year to ensure that this is done quickly. Without that advisory committee, you can't make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u212	That's very clear. I conclude, indeed, that we are now in a zone where the law is not yet in place and that this is not yet fully settled. Well, that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u213	What's in there is its rule of law. It's a restriction on your job opportunities. So you're gonna have to take care of it legally. You can't do it on the basis of intentions. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole also asked a question about integrity policy for MEPs and parties. Mr Koole, as former chairman of a political party from 2001 to 2006, knows that this applies...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u214	I think we can find that in the book.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u215	It'll be in the back somewhere. But of course, political parties are primarily responsible for their integrity. But in addition, as a minister, I have laid down regulations in the Financing Act political parties. In my reply just now, to a question from Mr Otten, I explained that I am strengthening and strengthening a number of things, including monitoring. In addition, a hand-off integrity has been developed from the Home Office. Political parties can use these in the selection of candidates for the electoral lists. I would also like to say that the recommendations made by the GRECO for the States-General have largely been implemented very quickly. Congratulations on the fact that the States themselves have taken up their responsibilities very quickly. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a conclusion. I would like to thank Members for their questions and for the opportunity for me to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u216	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u217	I do not have so much a question as a supplement to what I have just said. That was about that Handbook of Respect Words. Actually, it's called Reporting on Migration and Minorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u218	Thank you to Mrs Faber for the more detailed information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u219	Thank you. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u220	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. The Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke of "uncomfortable." Once countries are within the European Union, you do not have the tools to enforce the imitation of European values. Take a European citizen, here or in Poland, who takes Article 2 of the Treaty seriously. What should she do with such an announcement? It's not "uncomfortable," but it's actually powerless. This obviously does not increase confidence in the EU. Mr. Chairman. In any event, the debate has shown that this insight has led to the Minister's commitment to a treaty change needed to strengthen that toolbox and to adapt Article 7 to that effect. That is a very important step. I had prepared a motion for a resolution on this subject, but in view of the Minister's commitment, I do not wish to do so. I would also ask the Minister, following his ruling this evening that the expected ruling of the Court of Justice on 16 February will be able to deliver new ammunition for the re-evaluation of the rule of law in the European Union, that this cabinet will run faster for the rule of law and inform us by letter of what this means for the use of this minister. Mr. Chairman. I am disappointed in the answer that the Minister does not consider a state complaint procedure to be useful. My question is whether he wants to get in touch with his fellow minister in Germany to see if this option can be examined jointly. Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Minister has misunderstood me with regard to the state of law reports and the integration of fundamental rights as one of the subjects in those reports. I did not advocate integrating asylum and migration. I mentioned the pushbacks as an example. I have argued for the general inclusion of fundamental rights as a theme. So the question is whether he wants to do that. I understand that some of my unanswered questions will be answered by the Minister in the second term. So I'm waiting for those answers. I shall, however, table a motion on my suggestion regarding the special envoy on freedom of the media. I hope the Minister will agree to that later. In that case, of course, I withdraw the motion. The: Mr Karimi, Mr Backer and Mr Koole tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that press freedom and the security of journalists in the Member States of the European Union are under pressure, as shown by the Democracy Index;]] [[Considering that a free, independent press capable of working in security is essential for the functioning of the rule of law and for the respect of other fundamental principles of the European Union and human rights;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the European Commission, the European Council should pay greater attention to promoting the pluralism of the free media and the security of journalists;]] [[calls on the Government to promote and inform the Court of Justice of the appointment of a "special Envoy on Freedom of the Media" by and before the Council,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35295-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u222	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u223	Mr. Chairman. Why is the debate we are having today so important? This is because progress in the further development of the EU in several key policy areas is made difficult if the rule of law principles are not respected. That is not in the Dutch interest. To clarify, also to Mrs Oomen: of course I know that the Copenhagen criteria are leading. Poland, Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria: they all met the Copenhagen criteria, at least on paper, and therefore joined. But after all, we all found that accession might have come a little too early. If that conclusion is correct and that feeling is correct, then the logical consequence, or then the logical consequence, should be that we first have our own house in order to avoid making the same mistakes again, in order to prevent us from correcting new derailments of Member States that have already joined? That is the commitment of my request to the government and my comments in the first term. But Mrs Oomen is obviously not satisfied yet and would like to ask me another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u224	Meeting the rule of law is the Copenhagen criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u225	Yes, you don't have to explain that to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u226	If I understand you correctly, you say: 'But they will not be there, even if they comply with the rule of law, because we are afraid that they will go wrong soon'. I share that fear with you. And because we have that fear of them going wrong, you now want to add an additional criterion to the Copenhagen criteria and you say: "You must first have the house in order. Those others, Poland and Hungary, must first comply with the rule of law that they left after admission, after entry, otherwise you will not enter." So you are actually punishing the newcomers, who have done their best and have to do so by adding an additional criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u227	No, Mrs. Oomen. I'm not adding any additional criterion. I say we have to have the house in order to prevent derailment. We don't have that right now. That is also what Mrs Jourová and Mr Reynders said in a debate. So it's not an extra condition. No, we must impose a duty on ourselves to make this easier when Member States derail, whether it be Poland or Hungary or one of the future Member States. Because if we do that at the time they have already joined, it will only become more difficult. We must avoid saying in the future: well, we made the same mistake as we did at the time when the eight plus two Member States joined. Those aren't extra criteria. That's just imposing discipline on yourself to keep things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u228	Mrs Oomen walks head-shaking back to her place, but Mr Backer is going to try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u229	Maybe there's something I can do. I was actually so cheerful at Mr Van Ballekom's first term. We have often faced each other in the debate on Europe, but I thought that Mr Van Ballekom is on the right lines, at least a line that I can also support. And I think he is doing the debate and maybe even himself a little short by making the rule of law mechanism a bit static. And the strange thing is that part of the debate was about implementing the rule of law mechanism. There is also the appeal to the cabinet to do the same. So Mr Van Ballekom is now linking it to the entrance of new members. It's possible. But I am really concerned about the rule of law mechanism for existing members. Because even if a new member meets all the requirements and is inside, it can also slip into an autocracy. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u230	That's right. It may be that people or Member States are slipping. Then you have to have instruments that aren't blunt at some point. We need to work on that. That is why I would like to think twice about it before agreeing on the competences of the European Union or enlargements even before those instruments have been strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u231	Mr. Backer still wants to respond, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u232	But I obviously misunderstood Mr Van Ballekom. As if it were working the other way round, so that the implementation of the rule of law mechanism should wait for the acceding members to be put in order. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u233	No, I'm not talking about that. I am not talking about the acceding members. I am only talking about our own agreements, which we have made and which we have laid down in the Treaty. Those agreements need to be adapted, because an instrument must be sharper in order to be able to keep ourselves informed when there is derailment at some point. And in my first term I said: If a country derails once, it is not bad, and then it is covered with the cloak of love. But if a country makes that government policy standing up, then we are dealing with very different things. That's why this is so necessary. And that is also confirmed by the discussions we have had with the Commissioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u234	I think I will discuss this again in peace with Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u235	Can I try again? The EU should not absorb until it is completely fine. Does Mr Van Ballekom say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u236	I said, Mrs Oomen, that I think it would be wise for us to tighten up the instruments we currently have, in order to be able to correct Member States if they fail to act in breach of the Treaty. That's what I'm saying. We can't do that right now. That is also acknowledged by the Commissioners. Mrs Jourová said in so many words: the instrument of Article 7 is blunt and does not work. Then I think to myself: let it work first and then take the next step. And I would have had a few fewer reservations, Mrs Oomen, if the Court of Auditors' report I mentioned had been humoured about the progress made in the field of the rule of law. I do not want you to be able to say to me in a number of years' time: yes, but we agreed to admit the countries of the Western Balkans, but we actually made the same mistake when the eight and two Member States joined a few years ago. I don't want to repeat that mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u237	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u238	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for an up-to-date overall overview, including the criminal proceedings currently under way. I prefer to receive that in writing. I would like to receive that overall overview in order to get the debate in May more concrete, and also to be able to comment more specifically on the progress that has been made. I assume that the Minister will honour this commitment, even though the debate was not in June, as I said in the first instance, but in May. That narrows the preparation time a little bit. But I know the State Department on my fingertips and I know how efficient they are there. So in that respect, there is no concern whatsoever. Mr. Chairman. At the end of my speech, I asked the government for five concrete things. The first is whether the government agrees with my group that the enlargement process of the Union should be directly linked to respect for the principles of law. I have received very long answers, but no clear yes or no. I don't think I'm gonna get that tonight either. I am not naive after so many years of working in this policy area, but I will repeat my questions, because I think it is very important. Another question that has not actually been answered is whether the government agrees with my group that the benefit to be achieved should be linked to the state of law behaviour of Member States. Yes, the Minister says, I agree with you in principle that this must be done, but we are dependent on the Commission's initiatives. That's quite right. But then the Minister can remember my fourth question, namely whether the government agrees with my group that the Commission's exclusive right of initiative is not archaic. Should that not be changed and not be used? I haven't had an answer to that. If you say 'I would like to, but it can't be, because the Commission is not taking any initiative', then you are really sorry to have to wait and should you agree with the VVD Group, Mr Hoekstra, that that should be changed? Then I come to the final point. Does the government agree with my group that the democratic process would be strengthened if the Commission's proposals were to be deviated in a simpler way? This can only be achieved by unanimity in many areas. That's kind of weird, I think. I would like to have a comment on that. Otherwise we will come back to this in the debate on the State of the Union, as it is officially called, on the situation, the state of the Union. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u239	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mr Backer has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u240	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the rulers for the answers. I note that, despite years of negative, destructive or sometimes downright destructive remarks about the European Union, there is now a different wind blowing. It is no longer a party committee looking for a party, but there is, I think, a much more constructive attitude on what Europe can mean for our country, and for the Union citizens that we are. I am also pleased to hear that in the answers of the two rulers. I also see a very active Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to encourage them to make a strong commitment to the Council and the Commission to be more courageous, more efficient and also more consistent with Articles 2 and 7 and to make the rule of law mechanism truly credible and enforceable. This is good for the credibility of the European Union, which is now building up. Mr. Chairman. The European Union is such an example. We have just talked about an impossible task that few people believe in. Nevertheless, the European Union, and the Member States and the institutions, always reinvent themselves. One example is the Recovery Fund that we actually forced... The Minister came up with the beautiful metaphor, from his camping bed, of a crowbar. No one anticipated Corona. The Commission had no powers in this respect, not even within the MFF, and yet a solution has been found. This solution has also created a new mechanism, the conditionality, with which the Union can move forward. This way we always find new solutions. That makes me hopeful. Thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the short and somewhat persistent paper on Article 51, but that is, of course, also a very fundamental debate. That might be a little further on the horizon, so I won't pursue that now. I have missed a reflection on the idea of the Union citizen. I would nevertheless like to present this in the debate on the future of Europe. We don't have to prosecute it now, but it's a concept that I hear very little about. I think it's an appealing concept. Finally, Mr President. Given the time limits I am already in injury time I will not pursue the issues that Mr Koole has started on, about legislative quality and so on. I would just like to conclude with a compliment to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is in office for a short time and who is already in the fabric. This gives all the confidence in cooperation for the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u241	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I now give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u242	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Ministers for the comprehensive answer to our questions. Thank you also for showing that the democratic rule of law is a very good thing for both of them, and that they both, and the government as a whole, are actively committed to it. Given the limited time available, I'm moving on to a few remaining questions that I'd like to ask. First of all, I have a communication to the Minister of the Interior. I was talking about that hardness clause. I mentioned an example. That's the Housing Act, Article 119 (1). It says that the Minister may deviate from what is stated in the law, if there is an injustice, or because in his opinion the importance of housing is less served by strict application. In my opinion, the latter cannot be included in a hardness clause. That must be avoided. Then my remaining questions to the Secretary of State. In the first period, the possibility of a Europe of different speeds in terms of democratic rule of law, with the bonus model rather than the malus model, has been mentioned. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. The second is a question that I had asked and which has not yet been answered: what is the government's commitment to the negotiations on the migration pact that are currently taking place under the chairmanship of France? As far as the Dutch Government is concerned, are these negotiations aimed at spreading asylum seekers and not just at buying off European solidarity by sending money to the southern Member States? Thirdly, I would like to table a motion, Mr. Chairman. I do so with some hesitation, because the Minister is going to come to that point in his second term. Anyway, that's it. The motion is in response to the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs on human rights violations at the external borders. If the Minister agrees to what the motion asks, this motion, as Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks said, can be withdrawn afterwards. But for now, I'm filing her. Shall I read to her? The motion is quite extensive, because the recommendations of the advisory committee have been incorporated in the recitals. Shall I read her to you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u243	I'd do it. Otherwise, it's gonna take a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u244	With your permission. The: Mr Koole and Mr Karimi tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[(in) direct responsibility for human rights violations by Dutch human or material support to EU border management, or by Dutch financial support to it, should be avoided;]] [[it is desirable for the Dutch Government to make clear agreements within the EU and with third countries on operational responsibility in the implementation of EU asylum and migration policies;]] [[respect for human rights should become a more central part of the development, implementation and control of existing agreements and operational frameworks in the field of EU asylum and migration policy;]] [[improving access to justice for victims of human rights violations in the field of EU asylum and migration policies;]] [[internal complaint procedures within the EU agencies also need to be improved and good complaint procedures within the Dutch alien chain should be ensured;]] [[strengthening the independent monitoring of the implementation of EU external border surveillance (by Frontex);]] [[calls on the Government to adopt the recommendations contained in the report of the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs on human rights violations at the external borders of the European Union and to report to the Court on progress in implementing these recommendations in one year's time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35295-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u246	Thank you, Mr Koole. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank both directors for their reply. It is also part of the rule of law to determine the EU at its borders. It has no powers in those areas which are not expressly conferred on it by the Member States. In concrete terms, therefore, the EU has no competence over the policies of Member States with regard to family, marriage, sexuality or medical ethics, such as the issue of abortion. I call on the Minister to monitor these borders and not to include these areas in the EU's competence either by means of the detour of human rights or otherwise. I think, on the contrary, that this could undermine or put pressure on the survival of the EU, which is unity in diversity. Unfortunately, the Minister's answers did not reassure me at all. Acknowledging that some countries have other moral values and are certainly not inferior to them, quite the contrary. "In the Netherlands, the flag goes out when abortion legislation is extended even further," the NRC recently wrote. In other countries, the flag goes out for the new life. Speaking of values. Respect the morals of the Member States that support this and do not make the EU a single secular project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u248	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u249	Mr President, I have one minute left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u250	Mr. Van Rooijen, you may do your second term behind the chair. It will be cleaned for you. Then I'll turn on the microphone and the clock for you. You're failing yourself by standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u251	Mr. President, you're never too old to learn. I've got a minute. So I wanted to be brief. I have a motion because what the Minister has already promised is too narrow in our eyes. That's more like what she's already said and reporting us in a letter. I would also like to see proper consideration given to the legislation that is now in place and that needs to be repaired. The: Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Otten proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recent legislation contains ticking time bombs;]] [[Whereas an in-depth investigation is necessary for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a task force of a number of top lawyers to make an urgent list of legislation to be repaired,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35295-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u252	Mr. Chairman. I assume the Minister of Foreign Affairs is still supplementing the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u253	You're free to accept that. I now give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. Although I thought it was a good debate, I must say that others have said that I thought it was a disappointing debate, in the sense that it appears that there are limited possibilities for returning countries which are slipping back from the state-of-the-art trail after accession to the Union. On paper it seems to be something, but in reality that is very limited. I find that disappointing. I agree with GroenLinks' request for a letter, following the Court's ruling, on what changes that change and what possibilities it offers. I would also like the Foreign Minister to look at what the future of the European Union might look like in this reality where it is difficult to bring countries back. I am also thinking of what Mr Koole called the 'two-speed Europe'. Possibly that could be part of the answer, possibly not. I'll leave it to the Secretary of State. I have not yet had a clear answer to my question as to whether the Minister considers it valuable that the EU itself should be placed along the trias political and check-and-balances bar. Perhaps the Minister has replied, but that has not happened to me. Then I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior for her pleasant and competent way of replying. I understand that disinformation is definitely in the spotlight. They're working on it. I assume that the Upper House will also be informed about this in due course so that we too can continue to deal with the subject. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u255	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u256	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. I agree with Mr Huizinga that we look back on a good and good first-term debate. However, it was a bit sad, because I believe that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber, not everyone shares that opinion, but many parties agree that there is a serious crisis of the rule of law in the European Union and that the solution is not close. That's a gloomy thing to do. This has to do with the limited instruments. In this respect, I welcome the commitment of the Minister to me and this Chamber to commit itself, in the context of a possible discussion on an amendment to the Treaty, to strengthen the instruments and to better anchor them in terms of the enforcement and enforcement of the principles of the democratic rule of law and their alignment. I am also pleased that the Minister is willing with me and others to learn from the past when it comes to enlargement that took place in the years 2000. I have rarely agreed with Mr Van Ballekom as much as I have today. Mr Van Ballekom is almost shocked. I wouldn't worry about it. I think it's a good sign when it comes to learning from the past and not making the same mistake again. It is good that the Copenhagen criteria are there, but we need to be able to enforce them even after admission, and that is not the case now. First of all, that's done, we can't expand because then we'll fall into the same mistake. So we have to get our own house in order first. There are two things that I do not think have been properly answered. I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment briefly on the situation with regard to the accession of the EU to the ECHR, the Human Rights Convention. What exactly is the state of play? Any progress on the case? Maybe he can go into that in the second term. I also asked him what he would think if the EU joined the European Social Charter of the Council of Europe in order to strengthen its basic social rights. Finally. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned that there would be a response to the Venice Commission's report on the supplement scandal. She said it's coming to the Chamber this quarter, and I hope she meant this Chamber by that too. In any case, we would like to see it addressed to this Chamber as well, so that we can ask questions about it if necessary. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u257	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u258	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Home Secretary. When I started, I wished you that we would often have a pleasant discussion with you and that you would also enjoy it. I must tell you that, for my part, I found the very precise way in which you have answered our questions very pleasant, not so long in office. Thank you very much for that. Mr. Chairman. I'll come back to a few points. It very much appealed to me that, when you are talking about state of law, you start looking yourself in the eye, seeing what you see from there and what you can adjust. I liked what you said, because at the same time there was talk of a government that is serviceable and legislative policy that should not only be simple and know the human dimension, but also be enforceable. That's exactly what we're in this house for. I would like to thank you for sending a general letter on the possible abolition of Article 120 of the Constitution. I would like to add my voice to the comments made by Mr Van Apeldoorn on the signing of the Charter. I don't know who to address it to. I'm thinking of the Secretary of State. What should happen is that you hunt down those who do not make it and who still leave it in the drawer and say: we have a good deal of agreement in 2010 and it has to be done now. I would also like to thank the Minister of the Interior for the answers she gave about all the institutions and all the people involved in the social and political system and who should also be able to experience the resilience in that system. Where we do not come out today, I come there with Mr Van Ballekom not from the state of law and accession. I have a little experience in that file. I know that you have to be very careful not to adopt all the decisions at an afternoon's notice, as the Poles have done. The rule of law is more important, especially among the countries in the Western Balkans, with which we are now negotiating. We must be convinced that it has not only been improved on paper, but also that all institutions are in order and function in this way. If that is the case, we can use the criteria that allow countries if the European Union can absorb them, because that is also a separate assessment. Then I still run the risk of leaving it at some point, of wrong people being elected, who are no longer so close to the rule of law. It's possible. I don't have any tools for that. I cannot keep those new people waiting until I, with the 27 Member States of today, have developed this instrument of rule of law into finesses to throw them out if they do not comply. So I'm throwing up an extra barrier and I don't think we should do that extra barrier. I'd like to be enforceable. The Foreign Minister has promised a great deal about this. We'll get a letter about it, too. I want to, but as long as we don't change the treaty... my colleague Van Ballekom wants to change the treaty. As far as I am concerned, however, in order to change the treaty, we do need uniformity. Until we can guarantee that, we cannot say: keep the Union on a leash any longer. That is what I would like to say to colleagues. Actually, that's it. Then there is the instrument of conditionality. We got good answers about that. That could also be used for other situations. Thank you for that, also to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u259	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. Mr Raven has the floor on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u260	Thank you. I'm gonna try with this voice, but I'm not sure that's going well. Mr. Chairman. The tools for checks-and-balances are insufficient to prevent undermining. I put that on the table in the first term and unfortunately there is no negative response from the cabinet. In fact, the Minister is indicating the dilemmas which are not really possible in the short term. As far as we are concerned, lick-on-piece policy would be much better and you should be able to introduce it in the very short term. Mr. Chairman. The Balkans are almost on fire again. There's a lot of business going on. I find it difficult and unsatisfactory that we are having a discussion here to see how, for the time being, we can leave countries that have a good deal to do with each other out of the loop. That is an interesting debate between VVD, CDA and D66. There are three different approaches to this debate. I call on them to reach agreement on that point. 'Cause you can't land on a leash. The example given, Macedonia, is a country that actually meets the conditions and could join in the short term, but if we follow the proposal of the FVD, it will not happen for the time being. That's fatal. It doesn't reward people, it punishes them. That means that the Balkans could be on fire even more soon, and that is something we certainly should not be left with in this debate. Alternatively, you could agree that the new countries will be admitted anyway, already anticipating the conditions set by the VVD, namely that you should first have your own house in order, but that you can agree with those new countries that they will continue to meet the Copenhagen conditions. These are individual agreements; you can arrange them separately with those countries. They will then be able to join and the European Union can then continue to work on its own home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u261	Thank you, Mr. Raven. Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would, of course, like to thank the Ministers for their answers. We did not have as many questions as PVV, but that is because we are not getting so hot from the European Union. But there's nothing you can do about that either, in fact. At least we can, but I don't think that's gonna happen tonight, so let's see. We are not getting so warm from the European Union in its present form. Of course, we are in favour of economic cooperation, but they should not interfere with our way of life; it kills a brother. It is very sweet to say 'unite in diversity', but that diversity is somewhat selective. You have to fall within the European framework. Once a Member State is out of line, within the ideology of the European Union, it becomes difficult and then there is little room for one's own identity, while it is being promoted that there should be room and understanding for non-Western cultures, for example. But if Hungarian parents want to decide for themselves how to raise their own children, there is less room for that. There's a lot of commentary on that. But, yes, Koran schools are usually no problem. At least, I haven't heard anyone here with critical stories about a Koran school, while the Chamber does go on Hungary. Anyway, that aside. We must not forget, of course, that in history Hungary was first overrun by the Ottomans. Then came the Soviets. And now, of course, they are refusing to turn to the European Union when it comes to matters for which competence lies with its own Member State and not with the European Union. So you can't really blame them for that. They also close their borders for new hordes of migrants, because that hasn't been very good in the past. They've done a good job of that. And then there's the misunderstandings at the border. Look, migration has now become a weapon used as a means of coercion. We have to buy all that off of Erdogan, for billions. Of course, that's not the way. Then, for example, we should give Greece something to guard the borders. They have a good army, so why don't you put that in? But, yes, none of that is allowed. In addition, of course, an asylum industry has been created, rigged by smugglers and left-wing lawyers. They're all fine with it. But it is precisely the asylum industry that is the cause of a great deal of suffering. We should never bow to that. Good. Only by closing the borders against mass immigration can we preserve our own culture. Our own culture and identity can thus have a future in freedom. This must not be undermined by the European Union. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u263	Thank you, Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst. I call Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u264	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. Before this debate, there was the necessary discussion about limiting speaking time. Speaking time has been considerably reduced, inter alia, at the request of the chairman of the VVD. We have kept to that. But we are talking here about a debate on fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy. I see now that I have been allocated one minute's speaking time in the second period, of which more than 40 seconds have already passed. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. In this way we cannot have a good debate. Moreover, this is also arbitrary, because different speaking times are used for the various groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u265	Mr. Otten, speaking time limits have been unanimously supported in the Seniors' College. It wasn't my idea, by the way. You didn't object to it yourself. So far, I have had everyone who has gone over the agreed speaking time to do so. You're one of them now. So go on quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u266	I'm now at minus ten seconds, I see. But, as I said, we do not think that is meaningful. My group therefore renounces a second term, protesting against this practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u267	Fine. Then I would say: be careful when this is discussed in the College of Seniors. It doesn't matter to agree first and then not afterwards. I now give the floor to Mrs Nanninga, on behalf of the Nanninga Group, who has ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do have speaking time. I'm gonna use a little of that, I'm afraid. Of course, we want to go home and the ministers still want answers, but I have been saving up a bit and listening to this debate. That is the advantage of the last speaker. Mr. Chairman. There is a deeper debate here than most parties are engaging. Maybe I'm also following a bit of a different debate here, so on my own. In my first term, I had no questions at all to the rulers, and now I have no questions at all. On the one hand, we are talking about democracy and the rule of law and, on the other hand, we are talking about human rights, as if these apparently sacred terms relate to each other as the good, the true and the clean. Between these platonic ideals is harmony, between democracy and human rights there is a certain tension. Human rights are the evolution of an emphasis on virtues and duties, doing or having to do good, the right to what you are allowed to do and what you can expect to guarantee everything. They have been codified in such a way that democracy, the rabble, the gray, cannot and cannot have any influence on it, unless there are huge majorities in favour of adapting these fundamental rights. Democracy is thus almost an obstacle to access to fundamental rights. That's how different parties like to see it. Away with the electorate's vote and here with those rights! So there is a tension between the technocracy, the administrative culture, of certain parties on the one hand and those of the grey, in the Watergraafsmeer social democracy that my grandmother and grandmother were so for, on the other. But maybe they all didn't understand it so well? Because democracy is fun until you take or implement fundamental rights differently. But what are these fundamental rights? These fundamental rights serve a very good purpose of origin. People are protected by inalienable rights. Whatever you think of the note inalienable rights, it's about protecting people from power and randomness. But these fundamental rights will also be used as soon as it comes out of the throes of power, as a kind of bridgehead against unwanted democratic majorities. For then we can keep the rabble at bay from our highly educated electorate and its moderately understood self-interest. It is better to distance ourselves from the democratic majorities, because they do not do what we want. That brings me to the question of human rights. I notice that I am using the terms human rights and fundamental rights a little confused here. While fundamental rights have been carved in stone, they act as so-called facts in this debate on the Union and fundamental rights. But is that true? Are fundamental rights facts? No, they are subject to interpretation, as we have seen in the Urgenda judgment and in the interpretation of the ECHR. That's convenient. We can pretend that stone- chiseled fundamental rights proclaim the gospel of the progressive parties. Thus they can form a progressive procrustesbed for norms and values. Something that Mr Van Dijk also outlined in so many words if I have understood him correctly. But it's not like that. That is why fundamental rights are withdrawn when democratically legitimized policies are not even popular in our country, and even in our country, certain parties do not like them here, while they nod in agreement and dignifiedly when the fundamental rights of political opponents are sometimes violated. We all remember the trial of Bureau Clara Wichmann against the SGP. Where was the progressive fuss back then? There wasn't, apart from happiness on the progressive side, because of course that was convenient. We need people who really look a little further than the brown shoes of their own supporters. There is a tension between democracy and the rule of law. Let's not be too light-hearted about that. Denying the rights of one sovereign Member State can also affect yourself. In Latin, Mr Koole did not like English, but Latin did like "hodie mihi," cras tibi. In that light, I would like to make one further comment. I followed that little discussion about using English. It also sometimes rolls me out of the mouth, because it's catchy. But in this room we don't speak English, we speak Dutch. I am not going to make it a personal fact, but what struck me is that a minister who is called Wopke Hoekstra did not even mention Frisian as a language to be spoken in this room. I know the Minister of the Veluwe is coming, so it's a side note, but I noticed. We're allowed to talk here, aren't we, Frisian?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u269	I see him taking a piece of paper. I think we'll get a piece of Frisian later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u270	So far. I was at work in Friesland on Friday, maybe that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u271	Fryslaan boppe, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u272	Yes, Fryslaan boppe indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u273	Thank you. Mrs. Oomen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u274	I'd like to understand Mrs. Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u275	What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u276	It was said to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u277	I'd like to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u278	Okay, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u279	Isn't that right? You started to say very nicely: democracy is fun until you fill in the fundamental rights differently. A little further you say, blaming everyone who stands here: you pull fundamental rights out of the closet to silence political opponents. What's not true? What are you trying to say? What do you want to teach us? Tell us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u280	The first one was a little charge-ridden sarcasm. Maybe it wasn't picked up that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u281	You didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u282	No, that was a bit of a sarcastic side note. Now I'm saying something in English again. That actually meant the opposite. So there's no discrepancy. They're, as it were, two of the same statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u283	I saw a contradiction in it, but I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u284	That's right. It was literally a contradiction, but the first remark should not be taken literally. I can't explain it any better. Maybe I should look a little over the top with a sarcastic remark so it gets better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u285	Maybe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u286	I hope the DVR gets out of here. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u287	Mrs Nanninga rightly says that there can be a tension between democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. I do not know whether Mrs Nanninga listened to my speech this morning. Because I have specifically stated that this tension exists. Mrs Nanninga then says: fundamental rights are declared sacred, and that is all at the expense of democracy. That would be the gospel of the progressive party. Fundamental rights, of course, did not come into being just now: the French Revolution, the Declaration of Human Rights after the Second World War. Those are not limited to left-wing progressive parties only. They're widely shared. It is also widely shared that they must exist alongside democracy and alongside the rule of law, the principle of legality, the rule of law, if you like. There's tension in that. We agree on that, don't we? Then why are you blaming all the other parties for not agreeing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u288	Let me clarify. We also love fundamental rights and human rights on the right flank. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. In this debate in relation to the European Union, I can see that many of the more progressive parties are aware of this idea. I also disagree with Poland's gay policy, but Poland is a sovereign state. I find it hard to use the European Union to say, under the guise of human rights, that these countries should not pursue their own sovereign policies. Again, I disagree. Let that be made very clear. That is what Mr Van Dijk said. Those are other countries with their own culture. That is exactly why the Union is not working. It's not one size fits all. Even the interpretation of fundamental rights, which I share, is not universal. You can now see that there is talk of countries that will have to be punished or do it wrong. Then I think: boys, that's what you get when you want to look at everything under the guise of fundamental rights through progressive glasses. There are also conservative countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u289	I do not think I could fully follow the argument, but at one point Mrs Nanninga said: those progressive people of progressive parties say that democracy and fundamental rights are equal. Once again, not only by me but also by others, and not only by progressive parties but wide in this Chamber, it has been said: no, these are two different concepts between which a balance has to be struck. In some countries that balance is completely gone. That must be restored. The cabinet has agreed that both the independent supervision and the parliament, which I call the electoral pillar, should be strengthened. So that is both the constitutional side with fundamental rights and democracy. That balance must be sought. You agree with that, don't you? And if you agree, why are you so opposed to some of the parties here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u290	I'll give you a very brief answer. That is because progressive morality is sometimes imposed under the guise of fundamental rights on countries that think differently, as Mr Van Dijk also outlined. That is an objection that my party has against the European Union. It's about things they shouldn't be talking about. It's some kind of moral unity sausage you're trying to roll across an entire continent. My whole point is that it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u291	Finally, Mr President. Of course, I do not agree with that at all. They are the words of Mrs Nanninga. We are opposed to something being imposed by certain groups on others. We seek balance, so that minorities will never be fully imposed. You're looking for that balance, and I think it's widely shared here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u292	Finally, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u293	I am not surprised that Mr Koole disagrees with me, but I do see something different from him. I also suspect we're not gonna get out of that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u294	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I'm suspending for a single moment in this second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u295	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? You will now have the floor, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u296	Mr. Chairman. For a moment I had the problem that a motion I wanted to table was not yet typed and was not on paper either. Then I improvised one myself very briefly, but I now have the right motion. I haven't printed it yet, because it's a little complicated because of the distances. But I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u297	If you wish, you can now file a replacement motion for your motion with letter U on the task force. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u298	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u299	You can submit it now. You will have to deliver it immediately on paper in accordance with what you are about to pronounce.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u300	I'll just grab the glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u301	And also signed, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u302	I got it. There's no glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u303	The motion-Van Rooijen c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas: that it is no longer an incident that the court interprets legislation differently than the legislator intended to formulate; that legal texts have reached the Official Journal which seem to allow for different interpretations; that this may have to do with inappropriate legal technique; that the advice of the Council of State at the start of a legislative process is not always sufficiently taken into account; that this is equally grounded in the fact that there is scope between the interpretation of the legislator and the text of the law; that the review of the law is not, in principle, a task for the judiciary; that a lack of quality or clarity of legislation should be avoided in all circumstances; that there is no insight into which laws have similar problems to those formulated above; that policies, even of a far-reaching nature, could therefore rest on an uncertain basis; considers that correct legislation is an essential element of a rule of law; calls on the Government to take immediate action in this matter, including by setting up a task force of excellent legislative lawyers to identify and review legislation since the turn of the century, and goes to the order of the day. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets letter V, was letter U ().
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u304	Thank you very much for your propriety, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u305	You should ask Mr. Otten how easy I am. The motion replaces your previously tabled motion 35295, letter U, which is removed from the voting list and is no longer part of the debate. Three motions have now been tabled, namely the motions with the letters S, T and V. Ministers, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u306	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u307	Your microphone's not working.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u308	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u309	Mr. Chairman. I hear you. I had actually already begun to say that I appreciated the exchange of views very much. I've always done that, but now in my new role. In many cases, the Cabinet and the members of your Chamber were very much in agreement on what, and they did not disagree so much on how, but shared that the search is still quite complicated. As far as I am concerned, this is also one of the major challenges facing the cabinet, although it is complicated. And that is also the task for me in particular. In that arrangement just with Mr Van Ballekom, Van Apeldoorn has said it much more beautifully than I am now putting it. Mr. Chairman. There are a few things left in the first term. I'm about to start with Mr Van Rooijen. I would like to do it in his presence, but I see that he is not present in the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u310	He's still working on his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u311	I have come across a few things in the second term that fall under the category of 'further beautification'. And then I have to deal with two motions to my address. Mr President, I will leave it to you. At the top of my pile are my notes on the operation of Mr Van Rooijen with regard to geopolitics, but I can also wait until Mr Van Rooijen is back in the Chamber. I can see that the President will approve of that. Now that I've had Ukraine, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u312	Mr. Chairman. It is always good to do the utmost to provide Mr Van Rooij with answers. Once again, I really wanted to point out that, as far as I am concerned, it might have been obvious not to go into it, given the nature of the debate. But I also understand that this is very important. It's something I do every day in the first place. It is also the reason why the Prime Minister and I went to Ukraine last week. And I can also say that it controls almost all the phone calls and physical conversations I have with colleagues. That is, of course, because we are very concerned about what is going on at the border of Ukraine. In addition, it is very important to mark this again, in the light of some of Mr Van Rooijen's questions, too, that this really is not a kind of situation where two parties would be guilty of the use of warlike texts, and not a situation where there are two quarrels and there are actually two faults. There's really something else going on here. NATO is a defensive alliance. NATO borders, contrary to what Russia claims, but to a very limited part of Russia's territory. NATO is only in favour of providing mutual assistance if one of the Member States is at war. Nor has NATO forced any of the present Member States to join NATO. The latter has been suggested. That was not suggested by Mr Van Rooijen, I repeat. It is so important to highlight this because, of course, these are suggestions that are constantly being made on the Russian side. And they don't add up. It is essential that we also have this debate in the right context. It has been Russia that has not only undertaken to occupy Crimea in violation of international law and to wage war in the east of Ukraine, but it is now also Russia that has joined more than 100,000 soldiers at the border of Ukraine. This concerns both the border between Russia and Ukraine and the border between Belarus and Ukraine. All this does not alter the fact that, although this is extremely worrying, the Dutch cabinet's efforts are primarily aimed at finding a solution through diplomacy. But at this stage, too, this must be accompanied by the articulation of the consequences that we are prepared to attach to any aggression; that is the next point of Van Rooijen, which I very much agree with. It must be clear in advance that things that are detrimental to the integrity of Ukraine's territory have major consequences, that they have major repercussions, from the European Union and from NATO. This is about something so essential that it not only affects the people of Ukraine itself, but also affects stability and security throughout our continent. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen further asked about my impressions during the visit last week. I will see to it that the letter of approval of a number of pages, which goes into detail, lands here too. He also asked about contacts with allies. Actually, they're in line with what I just described. I also agree that you should always try to de-escalate through diplomacy, through talking, despite great concern and despite the need on the front for aggression to have consequences, including in the area of sanctions. The cabinet is committed to this, but of course some of the geopolitical key players are also committed to this. The United States does. France and Germany do so through the so-called Normandy format. The European Union is also at the table, not just in the courts, but de facto. There are also a lot of bilateral contacts, as we can all see in the media. Mr. Chairman. Then I have answered many of Mr Van Rooijen's questions. His question concerning the combination of military determination, remaining in conversation and de-escalation I think I have just answered. Mr Van Rooijen made another fifth point. He asked about the German approach. As always, we are very close to Germany here. By the way, I would add in one breath, also with France, also with the United Kingdom, including, of course, the United States, Canada and, as far as I am concerned, all the other Member States of the European Union. This means that, in Europe and with NATO Member States, we are looking at, if necessary, a very substantial package of sanctions. That's one. We are looking with an open eye at the request we have received from Ukraine regarding support in the field of defensive weapons. That's two. Three. If there were such a request for help in the field of cyber........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Four. That is the last of them: a possible training mission is also being discussed at European level. Of course, this is not something that will solve Ukraine's security problems in the short term. That is more useful in the long term, but it is also an important signal. That's about the whole package. Of course I have very close contact with my German colleague Annalena Baerbock. Mr. Chairman. That with seven-mile boots about something that is extremely precarious and which rightly requires a great deal of time from the cabinet and from myself in particular, but I hope that I have done justice to the concerns of Mr Van Rooijen and the questions he has asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u313	Mr. Van Rooijen, another brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u314	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister very much for this answer. I received several messages this evening that at 7 p.m. a message came in The Financial Daily that the hopes that Macron and Putin may have raised yesterday would have been destroyed again, because Russia has announced that it will start practicing three weeks at the border tomorrow. This underlines how precarious the situation is. I don't expect the Minister to respond to that now, but it is. I would also like to thank the Minister for the Interior in the hurry, for forgetting that in that short minute for her extremely detailed and thorough reply. That gives a lot of hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u315	That was the majority in category 1, which was left over from the first term, which I wanted to touch on the question put by Mr Van Rooijen in this case. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Karimi, namely whether the Netherlands also supports the commitment to a full election observation mission. Yeah, we'll back that up. She was absolutely right that I forgot to say that in the first term. So yes, we wholeheartedly support that. That's question 1a. I understand Question 1b in this way: what will the Netherlands do if Mr Orbán wins the elections? Then too, we will continue the dialogue with Hungary and the discussion on the rule of law. We will continue with every element of the dialogue we already have. To be honest, that's the only way. It is the essence of diplomacy that you obviously have good contacts with those Member States in Europe and elsewhere that you feel very related to, but that you are also talking to Member States all over the world about those things that you may disagree very much about. You can also see that if you look at our mailing network, I am completely extrarating from Hungary. We are present in places where we are deeply concerned about human rights and democracy, where we are on a totally different playing field than anywhere else in Europe, but yet we are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u316	There were observers in 2014 and in 2018. Both times the reports have been very critical of the elections. We already know that the elections are not going to be fair, for example by germymandering. Sorry for the English word, but that is about those districts that are now different in Hungary, which means that the opposition needs 3% to 5% more votes in order to get a majority. There is no free media. If we know that and the expectation is that it's not going to be fair... then there'll be a report. Let us assume that there will be a report from the election observation stating that it has taken place with a lot of fraud and a lot of problems. Then dialogue isn't the answer to that, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u317	This dialogue is then done in full focus. That goes without saying. But I do think that is why I have just promised Mrs Karimi that the election observation should do what she is for, namely observe it there. Mrs Karimi asks the question as a dance, namely: what are you going to do when Orbán wins? Then, as far as I am concerned, you will have to persevere in each of the elements of the dialogue. But a dialogue does not, unlike the word perhaps suggests, a priori smell of roses and moonshine. There is, of course, a very explicit dialogue on the rule of law, which we already have with Hungary and which will continue. Then it's about the freedom of the press. Then it is about each of the elements that have emerged today. Only, it seems to me wise, whoever wins the elections in Europe anywhere, not to say at such a time: now we close the door and we don't talk anymore. I think it is precisely in Europe that you owe it to yourself to enter into dialogue, but in all the depths that it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u318	I do not want to repeat the debate that we have of course had all day today, but there is a time when the people of Hungary, who are constantly being deceived, want to see action from the European Union or bilaterally. So my request to the Minister is whether he is prepared to clarify the possibilities for bilateral action, sanctions, if such a situation arises again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u319	Then we run two risks. The first is that I am going to serve very large parts of the debate again. And two, that I also deal with a situation that might arise after the elections in Hungary. I understand the question very well, but I think that we would then have to relate ourselves to that situation, he would have to do so. This dialogue on the rule of law, first and foremost the European Union itself, will have to continue. I am sure that in this House, but also elsewhere, we will resume the discussion on whether that is enough or whether additional things are needed. Mr. Chairman. I understand Mrs Huizinga in such a way that she asked me if I could indicate any more in the category then. She asked whether we couldn't philosophize another round, with all the inconveniences that go with it, about the question of what we would do. In any case, my approach would be to continue the dialogue, as I have just said. Once again, I would articulate very clearly why these fundamental European values are so important, not only for the Netherlands, but for the whole of the European Union, and not only for the inhabitants here, but also for the inhabitants in Hungary itself. The second element is that we can tolerate that little bit of English, I think money talks. It does matter for the long term, however, is my assessment of whether or not countries are being reduced, even if at the moment they still have relatively limited amounts, as I have just discussed in response to Mr Koole. Because it's money. As far as I am concerned, these elements will simply return to their full potential in such a dance scenario. However, I would like to say to Mrs Karimi that, of course, if the outcome of the Court is that the Commission can continue in this way, that the link between the rule of law and money can be made, or that this is not the case at all. Then you really should get back to the drawing board. So I will tell Mrs Karimi that I will inform the Chamber. I am going to do that after the dust has descended a bit. When that decision comes, the European Commission will undoubtedly respond to it. Actually, I'd like to put all that together. I will then inform the First Chamber and also the Second Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Oomen asked me whether I am prepared to say that the Dutch Government wants to encourage the European Commission, as well as its colleagues in the Council, to speak about'moons' in order to fulfil the Treaty obligation to join the ECHR. The first part of Mr Van Apeldoorn's question followed that. For the record, in my view, as I understand it, this accession will not be delayed in the Council. Renegotiation with the Council of Europe following the negative opinion of the Court of Justice is currently under way. We are working closely with the European Commission and like-minded Member States to speed up these accession negotiations. At least that's what I'm gonna do. I see a look at the face of Mrs Oomen, whom I know well from a somewhat longer past, and which means that further discussion will follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u320	There was also a good cooperation, I must say. I feel that it is no longer the European Court of Justice that stops. Would you mind running that again? The negotiating mandate is also from the European Commission, but there are some bears on the way in the Council, if I am well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u321	I know that Mrs Oomen has always been extremely well informed about how the hares run in Brussels. This immediately requires great caution. This is the understanding I have of the situation. Actually, it doesn't affect my commitment to her direction. In any case, I am prepared to resume the discussion with other Member States and the European Union and thus with the Commission. I understand very well what she is expressing: can we not make progress in the long term? I shall therefore continue to do so. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked a further question. He also asked about the European Social Charter. I see him sneaking around the Interrupt Microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u322	But I don't see him walking there yet, so go on. Oh, yeah, here he comes. Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u323	Before the Minister goes into that, I would like to refer first of all to the interruption of Mr Oomen, who knows very well how things are going in Brussels. That's good. She is well informed and apparently better than the Minister in this case; that can happen. Perhaps the Minister could get a little more information to see what exactly is going on and send it to us at some point in a letter, for example for the General European Reviews? I'm curious about that. What's the status? Because accession is not entirely clear. The Minister says that the negotiations are in full swing and that the problem is not with the Council. Mrs Oomen says that the problem lies with the Council, at least with members of the Council. Can the Minister make this clear and put it in writing so that we can discuss it further in the General European Reviews?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u324	Actually, here's what I want to do. My experience is that Mrs Oomen is well informed. I take it that Mr Van Apeldoorn could not help but say that it is undoubtedly an even better information position than that of the cabinet that it can exist alongside the other. Let me say a few things about it, because then perhaps I can spare the excellent officials who have prepared all these answers. I will come back to it in any case before or in the debate we are about to have. Since the resumption in September last year, seven rounds of negotiations have taken place between the Union and the Council of Europe. They're progressing, but they're not finished yet. The next round of negotiations, as I understand it, is on the agenda from 1 to 4 March of this calendar year. So we are very close to the European Commission and the like-minded Member States. We also want to speed up this process as much as possible. Moreover, my observation is that a broad group of Member States is also ported from the next step. We, as the Netherlands, are particularly hard on this. Again, there are also constructive but more critical delegations. That is why I made a commitment to Mrs Oomen and I will take it back, both towards the Commission and towards colleagues in the various Councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u325	I'm happy about that. I look forward to the outcome of the negotiations that will take place in March. Can the Minister take stock of the situation between March and, for example, the General European Reviews and inform us in writing? And can he also give us an appreciation of where we stand after that new round of negotiations in March?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u326	Of course. Only, I also want to prevent a little bit of duplication of work and I want to know if, when I send a letter, that's the right way. I hope in any case, but of course you and the chairman of the committee in question will be on the agenda, that we will have a written round of questions during that debate, because that will allow us to discuss the main points of the debate. I don't know if that's usance, but maybe that's a solution. If not, at least I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u327	That seems to me to be a reasonable offer, also given the amount of work we have at the moment. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u328	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European Social Charter, which is why Mr Van Apeldoorn, of course, continues to circle around the microphone. We also consider the European Social Charter to be extremely important, but we do want to focus on EU accession to the ECHR first. So that's what happens after that. I can't make him any happier than I've done so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u329	I will just say that I will probably come back to it in the General European Reviews. Thank you so much, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u330	That's what I was afraid of. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few other things. Mrs Karimi asked about the Rule of Law report and said that I did not really understand what she meant about the pillar in the area of fundamental rights. I would nevertheless like to refer to that previous answer. This is a relatively new instrument. I understand Mrs Karimi's thinking, but as a cabinet we do not think it is appropriate at the moment to add an extra stake to the instruments. If I had misunderstood the question, the disappointing conclusion is that the answer remains the same. Again, I understand very well what she said about that. Because it listens so closely, I have tried to formulate very precisely what the Union is about and what Member States themselves are about. I have tried to put that very precisely with regard to Article 1, but also with regard to gay marriage. There was one more question from Mr Van Dijk, which was specifically about abortion and how it relates to the EU and possible fundamental rights. It is good to recall that, at the beginning of the European Presidency, Macron argued in the European Parliament that safe abortion, but also climate protection, should have been seen as a more widely recognised EU fundamental right. That's how he said it, according to my observation. That is not the case at the moment, I say in reply to Mr Van Dijk. If there were any proposals, the cabinet would have to relate to them. Then, of course, we will enter into dialogue with the Chamber on this matter. Mr. Chairman. I have another question from Mr Van Ballekom. He insists on letting me put the word "archaic" in my mouth. At least he found the right of initiative archaic. That gave rise to discussion, as I've just noticed. It is true that, formally speaking, the right of initiative lies with the European Commission. By the way, there are exceptions. It is also good to say that at the forthcoming conference, the European Parliament is committed to its own right of initiative. So Mr Van Ballekom is perhaps not so much served by me as he is potentially served by the European Parliament. Then there were a few questions in the category of migration, which I will do. Mr Koole asked: can I not get a ruling on the ACVZ report? That's what I was gonna look up. An appreciation of the report is currently being prepared. I'll get it to the Chamber as soon as possible. Then we will deal with all these aspects. That's, I think, a better route than just making it quick right now. I'll get it to the First and Second Chambers. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Karimi asked: is temporary really temporary? For example, I understood her question about the migration crisis at the border of Belarus. Yes, that is exactly as it was discussed with the Chambers. The cabinet, like many of the other Member States, had previously agreed to submit the text of the BNC sheet to Parliament for consultation. There are now several court cases on this course of action. I understand that the Court is going to rule on that. My proposal to her would be to ensure that the Chamber is informed as soon as those statements are made. Mr. Chairman. Then I believe that Mr Koole has also asked a question about the fair distribution of asylum seekers. I agree with him on that alone, but I think we all know how difficult that subject is. I think it's something that's bitterly necessary. It is entirely in line with the argument I made in the first term about reciprocity and letting go hand in hand with all the pluses and minuses of the Union. At the same time, I must point out that, as the cards are now in place and with the unanimity that Member States have now been allocated, this is still going to be a rather complicated discussion. In itself, I agree with him that you should also try to sort out a European solution for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u331	Thank you. I welcome that in itself, but my question was what the government's commitment is to the negotiations on a new migration pact. I understand that France is pulling that now. I also think it is a very complicated issue. However, I am asking whether it is the government's commitment, rather than a result, I am asking for a commitment from the government to focus on the model of distribution of asylum seekers across the Member States. My question is whether the commitment will not be too quick and easy so that, if you give enough money, you will not have to receive a single asylum seeker. Then you give it to Greece or Italy and then you buy it off. That's part of the proposal, I understand. So my question is: is the commitment initially, not 100%, but initially, aimed at spreading asylum seekers across the Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u332	I would actually like to go even wider, if Mr Koole agrees. Because this is something the Secretary of State for Justice is, of course, working on in particular. These are also matters that are so serious that they touch on the coalition agreement and on the French Presidency's proposal that, in my opinion, we should first have that discussion fully in the cabinet. It must then reach the Chambers by the appropriate route, especially if it is on the premises of colleagues. So would it be okay if I promised Mr Koole that I would report to the Secretary of State for Justice that this interest exists here and that we would ensure that the Supreme Court is also informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u333	I welcome this commitment, but I note that the cabinet has apparently not yet chosen this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u334	I do not want to anticipate the specific commitment, because then I would really like to consult the Member of the Court of Justice, because it will have the latest status. Thank you to Mr Koole for giving us that time. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Karimi had a question. That was actually in the second term, but in the rebound. She asked: okay, if there is no state complaint procedure, will there perhaps be a state complaint procedure with Germany? I have just said that we are very close to Germany, but there are great implications, so I would like to refer to my previous answer for that. Mr. Chairman. The commitment to Mrs Karimi I keep running into her in my pile of 16 February I had already made. This brings me to the second state language, and language in particular. It is always a short moment of great joy, and then deep disappointment, when people in Friesland think that, with such a first and last name, I control the language from front to back. Then I say: I know the first few lines of the Frisian national anthem, but it doesn't go much further. I am not going to add the second rich language to the Acts, I am also sorry to say to Mrs Nanninga. But she is absolutely right: that language may be spoken. I would like to thank Mr Backer in that category for his Latin quote; I cannot repeat that in his mind, but I do recognize the statement made on the Supreme Court building, as well as the fact that he quoted the Hugo de Groot I very much appreciated. Mr. Chairman. Finally, before I come to the motions, I would like to thank all the Members very much for their kind words. The Secretary of State has just said it. I would also like to thank them for the comparisons, albeit mainly in terms of length, with greats such as Mr Luns. Indeed, he was not only impressive because of his height. Mr. Chairman. I thought that brought me to the motions, but I see that Mr Van Dijk is still waiting for an encore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u335	I'm always ready for an encore. No, I hesitated for a moment when the Minister was talking about abortion fundamental rights. I am not waiting for a repetition of moves, but I understand that the Minister has taken note of Macron's initiative, which has initiated this discussion. Have I understood correctly to the Minister that the cabinet has not yet taken a position on this before there has been an orderly debate with the Chamber? Did I get that correctly? Is that what he said?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u336	At the moment when major proposals come from Europe, the cabinet always provides them with a BNC sheet and then there is a debate with the Chamber. I also wanted to highlight how much the cabinet attaches to everything contained in our own Constitution. I have just explained why we really believe that it is right, as far as Article 1 is concerned, but also in other parts of our Constitution, in so far as they are already laid down in European legislation, that the Commission should maintain them and call on Member States to do so. I remembered that. And I have recalled that this cabinet is in favour of the right to abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u337	Clear. I would very much like to believe that the Minister considers it important and that the cabinet considers it important, et cetera. But I am concerned that it would be a very new step if the EU said: we are also talking about abortion. I do not think it is too much to ask that we have a good debate with Parliament on this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u338	That's why I put it so precisely. I also formulate in the completeness, because I know how sensitive it is. I want to prevent one part of the answer from being highlighted in particular, especially in the case of something so sensitive and which requires so much nuance, which in the Netherlands is very strong about it. And I am not just talking about abortion, but about each aspect of this debate. On the one hand, this is about fundamental rights, but on the other hand, it is also about what the Member States themselves are about and what is the Union about? That's why I want to do it very carefully. If a proposal were to be put forward as indicated by Macron, he has in any case argued that such a proposal should be made, it will of course be discussed with the cabinet through normal channels. And when it comes to legislation, it also affects this Parliament, or the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u339	I understand the Minister's right to the motions. Before he raises it, I would like to draw your attention to two questions which I do not think I have yet answered. The first question is whether the Minister has a view on the idea of different speeds in the democratic rule of law and a bonus system rather than a malus system. The second question was the Minister's undertaking that he would come back to it in the second term. The current cabinet's view on the accession of northern Macedonia was the same. The cabinet was before that, but that was frustrated by Bulgaria. The Dutch government has been in favour of this so far. I'd like to know if that's still true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u340	To start with the last question: I thought I explained in more detail what Mr Koole said in the first term was true for each of the partnership countries. They are not all at the same time in the same place in readiness. I agreed with him on that. I have also indicated that this cabinet shares the previous cabinet's view on North Macedonia. With regard to his first question about the different speeds. Excuse me for Mr Koole. The cabinet has a strong preference for us to apply the essentials of the rule of law to all Member States. At the same time, I recognize what Mr Koole says: you have the discussion about different speeds, but we actually already have those different speeds in a number of aspects. There are Member States that have the euro. There are Member States that are members of Schengen. There are also Member States which are not members of Schengen, but which do want to become members and often want to introduce the euro. So there are those different speeds. So I cannot rule out the direction in which Mr Koole thinks, because I cannot predict exactly how this debate on the rule of law is developing. As far as I'm concerned, you should be able to reach harder agreements in the end. So I can't rule it out. But at the same time, if we are so full of value communities, it is difficult to imagine that you are saying to a Member State: well, you are actually doing only 80% of human rights, or 70% of the freedom of the press. It's hard to imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u341	Which is actually the situation in reality at the moment. Anyway, that aside. I have a question about the situation at the external borders. My questions are very focused on co-responsibility of the Netherlands around actions by Frontex, for example. Frontex simply cannot support countries that do not respect international or European human rights. And they do. I understand that the Minister may have the feeling that he is going into the field of his colleague, but I would very much like to ask him to contact his colleague, the State Secretary responsible, and to send us this information by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u342	I am sure that this is an opportunity for a broader debate and not just for a letter. Let me say what I can say about it now. What I share with Mrs Karimi is that the conclusion reached earlier, namely that Frontex has not given sufficient follow-up to signals, recommendations and observations, including those of the Fundamental Rights Officer, is worrying. As the Netherlands, we are committed to improvement. It's also important to mark this because this also listens very closely and it's sensitive to it that there's no evidence that Frontex is involved in pushbacks. That's what I have to say. What we are in the cabinet for is the establishment of an independent monitoring mechanism. Within Frontex, too, we will focus on improving reporting and monitoring mechanisms. Besides, there's these lawsuits. I repeat my commitment to keep the Chamber informed. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the two motions. First of all, the motion with letter S by Mrs Karimi. I don't mean to be unkind, but I've already promised Mrs Oomen that. The motion has a great deal of superfluousness, so it depends on how hot you want to eat the soup. If you say that, in order to increase the joy of celebrating, we are going to give unnecessary motions of judgement Chamber, then I agree immediately, but it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u343	Just a moment, Mrs Karimi, I have not yet given you the floor. Are we talking about Mrs Karimi's letter S motion on freedom of the press?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u344	No, that was about the Special Envoy. Oh, sorry, I'm confusing two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u345	I will therefore take the floor before I give the floor to Mrs Karimi. Mrs Karimi's motion with letter S is about freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u346	I believe this is in line with the commitment I made to Mrs Oomen. But maybe Mrs. Karimi can help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u347	I do not know what commitment you made to Mrs Oomen, perhaps elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u348	I made promises to Mrs Oomen all night long.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u349	I have raised this request, the appointment of a special Envoy. You have not responded to that so far. It is now cast in the form of a motion. If you say you're going to do that, I'll say on the spot that the motion is superfluous. That is what I mentioned in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u350	Yeah, but that's a different kind of redundant. That's that your motion will be superfluous if I do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u351	If you say... I'm sorry. I'm interrupting. I am concerned that this is the first reaction I will hear from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u352	Here's what we're gonna do. I also have a few comments to make on what such a special envoy can do. I will argue this once before the Council and we will see what they think of that. That's what the motion asks. Then I'll give the motion judgment chamber. In fact, she has been promised and has become redundant. But I'll leave it to Mrs. Karimi to do with it. Mr. Chairman. Then I have Mr Koole's somewhat longer motion with letter T. On this point, the Secretary of State for JenV sends "soon" a cabinet juice valuation. Could I ask Mr Koole to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u353	Can the Minister tell us at what time that appreciation is to be expected? Because there is also some urgency in this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u354	I only have "soon" standing here. It also says that there may be another debate with the Secretary of State of JenV about it, but I do not know whether that is here or on the other side, at least what was once physically across the street. I should check it out. Here's what we're gonna do. I'm assuming that if it says "successful" here, it could be in the Chamber in two weeks. If that were not the case, I would ask the Secretary of State to inform Mr Koole of how long it will take. Well, then there's clarity about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u355	Fine. If we can agree to that, I'll hold my motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u356	Mr. Koole, I note that you have your motion, the motion in part no. 35295 with letter T, wishes to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u357	Yeah, until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u358	You will hold the motion until you remember it and wish to put it to the vote. But if you say that you are going to hold the motion, we are not going to vote on it until you ring the bell again. So it's gonna be a restrained motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u359	At the request of Mr Koole, I propose that his motion (35295, letter T) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u360	With your permission, I would ask the Secretary of State of JenV to come forward with an answer within two weeks. Maybe we can do it much faster. If that answer would take longer, I would ask him to at least indicate it. It goes without saying that it is up to Mr Koole to indicate whether or not he wants to wait another week, or one more week, but not three. I'll leave that to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u361	The motion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u362	Thank you, Mr President. And again, many thanks to the members of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u363	Minister, I assume that the motion with Mr Van Rooijen's letter V will be appreciated by your colleague from the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u364	That's right. In fact, she has been looking forward to the whole debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u365	Thank you. I had that impression. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the honourable Members' words. I have received a few more questions that I will answer. First of all, Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. He asked how I deal with the recommendations of the GRECO and the contact with them. I've checked the system. We have been asked to report to the GRECO on progress by 30 September 2022 following the fifth report, on which we launched these actions. We also agreed to do so. Then there will be another meeting where we will have a dialogue with each other on how things stand. That was indicated in the process. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked about the Venice Commission and its reaction. Yes, it's my intention... I'm also gonna send a letter to the First Chamber. In addition, in the draft mandate of the Rule of Law Committee, we proposed that the Venice Commission report be included in its task. That is also in the letter this Chamber received in December. Mrs Huizinga and Mrs Oomen both stressed the importance of the subject of disinformation. The Secretary of State and I will launch additional actions in the coming period. We will also inform the First Chamber by letter. Then Mrs Faber. Thank you for the extensive title of the handbook. That gave me a chance to do some checking and checking. It is a self-regulation project based on a subsidy path of the European Commission's principle of equal rights and citizenship programme. The sector has initiated and implemented this manual itself and therefore also sets it out as an ethical code itself. So it really is self-regulation and it falls within the policy area of OCW. In short, it came from the bottom, from the sector itself, and not from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u367	But did they also apply for the grant themselves or was it given to them? In fact, that is where the initiative lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u368	It is a subsidy scheme and they have applied for the subsidy themselves. At least that's how I understood it. It is based on the project's principle of equal rights and citizenship programme. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return briefly to a point made by Mr Koole. He mentioned Article 119, first paragraph of the Housing Act. I say to Mr Koole: my modesty fits in with that. The hardness clause that has been incorporated into the law was in fact an amendment by the co-legislator: the House of Representatives. In that sense, I will not comment on this, because it was a proposal from the co-legislator.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u369	It has indeed been an amendment, but that does not remove the responsibility of the Minister as guardian of the institutions. What is happening here is touching the relationship between the state powers. It has been recorded, but then your predecessor sent a letter to the Chamber in December, explaining that it was not just about unforeseen and unfair situations and confirming that the policy will be from the Ministry that if the policy in its view, the minister's predecessor's, deviates from the housing policy as it sees it, it may then deviate from the law. Of course, she could have said: it is in the law, but as a minister I have difficulty in implementing it in practice. Or at least she could have made a remark that it won't happen very often. But it was just confirmed that it should. I ask what the Minister thinks of this as the guardian of the institutions here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u370	I would like to thank Mr Koole for the further clarification on the Housing Act and its implementation, which my colleague, the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning, will, of course, continue to work on. I see Mr Koole's appeal that when it comes to applying the hardness clauses, we need to be more clear that we are doing so in a way that is at the heart of the hardness clause, namely that you should try to do as well as possible in the event of an unfair situation. When it comes to what is currently incorporated into a law and confirmed by the House of Representatives, I also think that this should be the starting point for my colleague's action at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u371	I agree with the latter. In the end, I have only given this as an example of what happens when the coalition agreement states: it will include hardness clauses in laws. Fortunately, not all laws have been said. I welcome this statement by the Minister that it will be ensured that in the design of hardness clauses, hopefully, this kind of general comment will no longer be avoided, that it will be limited to unforeseen, unreasonable, unfair situations with unfair results and that these other additions will not be prevented. That's a lesson for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u372	I have indeed understood Mr Koole's comment as a good illustration of what we must pay close attention to when working on this aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u373	Shortly after that. This shows exactly why my motion is important. I said this afternoon: this applies to the text of a bill, and then I look at the administration and the Council of State. It applies to the amendment, and then I look at the States-General, especially the House of Representatives. Amendments can lead to major legislative accidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u374	Thank you for that clarification. I come to Mr Van Rooijen's motion. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen that good legislation is essential to the rule of law. During the last period, we and the previous cabinet have already worked without delay to improve certain aspects of the legislation. I'm going to mention it for the sake of completeness. We are currently working on further strengthening the quality of legislation, with simplicity, human size and feasibility at the forefront. The Minister for Legal Protection and the Minister for Justice and Security are working on this. Furthermore, as has just been pointed out, we have now set out five lines of action in the area of further strengthening the quality of policies and legislation. I call talent scouting and follow-up planning for legal management functions. We are working on inter-departmental mobility policies, a new impetus for recruitment and image, the common embedding standards, and we continue to promote this. I have also mentioned the Handleiting constitutional review. We're working on the inventory of harsh legislation. We do this not only in all ministries but also externally; we consult outside. I would like to say to Mr Van Rooijen that we are going to look at this explicitly as well, whether there is a need to adapt these laws and regulations. I would like to point out that we are fully engaged in improving the quality of legislation on the various aspects of this motion. This is also the case in connection with the call made earlier in the House of Representatives. That's why we've already started working. That is why I would like to conclude for the moment that I am actually doing what the motion asks of me. I am already working on this with my colleagues, and I have an extensive programme to do so. That's why I'm going to dissuade the motion. We are in the middle of a journey where we are doing what is really necessary. I really agree with Mr Van Rooijen that it is very necessary to do so. I have also promised to inform the House of this in a separate letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u375	Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Rooijen has a short supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u376	Thank you for the Minister's reply. In the previous answer, she has actually indicated that. In my motion, I explicitly ask for a task force for the whole of the legislation from 2000. My motion calls for a task force of top lawyers to find out where that legislation requires repair. That is not what the Minister is replying to. That's what the motion asks for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u377	There are excellent legislative lawyers in the various departments who have been given the task of looking at all legislation on heart-moistries. So this doesn't just happen with legislation from the year 2000, it just really happens with all the legislation currently in force in the ministries. It can't be much more complete. If we only looked at legislation available from 2000, you would actually limit it. They have been given the task of looking fully and comprehensively at the legislation currently in force. So there's just a lot of people working on it right now. So I would not like to add a separate structure to that, because that responsibility for doing this very well is already felt in the ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u378	The Minister now repeats what she said before. She's talking about human size, feasibility, heart humidity. I say that this is all at the edges of the quality of legislation. I am concerned with the substance of the legislation, which is legal at the highest legal level. Bills must be made at this level. And as far as the past goes, we have to look back. We need to look closely at whether this legislation meets the requirements, especially with all the experience and knowledge we have gained with box 3 and the surcharges. That's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u379	That thoroughness is also necessary, because, of course, we also need to learn from what has really gone wrong over the past period. It's in different ways. This is about the feasibility of policies, but also about the quality of legislation. I won't repeat myself. I explained that we are also going to work on this quality quite widely, from the Academy of Legislation, but also with those five lines. That's really how we're gonna get that back on track. And fortunately, we also have a lot of good law lawyers within the ministries. But we also need to make sure that we get that even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u380	Thank you. Are you with this at the end of your speech, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u381	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u382	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-11.u383	I come to the end of the debate on the rule of law, fundamental rights and democracy in the European Union. I propose that we vote next week on motions S and V, now that Mr Koole's T motion has been held. This brings us to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the two ministers and the staff who made this meeting possible.
