ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the state of law, fundamental rights and democracy in the European Union. I recall that speaking time includes that of the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is 70 years since the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, the predecessor of the current EU, entered into force, next 25 July. Robert Schuman and Jean Monnet, the two founding fathers of European integration, had found out in person what life means in dark times in Europe. In the words of Bertolt Brecht: "Wenn da nur Unrecht war und keine Empörung." Barely seven years after the Second World War, marked by the devastating consequences of the crimes of the Nazi regime, Europe sought the way to the future. Close cooperation, the intertwining of economic interests and genuine solidarity between the European nation states became the basic components of modern Europe. Herein lies the path to the future, to peace, security and freedom. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Ministers in their new positions here and wish them a great deal of wisdom and enthusiasm on behalf of my group. Today's debate is relevant and very urgent. It is nothing less than the essence, the foundation, in short, the soul of the European Union. These are citizens' freedoms and fundamental rights. It is about the aspiration to prevent the ghosts of violence, tyranny and fascism from gaining ground again. It is a question of respecting our widely-behaved values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy and the rule of law. Unfortunately, compliance with these values is not going well in more and more EU countries, and in some countries, such as Hungary and Poland, things are actually going very badly. In Hungary, the rule of law is almost completely dismantled. Orbán's illiberal democracy stands for a corrupt and authoritarian regime which, unfortunately, is increasingly an attractive example for others, both inside and outside the EU. Apparently, on the one hand, you can take full advantage of the benefits of EU membership such as the internal market and European subsidy jars, and on the other hand you can violate the rights of your own citizens, not attract you to European law and undermine the unity of the EU. Poland is the other country where the democratic rule of law is systematically undermined. The government of Jaroslaw Kaczyński puts a bomb under the EU's fundamental principles by not respecting the rulings of the European Court of Justice and challenging the primacy of EU law to national law. Not only independent justice, the freedom of the media and fundamental rights such as women's rights and the rights of lhbti are at stake; the new revelations about the eavesdropping of the opposition by intelligence services also call into question the legitimacy and legality of the elections in Poland. How could it have come to this? The most important instrument in EU law for protecting democratic constitutional values is Article 7 of the EU Treaty. The Article 7 procedures against Poland and Hungary have been stagnant in the Council for years. It is very important for the credibility and effectiveness of the EU that the Council should at last express its opinion formally and make recommendations. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this? What ideas does the government have to increase the effectiveness of Article 7, including in the context of a possible treaty change? What is the Minister's position on the option of adjusting the procedural requirements in such a way that there can no longer be situations in which two Member States keep each other out of hand, that is to say, abolishing the requirement for unanimity in paragraph 2 of the article? Of course, my group realises that a treaty amendment which again requires unanimity may take a long time. But both the German coalition agreement and the Dutch agreement refer to a treaty change. That is a relevant political fact. The question then arises as to whether the Netherlands is willing to make an interstate complaint against Hungary and Poland itself or with other States, and not to leave everything to the Commission. In the meantime, new instruments have also been introduced, such as the annual... I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u3	I'm waiting for a good time to get you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u4	Okay. ... such as the European Commission's annual legal status report and the conditionality mechanism on the EU budget. These must be used effectively. The Commission's annual report on the state of law is, in principle, a good instrument, but it needs to be strengthened. The reports lack the subject of respect for fundamental rights and human rights, and this means, for example, that pushbacks at the EU's external borders remain outside these reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mrs Faber of the PVV has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr President, my time is running!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u8	I'll stop him. Very good. You're right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will, of course, give Mrs Karimi an extra stage with my interruption! Anyway... Mrs Karimi talks about Poland and Hungary in relation to an Article 7 procedure. An Article 7 procedure requires unanimity at the European summit, but as everyone knows, Poland and Hungary are holding each other over. That is also somewhat understandable, because they are Member States which want to protect their own values and traditions and do not want to be overruled by the European Union. Now Mrs Karimi says: we can't just do that, so we're going to make another treaty. But if we make another treaty, everyone has to agree to it, right? Do you really think Hungary and Poland are going to agree to this? Isn't that an impossible task you're asking of the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u10	I think Mrs Faber has repeated exactly what I said, namely that this is a failure of the procedure we have now, that we are not getting any further. This, while those same countries, Poland and Hungary, have, of course, signed up for accession to the European Union with everything that goes with it, including Article 2 of the Treaty, which sets out all these values. The moment you see that that cannot be realized because the procedure has become a wash nose, you have to change that procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u11	But then I can conclude: if one does not do what one wants, we will change the rules during the game. That is how reliable the European Union is! It is true, of course, that Hungary and Poland have signed the Treaty, but it is not as you unilaterally say that it is not true, that there is no democracy at all and that the media are under pressure. Because let's not forget the state of the media in the Netherlands! What about the judiciary? I don't hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u12	Of course, Poland and Hungary have signed for everything. But now they are not sticking to Europe's important values. I am surprised that Mrs Faber is standing here defending people and regimes who actually leave their own people in the cold. Everything that offers their own citizens legal protection, they have dismantled. I do not understand why Mrs Faber is standing there defending these politicians. Tell me who your friends are, and I'll tell you who you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u13	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u14	Well, if we're gonna start like this, I can open up a booklet about Mrs Karimi, who was faking asylum applications at the time, who in the case of a terrorist Iranian...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u15	Well, well, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u16	Okay, I'll stop talking about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u17	Now we get to the category of personal facts, and we don't do that here. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u18	They're facts, as you say. And facts need to be named, because if you're not going to name facts, you can never solve the problems. But that aside. However, Mrs Karimi first says that Poland and Hungary have signed. Yeah, they signed. They also signed off on the fact that you need unanimity to change things. That's what they signed up for. In any case, they play that game well. So there are still some contradictions. Then Mrs Karimi says: you are standing here defending a regime and so on, and so on, and so on. I tell you, through the President to Mrs Karimi, that I wish we had a prime minister like Orbán. We're stuck here with a paper guy who opens the borders, who doesn't defend our traditions. That's what bothers us. Thanks to Orbán among others, that border is now close to the east side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u19	What is your question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr President, I understand that you are asking me to do so. You are right, but I was, of course, personally attacked for defending a regime here, and so on, and so on. So that's what I'm responding to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u21	Mrs Faber is here to defend Orbán and has also expressly expressed her wish that she would like to have a Prime Minister as Orbán. I'm not. Let me just be very clear about that. I have many more stories about Orbán. So I'd say prepare yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u22	Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks talks very much about Poland and Hungary and the rule of law there. There'd be a lot of things wrong. Now, on 3 February, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance voted for the fourth extension of the Temporary Law on measures covid-19, the Emergency Act, which violates the fundamental rights of many Dutch people, leading to enormous polarisation in society. You have a lot of criticism of all kinds of other countries within the EU, but I would say: look at what you yourself are doing in the Netherlands in terms of fundamental rights. Because it is a far-reaching disproportionate restriction of the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people. How do you see this in relation to all the criticism of all those other countries, I ask Mrs Karimi?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u23	We can repeat the debate on corona here, but I do not think that is the intention of the debate. I just want to say that my colleague Margreet de Boer, our spokesperson who is also here, has constantly raised the issue of dilemmas in the choices you make, public health versus individual freedoms, for example. Well, then you always have to consider things. There may also be moments where we come to this point and say that the restrictions are no longer proportionate to, for example, the objectives of public health. But so far it has been a constant balance between fundamental rights and protection of public health. And right to life. Don't forget, that's the very first fundamental right. The right to life. The way in which GroenLinks works is the way in which making decisions based on these considerations is the way in which GroenLinks works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u24	I note that GroenLinks works with double standards. So for Orbán, Poland and other EU countries there is a very critical view and in the Netherlands there is no problem of restricting fundamental rights, I understand. But I hear a bit of moving insight that GroenLinks might agree, like us, to the repeal of this law which is extremely disproportionate to fundamental rights. So I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u25	It's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u26	That is, of course, a summary that has nothing to do with what I said. But I will leave that on Mr Otten's behalf. In addition, the Commission does not draw any specific conclusions from the reports and does not make any concrete recommendations, which gives the reports a non-binding nature. Is the Minister prepared to call on the Commission to strengthen this instrument both by broadening the human rights reports and by making conclusions to make country-specific recommendations? It is also clear from the Council's approach that the reports lead to few actions. Five to ten reports are published annually under the heading of Rule of Law Dialogue on the Council's agenda in alphabetical order. Three sessions of Rule of Law Dialogue have taken place since November 2020, with talks about the situation in Germany, Denmark and Ireland, but not Poland and Hungary. This shows little sense of urgency. Is the Netherlands prepared to argue in favour of setting up reports based on the content and problems identified by the report? Another important instrument is the conditionality mechanism, which can limit subsidies and money flows to the Member States concerned. The opinion of the Advocate General to the EU Court is also clear in this regard. The conditionality mechanism has the right basis, is compatible with Article 7 and does not infringe the principle of legal certainty. When does the Minister expect a concrete step from the Commission in the deployment of the mechanism? And can the Minister promise that the Dutch Government will urge the Commission to bring this mechanism into force as soon as possible? It is also very important that the findings in the Commission's annual reports are linked to concrete suggestions for the conditionality mechanism. What violations have what financial consequences? Is the Minister prepared to argue in favour of this link? Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is deeply concerned about the state of democracy. In the last year and a half I have been part of five OSCE election observation missions, from the presidential elections in the US to the parliamentary elections in Kyrgyzstan. Unfortunately, everywhere the picture is worrying. Occasionally you can see positive changes in election administration, but unfortunately, abuse of power, intimidation, manipulation of laws and regulations, fraudulent campaign funding, fake news and the muzzling of independent journalism in more and more countries is the reality. This is also evident from the publications of Freedom House, the Eurobarometer and many others. The emergence of anti-democratic parties using democracy and the rule of law to create an anti-democratic, autocratic state, including in our own country, is the other worrying threat. With David Van Reybrouck, we think it is high time for radical innovations. The present democratic system goes back to the end of the eighteenth century and the beginning of the nineteenth century. After 200 years of standstill in the system, innovations and innovations such as new forms of civic participation and citizenship education are urgently needed. Democracy needs democratic citizens. What plans does this government have for this purpose? I would urge both ministers to increase citizenship and participation in the Netherlands and Europe? What are the plans for innovation in the democratic system? How does the Foreign Minister assess the participation of citizens in the Conference on the Future of Europe? Does this function as a civil platform and can it be extended on a more structural basis in the future? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Freedom of the press is an important part of a democratic society, but journalists are increasingly facing intimidation and threats, both physically and online. The online hatred and threat against female journalists is particularly worrying. Unground lawsuits based on slander and slander, so-called SLAPPs, lead to costly and time-consuming procedures, which discourage journalists from doing proper reporting in the future, the so-called chilling effect. Threatening lawsuits has the same effect. In the Netherlands, one in five journalists has to do with such legal actions. In 2018, the Minister of JenV promised to investigate this problem. So far, no news of this has been received. Can the Minister give an indication of the state of the investigation? In addition, interest groups use financial resources or political pressure against media in different countries. This leads to loss of independence. Sometimes this goes so far that, as in Hungary, there are virtually no independent media anymore. During our European Affairs Committee's discussion with Commissioner Jourová last Tuesday, she was crystal clear in response to my question as to whether a democratic free and fair election was possible in Hungary this year. She had great doubts. It could not see how a fair election would be possible in a country without free media. She's not the only one with that concern. Hungarian NGOs, the opposition, 62 members of the European Parliament and the US urge ODIHR, OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, to send a robust and comprehensive European monitoring mission to Hungary. Does the Dutch government support this appeal and is the Minister willing to support ODIHR generously in a possible observation mission? Overall, responses from the EU have so far had little impact over 12 years of Orbán. The chances of the Orbán party pulling a majority out of the ballot box are enormous. What response does the Dutch Government intend to take in such a situation, bilaterally and at EU level? Four more years of muddling with Orbán in the EU will cause irreversible damage. With what legitimacy could the EU talk about democratic values in the world? Does the Minister recognise the urgency that my group feels?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u27	On the elections. The OSCE ODIHR I'll explain what that is; that's the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, and that's also observing elections in 2018, as already stated in 2018 that there is just a framework in Hungary that provides a good basis for democratic elections. This is somewhat contradictory to what you are saying here, I say to Mrs Karimi through the President. How do you see that? Or are you saying that the opinion of the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights is noisy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u28	It is very interesting where Mrs Faber got that, because the ODIHR report on 2018 and also on 2014 was very critical. In 2018, following the election observation mission, ODIHR said that there was free but not fair elections. Because there was intimidation, because there was a vote bribery, because there was no free elections. Do you really know what the situation in Hungary is now? Free media isn't there anymore. What they're doing right now is sending door to door volunteers to spread two pages of printed news. That's what they did during Communist rule. That is the situation in Hungary now, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u29	I have other information from the OSCE here. They say that there is simply an adequate basis for democratic elections. If you make such allegations of intimidation and that it's all...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u30	I'm not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. That's what the...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u31	I call Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you just made all kinds of accusations that weren't so neat and then I'd like to support them. Can you prove that? I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u33	Why don't you read the report one more time? I'm willing to send out the report. I am also prepared to send these messages from Reuters on 2 February, which talk about the practices I have just appointed. If you just read newspapers, you will hear and see what is going on in Hungary. Mr. Chairman. By giving Commissioner Jourová an explicit mandate in the area of freedom of the media, the European Commission has taken an important step to properly monitor this fundamental freedom. She is currently in the process of consulting on a regulation on media freedom and she is also coming up with anti-SLAPP regulation. What is the Dutch Government's commitment to these initiatives by Commissioner Jourová? My group is keen to see the government working very actively on these initiatives. The European Parliament also pays great attention to the freedom of the media and the security of journalists. However, in the interplay of European institutions, the Member States are lagging behind. That is why I propose that the Netherlands take the initiative to appoint a special Envoy for the Freedom of Media for the Council. I presented this idea to Commissioner Jourová, on which she responded enthusiastically. She is currently missing a clear counterpart from the Council, argued. The subject of media in Member States is brought together by different directors. Is the Foreign Minister prepared to advocate the appointment of a special Envoy for the Freedom of Media to the Council? Is he also prepared to appoint in his own ministry a special envoy for the freedom and security of multiform journalistic media, similar to the existing functions for the themes climate and freedom of religion and belief? Mr. Chairman. Fundamental rights and human rights apply to all. Human rights of migrants and refugees are clearly, systematically and for a long time being violated at the external borders of Europe. Through the thorough work of NGOs and journalists, we have a lot of information on violence and torture against refugees and migrants at the EU's external borders. Pushbacks are the order of the day right now. The Member States of Lithuania and Poland have enshrined the pushbacks, which go against international law, even in their national legislation. Where is the Commission to maintain? The Netherlands is also co-responsible for these practices at the external borders, as the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs pointed out in its last opinion. The Netherlands is a member of Frontex's management board and supplies people and materials to Frontex and also to a Member State like Lithuania. How does the Minister see the role of the Netherlands in the management board and the other contributions to Frontex in the context of co-responsibility for human rights violations? My group would like to hear very clearly from the Minister what his commitment is to improve respect for the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees at the EU's external borders, to improve the functioning and transparency of Frontex and to combat pushbacks. Mr President, I shall conclude. To believe in the ideals of democracy, the rule of law and human rights enshrined in the Treaty on European Union, you need not be born in Europe. In fact, Orbán, Kaczyński and their political relatives in Europe show that you can be born and raised in Europe and yet trample on the fundamental principles of the rule of law and democracy. You do not even have to live in Europe to uphold democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights, because they are universal values born and evolved from the history of humanity and inspire millions of people from all corners of the earth. However, European politicians and citizens have the opportunity, after the horrific experiences of two world wars, to build a legal and value community, ethnic cleansing, genocide and totalitarianism on this continent. Given the previous and the emergence of unfree powers such as China and autocratic and even dictatorial regimes in four different countries at this time, it is doubtful whether the EU will succeed in sustaining the promise of a community of values and rights. Historical times call for historical deeds. Will this Dutch government, this team of ministers and this foreign minister acknowledge the signs of our time and act proactively and decisively? We look forward to the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u35	I listened with interest to Mrs Karimi. The two pillars of its speech are the rule of law on the one hand and democracy on the other. I think Mrs Karimi also hears that there is a lot of tension in that. You started with the rule of law and made a number of very critical comments about Poland and Hungary in terms of homosexual rights, but also medical ethics, abortion and the obstacles they create. After that, you are very concerned about the democratic influence of the opinion of the people. Of course, that's not the same thing. Under the rule of law, you say "to deal with those countries," but I suspect that a large part of Poland and the Hungarians really think differently from Mrs Karimi about the right to life, unborn life, gay marriage and so on. There's tension on that. What scope do these countries and their people have, if democratically speaking, to follow a different path than the one which Brussels may favour by a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u36	Of course, that is always the question: how do the different fundamental rights relate to each other? Think of freedom of expression in relation to the principle of equality. There's always... so that's nothing new, I'd like to say. Only, the problem is that in Poland and Hungary people are losing more and more space to decide for themselves what they want. I referred to what is now practice in Hungary, for example. I referred to the wiretap scandal. So we do not even know whether the elections have been won fairly. So in that sense, I say yes, democracy is very important, at least for me, and it is incredibly important that it takes shape, but it must be embedded in the rule of law and freedom. The point I made is that these days dictatorships have become nice to organise elections. They organize an election and say, "Look, the people want that." But those elections are not free. The laws and regulations are not correct and the independence of justice has been compromised, which has actually undermined everything that makes the elections meaningful, in Dutch, in good Dutch. That's actually what my story's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u37	I find it somewhat creepy that we are going to pretend that we know better here how the Poles and the Hungarians think. But apart from that, let us assume for a moment that the majority of Poland and the majority of Hungarians have great difficulty with abortion. They just want it to be laid down in legislation and they don't see anything in gay marriage either. Let me put it briefly. If this is achieved by democratic means, is there room in the EU of Karimi for those countries that do not necessarily fit in with the secular morality we want, so to speak, but with their individuality, their beliefs? Is this scope for diversity there in the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u38	First of all, there is the assumption in your speech that the population wants something different. But I also see these women's demonstrations. I also see that those women in Poland are just going out on the streets, and not just women. Men also go out on the streets and protest against these new laws. That's first. The second is that I'm not a cultural relativist, if that's what you want to hear. So I do believe in universal human rights. It's been years, decades, centuries for women to fight for their rights. Gays and other people fight for their rights. So it is indeed about emancipation. I will always stand beside those who fight for emancipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u39	Last time, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u40	Yeah, last time. Sometimes it scares me a little bit. To stand up for rights sounds very good, but there are also countries that stand up very strongly for the rights of unborn life. My point is that this is also perfectly legitimate. It would be a great deal of impoverishment to say within the EU: no, we cannot be that diverse, we want to exclude this and punish it with sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u41	I would like to have the debate on abortion with Mr Van Dijk, but this is not about unborn life versus women's rights. This is about women making their own decisions about how they deal with it and the church, the mosque, the state has nothing to say about the woman's body.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. In any case, let me begin by saying that I am very pleased that Mark Rutte is our Prime Minister and that Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Hoekstra are our Minister for the Interior and Foreign Affairs. I look forward to substantive debates over the next few years. Let me get this straight. There are some conditions that you should meet if you're successful. I've thought about it a little longer during the Christmas celebrations. We are not une chambre de réflexion for nothing. I have come to the conclusion that these conditions apply not only to persons but also to marriages, companies and organisations. The core is in my view: reliability, loyalty, respect and mutual trust. If this is achieved, success is within reach, also because there is a gun factor. You allow each other a little more and when you sporadically fly off the bend, it is covered with the cloak of love. And that could be a party, too. But that's got to be sporadic. It certainly should not be the case that the government's policy is to deliberately deviate or ignore agreements, to implement regulations improperly and not to declare judgments of the Court of Justice to be valid. Of course, no cooperation is perfect, neither is the administrative bodies. In the Netherlands, too often, the government drops, sometimes too often. The legal protection of citizens and the democratic rule of law require constant attention. The European Commission's reports also draw attention to this, and rightly so. Fortunately, however, we know a government that takes these comments seriously, acts on them and makes improvements if possible. And that's the way it should be. My group welcomes this debate. This was an important issue for us in the debate on the Multiannual Financial Framework and in the ratification of the Own Resources Decision, and why? Not only because rules have to be observed, but because of the belief that the rule of law, embedded in a free, liberal open market economy, is the best guarantee of prosperity and well-being. At the time, the debate focused on the link between the rule of law principles and the necessary reforms to qualify for benefits from the Recovery and Resilience Facility. A link which, in my view, and my group's vision, could have been a little stronger, because it must also be said that the European Union is being financially disadvantaged and that the conditions laid down are not met. Anyway, a compromise is a compromise and you cannot bring it all in. But today, Mr President, during this debate, we can take a broader approach to the subject and also involve Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union. The Commission's communications and the blueprint for action consider respect for fundamental rights and the protection of the rule of law essential to the progressing Community process. Rightly so, but despite all good intentions, the communication is also very disappointing. The Commission speaks of a shared responsibility of all Member States, all EU institutions, and focuses on greater transparency, more dialogue and more explanation. That is good to hear, but is it not the case, I would ask the Minister, that the Commission is the guardian of the Treaties and is often the sole right of initiative? In other words, does the Commission not shy away too much from its responsibility? The Council and Parliament are largely dependent on the Commission's initiatives and are therefore, to some extent, limited in their action. I'd like a reflection on this. More dialogue, more explanation, more transparency, but what is the point, I ask the Minister, if it is obvious that there is a dialogue between the souls? I can support this with a litany of examples. Let me start with a recent report from the European Court of Auditors. I hope that the Minister will also consider the European Court of Auditors' reports as important in his new role as in his previous role. The report comments on the programme of EUR 700 million to better anchor the principles of law in society. It is noted that these EUR 700 million have had little effect because of the lack of political will to implement reforms. At least progress has been made in the area of freedom of expression. There is no social support for reforms and the regimes have become authoritarian rather than more democratic, the Court notes. Now you will say, Minister: yes, but Van Ballekom, that report is about pitiful entrants. That is true, but if there is any political reluctance at the stage of accession negotiations to anchor the rule of law principles in the legal system and act accordingly, then I wonder what the intentions of these governments and Member States will be when they have joined. It doesn't usually get any better. It puts pressure on the progress and sustainability of the accession process, I believe. My group is very concerned about this. I would like a response from the government to this report from the Court of Auditors. Does the government share our concerns? What political and policy implications should this have? Because before we know it, we will allow new members to join the club who will behave in the same way as, for example, Poland and Hungary. Then that four-fifths majority necessary to activate Article 7 becomes completely unfeasible, let alone that the European Council can decide unanimously to ratify that decision. This is never going to happen, because one Member State is keeping the other out of the wind, while the behaviour of those Member States is unacceptable in my group's view. Mr. Chairman. Fear not, I am not going to fill all day with the series of examples of unacceptable behavior. But let me start with the Polish Government's attitude to keeping the Turow brown coal mine open about the energy transition and to Fit for 55, by the way, but that is beyond the scope of this debate. The Polish Government has given the lignite mine permission to remain operational without authorisation, although this is mandatory in accordance with European regulations. The Czechs have initiated and won proceedings before the Court of Justice, which has imposed a penalty payment of €500,000 a day on Poland until the case is settled. The Poles don't pay. Why aren't they paying? Because they do not recognise the judgment of the Court of Justice. The European Commission's deduction of payments therefore has absolutely nothing to do with the rule of law, as is sometimes suggested, but with the disregard of a legal ruling. Very recently, as I understand it, the Polish Government has nevertheless agreed to issue a permit, and I hope it is a careful procedure. But it would be a good thing for the Commission and the government to keep a close eye on this, because if such things happen, it undermines the functioning of the European Union in a very serious way. Payments from the Recovery and Resilience Facility have been provisionally suspended by the Commission. Can the Minister inform the Chamber of the latest state of play on this matter? Does the suspension also apply to other Member States, such as Hungary and Slovakia? The Commission has launched several notice of formal notice procedures against the two countries in particular. Can the Minister present to the Chamber an up-to-date overview of this, including the criminal proceedings which have been initiated because of one: the establishment of lgbti-free zones in Poland, two: the information restrictions applicable to Hungarian children's education, three: the reform of the disciplinary colleges commissioned by the President of Poland, but many say that it is old wine in new bags, and four, the most important, namely the notice of 22 December last on the primacy of European law? It is quite entertaining, though the matter is too serious to read the press release of the Polish Minister of Justice. He has threatened to suspend payment to the European Union and is considering bringing the matter before the Court of Justice in order to prevent the European Commission from linking the payments from the Resilience Facility to the state of law issues, despite the fact that that has been agreed. I find it odd that you're submitting something to an agency whose jurisdiction you don't recognize at all. But I would like to encourage Poland to suspend its payment to the European Union. As long as they are the main net recipients, this will only bring benefits to the European treasury and thus to the Dutch treasury. The Minister of Justice in Poland is therefore shooting in his own foot. Well, better him than us. Now back to the seriousness of the debate. The European Affairs Committee has recently had talks with the Commissioners Reynders and Jourová. These were informative, but not always reassuring in terms of the enforceability of respecting the essential principles of a rule of law. The Commission has some instruments, but they are not always considered effective. Implicitly, Commissioner Jourová pointed out that Article 7 of the Treaty is a non-working instrument. It called for the article to be adapted in such a way as to make it easier to apply. In other words, the four-fifths majority in the Council and the unanimous confirmation in the European Council should be adjusted. Does the government support this view? What initiatives are being taken to achieve this? I can also make some suggestions to the government to achieve this. Sometimes something is considered impossible because of the unanimity required to amend the Treaty, but there are solutions to that. In the absence of effective treaty instruments, the Commission should make more and more use of default procedures. The disadvantage is that these procedures are time-consuming. Would the Minister like to check with his own legal department or with the Council or the Commission whether there is any possibility of improving and accelerating these procedures? The VVD Group would welcome information. It would be good to receive these prior to the annual debate on Europe. I thought it was held somewhere in June, or July. It would be good if that information were available before that debate. Mr. Chairman. In my party's view, it would be a good idea for the European Union to gain strength in several areas. This is not limited to the currency and the market, but it also concerns areas such as foreign policy, security, migration and climate policy, to mention just a few examples. However, success in this area and the public support for greater cooperation is in keeping with the commitments made and respecting the principles of law. With the hope of success, I started my intervention. I would like to conclude with a few questions and suggestions to the government to which my group would welcome a response. Does the government agree with my group that the enlargement process of the Union should be directly linked to respect for the principles of law, referring to the report of the European Court of Auditors? Does the government agree with my group that there must be a direct link between compliance with the Treaty provisions and obtaining benefits from the European Union? Does the government agree with my group that there can be no further transfer of competence or enlargement of the European Union as long as Article 7 of the Treaty is and remains a dead letter, so that the Commission, the Council and Parliament do not have effective tools to keep friends informed? Does the government agree with my group that the Commission's exclusive right of initiative in various policy areas is archaic? Should it not be the case that the Council and Parliament are given more powers in this area? Finally. Does the government agree with my group that it would strengthen the democratic process if it became easier to depart from Commission proposals? Finally, Mr President. Is the government prepared to use these points in the debate on the future of Europe? We want a future for Europe, which is in the interests of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u44	The story of Mr Van Ballekom appreciates and I support it in general. However, I would like to ask him a question. Both at the beginning and at the end of the story, he has implicit criticism of the European Commission for lack of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u45	Yeah, that's right. You got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u46	There must be more speed, and the instruments were even called archaic at the end. The European Commission must, of course, also show its own initiatives and speed things up. Is it not, however, and I would ask Mr Van Ballekom, that the European Commission can, to a large extent, only act with speed if the Member States in the Council give it the opportunity to do so? They must not only give them the opportunity to do so, but they must also encourage the Commission to do so. Would Mr Van Ballekom therefore agree with me that his appeal to the European Commission is actually one to the Dutch Government and to the government of other Member States to exert much more pressure in the European Council, so that we can speed things up and the Commission can really speed things up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u47	I agree with Mr Koole, but of course it is often the case that it starts with an initiative from the Commission. If it is then fired by Parliament and the Council, then you know exactly where the responsibility lies. That is the responsibility of the Council and Parliament. A great deal in the European Union cannot start a debate without an initiative from the Commission. But I fully agree with you that the pressure must be increased in all the institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u48	I'm glad to hear that. Of course, the initiative lies with the Commission, but if a Commission is erratic and slow in some respects, then of course you can also ask questions from the Member States to that Commission. Does Mr Van Ballekom agree with me that the Dutch Government should be much more active in driving the European Commission into action in the field of human rights violations and state-of-the-art violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u49	I thought the Dutch Government joined in certain court cases. First of all, that is a sign that we take it seriously as the Netherlands. Secondly, if the European Commission takes an initiative, I think that the Dutch Government is very motivated to support it. As you know, under Article 7, an initiative can be taken by a third majority, but if you know that four fifths then block it, it is of course a very strange process to make a huge effort to reach a third if you then have to achieve two baksails at stage, let alone obtain three unanimity in the European Council. I really think that a start should be made to redesign that Article 7 in a different way, so that we can really develop an instrument in which, as I said in my speech, we can keep friends in mind. I think that the Commission's right of initiative is archaic and not appropriate to a normal democratic process. That's personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u50	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u51	I agree that the circumstances, the reality, are sometimes very uncomfortable. Nevertheless, I would like to ask Mr Van Ballekom: does he not think that the government should not only show action and be associated with the Commission's activity, but also where the Commission is slow, sometimes for technical reasons, to try to ensure that the European Union, which claims to be a value community, maintains it, where the rule of law is really being violated? And does he not think that the Dutch Government should contribute actively to this at all meetings at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u52	I agree with Mr Koole. I think there's a lot going on behind the scenes, too. My experience shows that you can also exert pressure without looking up the public domain. I think the Foreign Minister can give some examples of this. I would be surprised if the Dutch Government did not support such initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u53	I would also like to put a question to Mr Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u54	From Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mr. Van Ballekom mentioned the state of law in the accession process. Is that different from the Copenhagen criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u56	No, of course they're closely linked. I only referred to that report by the European Court of Auditors because experience has shown, Mrs Oomen, that Member States are more willing to compromise before they have acceded than after they have joined. So I'm getting a little restless when, in the preliminary stage, there is unwillingness to apply certain principles of law. Then I think to myself: what will happen after they have joined? However, the principles of law and the Copenhagen criteria leading to the accession process have many agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. Do I understand correctly that the Copenhagen criteria are based on the rule of law...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u59	... and that we must take full account of them in every accession, including the accessions to the Western Balkans?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yeah, yeah. But my speech was different. In fact, I believe that you should have effective instruments if you want to extend the Union's competences further and extend the Union to other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u61	I have also listened with interest to Mr Van Ballekom's speech and to a number of points with great agreement. Have I understood correctly to Mr Van Ballekom that he says that an effective toolbox to enforce the principles of the democratic rule of law also needs a treaty change, and that he also has ideas on how, despite the unanimity requirement, we could achieve such a treaty change?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u62	I think you can hardly change Article 7 of the Treaty if you do not change the treaty. Seems as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u63	Yes, but my specific question is whether Mr Van Ballekom is also advocating such a treaty amendment and would urge the Minister to agree on it, for example in the context of a discussion on it in the conference on the future of Europe. That would be my group's heartfelt support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u64	I would welcome it if, at some point, instruments could be put in place for the European Union, the Commission, the Council and Parliament, with a view to making these principles of law more enforceable. If that is to be done with a treaty change, then it must be done with a treaty change. If it can be done in another way, I do not see it directly, but perhaps we will hear a reflection from the ministers on that, then it could also be done in another way. But I think that's hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u65	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u66	Finally. That is where we find each other, Mr Van Ballekom and I. Maybe I can come back to that point of those Copenhagen criteria, because that is what I think is right. Those Copenhagen criteria are indeed there to ensure that Member States wishing to join comply with the principles of the rule of law. The problem is that once they are accepted, those criteria will no longer be enforced effectively. So it's a process in advance. Candidate countries will then be under pressure to reform, but once they have been let in, that pressure will be gone. That is why, I think, we should come to an effective instrument. Does Mr Van Ballekom agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u67	Then perhaps you did not listen to my speech properly. That is precisely what I am asking the government four for. Does the government agree with me and with my group that we should not extend the European Union until there is an effective instrument to enforce those principles of law? Then there's a direct link.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u68	I got it right, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u69	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u70	Following what you said, these General European Reviews are currently planned for 17 May 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u71	Then the government will have less time to answer questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u72	I shall now give the floor to Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to continue the debate with Minister Hoekstra, now in a new role. And on behalf of the D66 Group, I wish Mrs Bruins Slot every success in her new position. I look forward to a closer acquaintance. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we see the rulers who go abroad and inland together behind the table in the context of a debate on Europe is a novelty for me, but I think it is perfectly fitting in the development of the European Union. There the rulers of JenV would not have been wrong, but well, we can also deal with these rulers today, I think. There is also a logical order in this debate in the development of the European Union, Mr Van Ballekom, who already outlined it a little bit from the economy to values, human rights and security. To focus on BZK's portfolio, the minister's predecessors have struggled tremendously with that fourth layer of government. Was it or was it not allowed to come in their own country? We did not want to do that, but he has of course been doing so slowly since 1950, because the European Union is a layer of administration that has developed organically, with institutions, with policies and with legislation, which is very far-reaching in the legal and administrative organisation of our country. And that refers to these rulers, but also to all other rulers in other departments. So it is not just about a European Public Prosecutor's Office, but also about the execution of judgments and our system of legal protection. Is this legal protection properly organised and funded? That has become a question of European law. Sometimes that is a question in which colleagues raise the eyebrows. I just saw an interruption about that. We are meeting today in the former courtroom of the Supreme Court. Anyone from the Malieveld who walks past the building of the Supreme Court reads the motto "Ubi iudicia deficiunt, incipit bellum." This means: "Where judicial decisions fail, violence begins." In plain Dutch, we can really live up to that. It is a statement by Hugo de Groot from 1625. Minister Hoekstra was in Kiev last week. That "bellum" he could see up close. The war may be about to break out. Let us hope not, because the EU is a peace project. Mrs Karimi spoke fine words about this. National states not only cooperate, but citizens in the EU are also direct Union citizens. We owe this to the Maastricht Treaty of 1992. That was done under the Dutch Presidency and that treaty was concluded on Dutch soil. This has created the additional European legal order. It's been evolving ever since. We did get some of that at the peak of the corona time. The Union was able to do things, even those for which it was not entirely competent. Yet we were glad that they did. It has been confirmed in the Treaty of Lisbon, which codifies important support for the right-hand street and trias politicians. We can also find them in the Charter. This Charter is also starting to gain more weight. This is in the interests of Union citizens, both our Union citizens and Polish and Hungarian citizens. Mr Van Ballekom has already pointed out that this has been slow with these people. There are still many points of improvement and the D66 group is dissatisfied in this respect, but it is a slow process. Mr. Chairman. Research has been carried out by the Hague University of Applied Sciences on the way in which parliaments are provided with information on the growing volume of European legislation and policies. It was recommended that EU coordination in the Netherlands could be more strategic, more selective and skilled. This requires additional human resources, and additional changes in working methods are required. In the light of the positive coalition agreement, Article 7, in which an active ambition is expressed, my question is: is the government actually going to give hands to that? Mr. Chairman. In the last century and a half, almost all European Member States have evolved into a democratic rule of law. It has just been mentioned in connection with the Copenhagen criteria. That did not happen in a unanimous movement, and some Member States stuck halfway through. However, they have accepted those common values per treaty. This is not the end of development. The democratic rule of law never stands still, but continues to evolve. Some Member States have already gone back a long way towards autocracy. We have already talked about Mr Orbán this morning. He really is an example of that, despite Mrs Van de Klashorst's defence. He's been Prime Minister of Hungary for ten years. He's grinning at all the border photos with the European leaders. The European Union came into play with the Commission as its guardian. Switchy. We understand that there is not enough political backing from the Council. Sometimes there may be a lack of political courage. But it is important that the Union citizens of Hungary and Poland, as well as of Malta, Slovenia and the Netherlands, should not be left empty-handed when parties raise racist practices to government policy. This also applies if anti-Semitic campaigns are being conducted and if in a country there are lhbt-free zones. This has happened in Poland. The correction to such a policy, namely by the judge, was deliberately eliminated. Ubi iudicia deficiunt, incipit bellum. The judge is always the first party to take out an autocratic regime. That is the correction. Mr. Chairman. We are right to be concerned about this. If such a regime could arise here, which Mrs van de Klashorst really does not think is such a crazy idea, I would hope that the European Union, as guardian of the rule of law, would interfere with us. That is the idea of mutual dependence in the European Union that we have chosen for ourselves. Mr. Chairman. I think there's still a little bit missing from that protection. That is that the EU will become a party to the ECHR. I see Mr Kox, President of the Council of Europe, sitting up there in the gallery. I think he'd welcome that. He can see it from up there. It is important that there is a European area of justice in which autocrats cannot hide. That idea has not yet been expressed in all capitals, but not in all government buildings and not always in the Binnenhof. Mr. Chairman. I told you, it's slow. In 2016, the European Parliament adopted a resolution tabled by my colleague Sophie in 't Veld. She has always been a warrior for the rule of law. It called on the Commission to establish a comprehensive EU mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. For the sake of shortness, she called it the "right-wing deficit." That was in 2016. It's 2022 now. Orbán has been in the saddle for ten years and Hungary receives European funds. Something's not going well anyway. The Polish opposition leader was hindered in his campaign. By the way, that was a fellow senator. I got this message from the paper. That will have to be verified, but it doesn't look good. A court of friendly politicians is being installed. That is not the independent justice that we have in mind. Eventually, a case was brought before the court. Mr. Chairman. It is slow, but I see it as a milestone that we are talking about in this house and that we have a first Union Rule of Law report. This underlines the urgency of going through this, to use just one word that the Foreign Minister also uses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr. Backer is talking about the independent rule of law. Can Mr. Backer mention a PVV man who's been admitted to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u75	I cannot mention any member of the Council of State associated with any party. They are appointed as experts and competent. I know, like you, that there is a certain balance. You can, of course, tell that from the history and from the past of some members of the council. They're very diverse. Some have had a political activity, others are merely a judicial one. I don't know. I couldn't call it that, but I couldn't call it everyone else's either. The suggestion is that that member is not there. You might know better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u76	Has anyone ever applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u77	An interruption must be done via the microphone and not from the benches. That's what I've been accused of. But I do understand. Of course, that's part of the debate. Of course, you may wonder why there is no PVV member at the Council of State. I think that's politically directed. We can see that here in the First Chamber. You can see that there are people who are actually all playing the game. The moment you're in opposition, you get a whole different label. Then it's just not up to you to qualify for such a position. This applies not only to the Council of State, but also to mayors or aldermen. There's just a cordon of sanitary. Mr. Backer is talking about the rule of law. I think we should get our hands on our own first and get things right here sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u78	I will come to that point of criticism of our own rule of law. As you said at the beginning, I have focused on the European dimension of the rule of law in this debate. It's about us, too. You're right about that. I am looking at the Advisory Section and the Judicial Division. I do not think that matters at all in the case-law section. You sometimes blame my group. You then talk about the fact that judges must be from a particular political party. I think that justice should remain independent, that we should not make that link. I assume that the Advisory Section aims at a broad representation of knowledge, skills and experience. I'm not going to go over it, but I could imagine that if there are PVVs who commit to the rule of law, then of course that's a condition. Why not? But I'm not going over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u79	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u80	Is Mr. Backer insinuating that PVV's aren't participating in the constitutional thinking? Mr. Backer can't blame us for not following the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u81	But now we come to a very complicated debate. It is very difficult for me to think, when Mr Wilders and Mrs Van de Klashorst make an example of how to rule a country, what sense they have of the rule of law. Because that's in the trias politicians taking out the judge and the media. Then I think: yes, what will the Netherlands look like under the legal and democratic constitutional vision of the PVV? That's what my question is about. I don't think that these two things can be combined at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mrs Faber, really, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u83	I didn't really want to say anything anymore, because I don't think we're getting together. I'd like to make a small point of order. Mr. Backer keeps calling me Van de Klashorst. That's my maiden name, but I've been married for 28 years and proudly wear my husband's name, Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u84	You're absolutely right, excuse me. I should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u85	I could not suppress my laughter when I heard Mr Backer say that he has no knowledge of any political appointments to the Council of State. I hope that Mr Backer is so clear that he knows that Vice-President Thom de Graaf is former group chairman of D66 in the House of Representatives. Maybe that slipped Mr. Backer's mind. I can also mention a list of a number of other people who have been party-bound in the Council of State. That's exactly what's going on. But apart from that, we are talking about the rule of law here, and part of the European Commission's review is also the legal system. One of the criticisms that our group has also expressed on several occasions is the Section for Justice, which, as far as we are concerned, should be included in the ordinary case law and which is now often very much so... I see Mrs Oomen of the CDA nodding very hard, which is good for me. This has also been evaluated, which is too often judged in favour of the administration. The Council of State itself is also aware of this, I believe, through your former party mate De Graaf. How does Mr Backer feel about that? This gives a certain connection with the case law section, with the administration. It is often resolved administratively. That is very unsatisfactory. We have seen this, for example, in the case of the premium affair. I look forward to hearing Mr Backer's views on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u86	So do I, but I suggest that we return to the European Union immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u87	These are broad and important questions that Mr Otten is asking. There has, of course, been a very long debate on the division of opinions and case law. There's been a bill. In the end, this has not been pursued for all kinds of reasons, which I will not discuss briefly here. And yes, the European Commission has made several comments, for example that there is no constitutional court in the Netherlands. If you go through the whole list of all the points in the rule of law mechanism and the European Commission's scoreboard, you will see that all kinds of countries have certain things. But the Commission says that there are also legal traditions. There are also constitutional traditions. So it doesn't all have to be in the same way as it is guaranteed that there is an independent justice. Now I come to the important point raised by Mr Otten. In the end, there has been a correction, not only to the government's proposals, because the cabinet has resigned, but justice has also looked at itself. There has been a change in the way in which the Administrative Department acts in cases. I do not see that happening so easily in countries where the rule of law does not work. So I think that all of this is signs, with all the criticism that there may be, that the rule of law is working to a reasonable extent. Anyway, there are improvements possible, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u88	First of all, on a point of order, Mr President. It was agreed in committee that the European Commission's review of the Dutch rule of law system would be part of this debate. So it strikes me that you are trying to explain that outside the order of this debate. I see Mrs Oomen nodding again. That is therefore part of the debate. There are four criteria for this, including the legal system, the media, fundamental rights and so on. I will come back to that in detail in my contribution. But also by eminent lawyers, I refer to Michiel Scheltema, who has been urged for decades to place the Department of Justice in the ordinary courts. We would be strongly in favour of this. You say it's being evaluated a little bit and it's been solved. I do not think that is a fundamental solution. So I am going to try one more time with Mr Backer: is he in favour of that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u89	In advance, no. In the end, this will be discussed and I will, of course, look into the subject when it comes back on the table. But I myself do not feel that there is a beginning of an improvement, if there should be. I myself am more in favour of a constitutional court. I believe that the exchange between the Supreme Court, the Central Board of Appeal and the Council of State to do justice together at meetings is the way of a link in the Justice Division. You know, I'm a little less sensitive to the climate of mistrust, I'm not saying that you say that if there are two different bodies in one organisation, it's probably not right that the advisory section should be able to do the same because it's also connected with the government or with justice. That is often in the discussion; I am not saying that the committee says so. That doesn't appeal to me. I would say that it is not that I do not want to have the debate with Mr Otten. Only I've got 17 minutes. We have a long interruption now. I can't really deepen all the subjects. This is an important subject. I think that is what we have exchanged; that is all I could say about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u90	Besides, I haven't declared it out of order, I remember. There is today a focus on the European dimension of the rule of law. That's how you answered the question. Later this year we will have another debate on the Dutch rule of law. Then, among other things, we can deal with this subject with a little more depth. But I didn't declare anything out of order, Mr. Otten. So that's a misunderstanding. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u91	No, but the rule of law mechanism has a review, published by the European Commission, on which input has been given by the Dutch government. That is a review of 30 pages, very interesting, where all kinds of aspects of the Dutch rule of law are placed in a European perspective. As far as we are concerned, I see a lot of people nodding, so it is indeed a subject of debate today. I just wanted to stress that. Moreover, Mr Backer finds our group entirely on his side in his appeal for a constitutional court. We're very much in favour of that. However, I wonder if Mr Backer will still see a role for the First Chamber. Or could it then be abolished in that spirit, and could the constitutional review belong exclusively to that court? That is another question I had to ask Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u92	You will speak to me first. I don't disagree with you at all. I have also stated nothing out of order, just insisted on some focus and pointed out the opportunity later this year to discuss the Dutch rule of law in more detail. Mr. Backer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. I would find it careless to end this high-level meeting and this Chamber in two minutes to discuss its future. I hope that Mr Otten, who plays a role in this Chamber, does not blame me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u94	Then I suggest you continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. We were at the milestone that it was all slow after all, but that the Recovery Fund in this process can give a boost to the cycle of reporting, infringement and monitoring and that it should not wait for that. In the letter, the government expressed the important principle that respect for the rule of law is an essential condition. Mr Van Ballekom put this into practice. I agree with that. It's also in Article 2. So it is, but what initiatives are the European Commission and the European Council taking to encourage this? And what initiatives does the government take to encourage this? I agree with the calls made by Mr Karimi and Mr Van Ballekom. In response to Mrs Faber's interruption, I would like to say right now that it is not so much a question of whether this commitment to treaty change is feasible right away, but whether you would like to get started. I am referring to the four-fifths majority in the European Parliament or unanimity in the Council. So things get blocked all the time. If the Minister would promise that he would like that commitment, I would be happy to go on that path. I'm afraid I provoked Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mr Backer says: okay, then it can't be feasible. But you're not going to deal with things that aren't feasible, are you? We have something else to do, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u97	I believe that I am three quarters of my time in this Chamber dealing with things that are almost unfeasible, but which will come after a while. I think that since 1950 the European Union has been seen by many as an unachievable project. Yet we have come. If you don't want to commit yourself to unachievable projects, I don't think Mrs Faber was in the Chamber here either. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to go back to the MFF funds, the joint budget and the way it is spent. It is not only politically and morally undesirable that it is a weak legal order, but it also leads to suboptimal allocation of common money, money covered by the MFF. New to the European meeting tables is conditionality. I don't know what it's like with you, but my spelling check doesn't know the word. The word "conditionality" always came up red. Perhaps that is one of the reasons why the European Commission has apparently not been so quick on this. But it's in the regulation anyway. In it, the link has been established with the right to draw the funds, but yes, of course, it is very well defined. It concerns violations that threaten to seriously affect the financial management or protection of the interests of the Union. I think that Mr Van Ballekom and Mrs Karimi are right to say: you should tighten that up, otherwise you will not get there. We also supported the Vendrik motion on this. This is, of course, disputed in the sinners in the European orchestra, but we would like to see it strengthened. Would the government care to ensure that this rule of law, with its conditionality, which has been in force for 13 months, is respected and deployed within the framework of the rule of law? And is the government perhaps willing to argue that the mechanism is set up in this way, for example by default settings or a menu of choice, that you say on the basis of expert advice: we do this, unless there is a reverse decision not to do so? This gives you a mechanism that is not always politically controversial. This has also been suggested in the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Furthermore, Mr President, what would be the answer if the European Court of Justice, unexpectedly, allocated the complaints of Poland and Hungary? I understand that the "what if" question is never popular with the government, but I would find it interesting to reflect on it. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a value community, but we also have an economic community. I would like to thank the Minister for the CPB report on the benefits of the European Union which we have become at the request of this Chamber. This shows that the Netherlands is clearly one of the most profitable countries in the European internal market. We are only talking about trade flows, but there are, of course, many more benefits. The Netherlands is always aware of this economic aspect, but the rule of law has been hesitant. Fortunately, in the final round of decisions on the Recovery Fund, the Prime Minister turned out to be a surprising defender of the rule of law mechanism. Although he was encouraged by the House of Representatives, he did. We're gonna see that. As I said, he should have done the same in his own country. Here we come to discussions on which Mr Otten and Mrs Faber hinted. Yes, there is still much to be done in the Netherlands for our system of legal protection. I would be interested to know which complaint the Foreign Minister gets most from his colleagues about non-compliance, the failure to comply with legal guarantees in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. It just came up when we were talking about Mrs. Jourová and Mr. Reynders. Mrs Jourová said that the instruments are not ideal. At one point she said: we are in Brussels and not in Moscow. That is a nice summary, but it is a pity, of course, because the EU is a different organisation from that in which it lived in its youth. I understand that, but I do not understand countries that deliberately strive for years to weaken the rule of law. This has just been discussed in an interrupting debate. I ask the Minister: what can we do bilaterally for Poland, Malta, Slovenia and the Czech Republic? It actually goes beyond Poland. Mr. Chairman. There have been minor successes. We talked about regional subsidies in Poland. The so-called lhbti-free zones have been reversed. But it's too little, too late. It is quite a step, but would it perhaps be conceivable to amend or delete Article 51 of the Charter? The Charter stipulates that it should be in the implementation of European law, but perhaps it should have a broader effect. Then it's actually more of a bill of rights. Mr. Chairman. The invitation of the artist of the work here on my left is limited in perspective to the Dutch provinces and the 75 members of this house, but Europe is much more colourful. It is a mosaic of landscapes, peoples, languages, regions, cities and villages with their own history. National borders cannot stop the values of the peoples of Europe who are cross-border. A closer approach to the European continent is taking place. That's more than economically driven. That's values-driven, too. In a world with autocratic superpowers and in which the United States, for a long time our democratic example, shave down the cliff with Donald Trump, a democratic European Union with more than 500 million inhabitants must "be a player instead of a playing field." I quote from the coalition agreement with great agreement. This power must therefore interfere with other humanitarian issues, such as migration and unacceptable situations at the external borders of Europe. There is an urgent need for action, because otherwise it undermines the credibility of all the fine words we express.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u98	Now that Mr Backer has mentioned the mosaic in the Chamber, I could not sit down. It is indeed not a large, black and grey case. It's multicolored. That is what Mr Backer Europe sees in front of him. That's incredibly beautiful. I listen with great interest to Mr Backer's story. Sometimes I think he's just getting off too easy. In my opinion, an important pillar of his story is that when countries join the EU, they also sign up to the rules of the game, even when it comes to the rule of law. I couldn't agree more, but there's a tension. I am curious to see how Mr Backer looks at this. With accession, countries, including Poland and Hungary, have not said: yes, we have also transferred our policies on family, marriage, sexuality, medical ethics and abortion. My question remains: how much room is there for these countries to have their own policies, without being flagged at, because we believe they are violating human rights? How do you see this tension?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u99	It has just been mentioned in the debate: the European Union does have a doorman at the entrance to determine who is allowed in. Then it has to comply with a number of things. But once a country is inside, there's actually a rather weak mechanism. It's actually a kind of boa that we're slowly building up to be someone with real powers. In the rule of law, I think that is one of the characteristics of the protection of minorities. I have therefore honestly never understood why the SGP considers that the European Union would not work in its favour. It is precisely the protection of minorities and of views, religions and modes. That's what the protection's about. Mrs Karimi said it very nicely: it is about universal human rights. For example, it is precisely the judiciary that is able to protect those minorities. And yes, if there are minorities who want to organize things in their own way, there is room for that. But, of course, there are tensions. We have also had this in our own country, which has just been discussed at the Corona debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u100	I understand Mr Backer's answer, but he must realise that, if you take that legal discourse so far, there will be virtually no more ground, not even the areas that we have deliberately never transferred to the EU, such as medical ethics, the family and so on. That is also the case with a large arm swing. What I am very afraid of myself and what I see in the context of Poland and Hungary is: there is room for everything in Europe, but do not stand up for traditional morality, when it comes to a marriage between a man and a woman or the protection of unborn life, because it affects human rights. So how diverse is Europe? I can see tension in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u101	Given the time, I'd like a brief answer, Mr. Backer, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr President, I am entirely in your hands. I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u103	If possible, please give a brief answer, because we are running very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u104	In short, in Mr Van Dijk's speeches, I hear that if a political majority in a country does not represent the views he represents, something would not be correct in that democracy and something would be imposed on top of everything. No, there is democracy, including in Poland. But the point is that if there is another majority in Poland, which is not in favour of the points you are in favour of in the area of abortion and that sort of thing, which is not imposed on the others, there is a state-of-the-art system of correction in the judiciary, which allows for alternance majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u105	Thank you. Mrs Oomen, another brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u106	Sure, short. Is it true, I ask Mr Backer, that Europe is not about how we have abortion legislation and how we have divorce legislation? That is not Europe's concern. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u107	Yeah, sure. But, Mr President, may I add that these subjects always have their overall assessment of human rights? There is that review.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u108	Now Mr Van Dijk feels challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u109	Yes, because you can't say one thing and the other. You initially gave my colleague Oomen a clear answer. You are now taking that back with one stroke: yes, but if human rights are at stake... especially when we are going to define abortion as a human right, Europe is also talking about abortion at once. Yeah, I'd like a few more. What diversity is left in Europe? What does D66 have in mind? I can see my colleague, Mr Dittrich, startling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u110	And that's brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u111	Mr. Chairman. I don't think we should pursue that debate here right now. I do not think I am going to convince Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u112	You're gonna wrap up, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u113	I'd like to finish when that opportunity comes. I was with the artist. I believe that Mr Van Dijk's thoughts were aroused by the different values. I wanted to say that the peoples and values are not blocked by borders and that we should not be a playing field. The point is that we tell that story, that we are a value community and that we have to act in it, tell it in our own country and show that behaviour. That's important. I was pleased to hear a number of comments from Mr Van Ballekom. I can see that the VVD is thinking in that direction, too. That sounds like profit to me. Because one of the greatest challenges in democracy in the coming decades is to reconcile citizens in our country with the idea of that scale increase and that there is legislation, governance and justice in Europe because there are cross-border ambitions such as climate, Green Deal and migration. Mr Van Ballekom mentioned just now the case of the lignite mine, where the Czech Republic needed the European Court to call its neighbour to order, hopefully. In my view, this raises a point where there are differences of opinion. I think it's a point we need to talk about long and often. To scale up does not affect loss, but to regain control in certain areas where otherwise we cannot come up with a national, regional or urban democracy. That's because we're not effective on that scale. That requires a change of perspective. In a way, the work of art invites us to do so. It's also really a paradigm change I'd like to name. Mr. Chairman. It's about that behavior, that exemplary behavior and that discourse. I just said "incipit bellum," but the violence can also arise in a different way from bad or absent justice. It can also be caused by nationalism, racism and intolerance. Let us, as European parliamentarians, work together with the government to ensure that this does not escalate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm curious about the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I now give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to welcome both ministers. I wish both of them every success in their work in their new functions. Mr. Chairman. Today is the debate on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in the European Union, and therefore also in the Netherlands. It is a debate that can be on many topics. I will confine myself to four specific issues. Before I do that, I would like to start by thinking about the concept of the democratic rule of law. In the Netherlands, we usually speak of the democratic rule of law as if it were a single concept, but it is conceptually two completely different concepts between which tension can exist, including at European level: democracy and the rule of law. Mr Van Dijk has already referred to this. Those concepts are, if it is right, always connected. The American political philosopher Judith Shklar speaks in this connection of "a monogamous, faithful and permanent marriage between the two concepts, even though it is a marriage of convenience." In the Netherlands Ernst Hirsch Ballin said that the two are not available individually. And so it is. We're not there yet. Even though they're connected, one can dominate the other. That's what happens sometimes. In one country the independent position of the judiciary is under pressure and in the other it is precisely the position of the elected parliament that is weak. In authoritarianly guided countries, there is usually both. That is why we must not only look at the independence of the judiciary in a particular country, but also at the electoral pillar of the democratic rule of law. How open are elections organised? How strong is parliament in relation to the government? In particular, in many countries, including the Netherlands, there is a trend towards an increasingly strong government position. This process of governmentalisation led a few years ago in Germany to the observation there of a process of deparliamentaryisation. In the Netherlands, we are currently talking about the need for a different administrative culture, in which the supervisory role of parliament must also be strengthened. Mr. Chairman. Recent reports, including those of the think tank IDEA in Stockholm, show that there is currently a worldwide democratic backslide, including in some established democracies. Three of the ten countries with the largest decline in the last decade are located in the European Union, according to IDEA: Poland, Hungary and Slovenia. In English, the democratic rule of law is usually translated into "liberal democracy." Prime Minister Orbán of Hungary He has often been called "Illiberal Democracy', a non-liberal democracy, is proud to call his country "Illiberal Democracy'. That is actually a non-legal democracy. It is clear that the EU has a major problem when it says it wants to be a value community. There is talk of a rule of law crisis in the European Union in English. This brings me to the first specific issue I would like to discuss with the government. How credible is the European Union as a value community when governments of some Member States consciously ignore the values of Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union? And what is there to do about this by the Dutch Government? If countries wish to become members of the European Union, they will be tested to see whether they can meet the Copenhagen criteria, which have been mentioned before. However, there is no means of removing these basic conditions from the Union after accession. The Union does have a number of instruments that could lead to sanctions, but their use is difficult. The Article 7 procedure, I would also like to mention, is specifically aimed at respecting the values of Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union by Member States and, although it was used against Poland and Hungary respectively in 2017 and 2018, it is still limited to the preventive mechanism of paragraph 1. That doesn't make much sense. The sanction mechanism provided for in Article 7 (2) has never been applied. Because of the unanimity requirement and the fact that Hungary and Poland support each other as fellow travelers, this will not happen soon either. If the government agrees with this observation, I ask the Foreign Minister. Fortunately, the last few years, albeit slowly, have improved somewhat. For two years, the European Commission has produced an annual report on the rule of law. Now there will be country-specific recommendations. But will the government commit itself at the European Council to link these recommendations to a mechanism that will ensure that they are implemented? In 2020, the more frequently mentioned rule of law mechanism of budget conditionality was decided. My spelling rector took that word. However, the European Commission is dreading its activation and is now awaiting a ruling from the European Court. She doesn't have to wait for that at all. Is the government prepared to urge the Commission to activate this mechanism as soon as possible? It could then seek membership of the German Government, which explicitly states in its coalition agreement that it wants to use the current instruments of the rule of law more firmly and more quickly. But even when the budget conditionality would be activated, the question remains whether the fellow traveler veto will work in vain here too. Remains about the long-standing instrument of the infringement procedure, the infringement procedure, on the basis of Articles 258 to 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. There is no unanimity requirement. Last autumn, the European Commission decided to give fines to Poland for ignoring two judgments of the Court of Justice. Finally, Poland seems to be moving something about the brown coal mine in Turow and the controversial judicial disciplinary chamber. The fines of €500,000 and 1 million per day apparently did not act as a deterrent. In particular, it was the European Parliament's forced refusal by the European Commission to pay payments from the Corona Restoration Fund that put pressure on it. Poland receives some 12 billion net European funds each year. Therefore, if the government considers the level of fines to be effective, I ask the Foreign Minister. But there is more going on, except in Poland, including in countries such as Hungary and Slovenia. That is why I also ask the Minister whether the government is prepared to examine the possibility of increasing the efficiency of infringement procedures in the legal field by introducing so-called systemic infringement actions. That's one way to get out of the impasse. The idea of systemic insertion actions is derived from the Yearbook of European Law 2020 and includes the following briefly. Where a Member State repeatedly violates the values set out in Article 2 of the Union Treaty, that pattern of infringements may be referred by the European Commission or by a Member State to the European Court of Justice. If the Court indeed finds that pattern of infringements, fines may be imposed which are deducted from subsidies, without the requirement of unanimity being prevented. The coalition agreement says that Member States that violate shared values, agreements or the democratic rule of law are flagged back, including through the rule of law mechanism. Systematic infringement actions - that is the proposal from which Yearbook... would fit very well with that. Tactical and practical, I'd like to say. I therefore ask whether the government is prepared to investigate the introduction of systemic infringement actions and to inform the Court of Justice of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mr Koole talks about the two pillars. He's the author of a book about it. I recommend that you do, by the way. Of course, this democratic pillar is lacking. We agree on that. But my question is mainly about the issue of the financial infringement. That has not actually come up this morning. This is very often about fundamental rights, including in Mr Van Dijk's interruptions. But in those countries where there is no rule of law, there is also, of course, large-scale corruption, and money goes into the pockets of people who do not make calls for tenders. The right to tender is not respected there. There is therefore a clear link with the financial side of the use of the rule of law mechanism. Could you comment on that in connection with the systemic infringement procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u117	The problem of corruption is, of course, very big. The rule of law mechanism, as introduced in 2020, says that it could perhaps be taken into account if there is a link, if corruption would lead to incorrect implementation of the budget. If you take that widely, you could see it as a violation of the rule of law. Corruption is part of that. But as I said, even if you did, unanimity is ultimately required. What I am looking for now, and with my fellow Members, as it turned out this morning, is a way of ensuring that this rule of law mechanism, the way you deal with the rule of law, gets more teeth in Europe. Then you could do something about countries that systematically commit themselves to the word "systemic" in that concept of "systemic" in breach of the values set out in Article 2. You should be able to do something about that, without encountering what I call the fellow traveler veto of those two countries that support each other on a permanent basis. That idea isn't mine. It's from the European Yearbook. So I ask the government to take a serious look at that, to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u118	I would like to continue with this because these are words that have been taken from my heart. Does Mr Koole agree with me that this should also be inextricably linked to, for example, new own resources, which we will soon have to discuss again, to the admission of new Member States, which are being discussed, or to the change in the powers of the European Union? As you know, the European Union is not considered decisive enough in many areas of foreign policy, defence policy and defence policy. In order to change that, we need to change the Treaty. I think that's one of the consequences. But my specific question to Mr Koole is: do you want to make one dependent on another? As long as there is no functioning mechanism, can there be no enlargement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u119	That in itself is two separate discussions. Now there are already the Copenhagen criteria, which apply to the review. In the event of an extension, they shall apply. Those countries simply have to comply with that. But the problem is, of course, what you do once they're admitted. That's why you're looking for something with teeth. That is the proposal of this systemic infringement procedure, which, according to the proposers, does not meet a requirement of unanimity. That would be interesting, and I would ask the government to investigate that. If that were to work, it would link a systematic violation of the constitutional values with a reduction in the budget of certain funds, just like the budgetary conditionality envisaged. Which funds exactly are these, you can still capture. In any case, it will have financial consequences for those Member States that are guilty of it. That has to do with each other. The Copenhagen criteria apply to accession, without doubt, but what do you do once they are accepted? The art is to keep it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u120	That is a wonderful answer, but let me rephrase my question. Do you personally, or as a Labour Party, not think that first your own house should be in order, so that Article 7 has the hands and feet of state before you allow new guests?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u121	No, I don't. I think you should do that in parallel. That's a negotiation process. We have also been talking to certain countries for a long time. Those countries must meet the criteria. The countries that do not meet the criteria and are already members have slipped back, as it is called. You have to do everything you can. So it is not possible for other countries that may meet the criteria to be punished by not being allowed to do so, because sitting members are no longer able to do so. I'd say you have to have a parallel trajectory where you work on both fronts. I think that's the way, not making one dependent on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u122	Finally, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u123	I would advise you to read the Court of Auditors' report in this area. I think it is very naive to assume that you are allowing new Member States and that you can add additional powers to the legal protection and legal principles article, Article 7. I don't think that's gonna work. And then we are even further away from home with a larger Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u124	I am not talking about adding additional powers to the article. I am talking about systematic infringement procedures which are not based on Article 7 but on other articles. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second issue. It has recently been raised by the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs on human rights violations at the external borders of the European Union. No one has put the poignant situation there as poignant as the Swedish-Syrian poet Ghayath Almadhoun in his award-winning film poem Évian. I'm not gonna try to approach that. Anyone who doesn't know this poem yet, I suggest you listen to this and watch it. The Advisory Committee also talks about inhuman situations in reception camps, pushbacks and militarisation of refugees. The government will agree with the PvdA Group that these are distressing situations. But conviction isn't enough. The government can do more and must do more, says the Consultative Commission, because the European borders are also our borders. My question is therefore: is the government prepared to accept the recommendations of the advisory committee? When some time back in the border area between Poland and Belarus people were pushed back and forth in harsh winter conditions, the government rightly condemned the cynical policy of dictator Lukashenko of Belarus. But it remained remarkably quiet with regard to the Polish Government. Poland had the right to protect its external borders, yes, but this must be done within the framework of international treaties, as the coalition agreement also says. Did the Polish Government not have a duty there too, I ask the Minister, to properly receive the refugees who managed to reach Polish territory and to give them the possibility of an asylum procedure? Can the Minister explain the current state of play with regard to the European Commission's intention to grant temporary waivers to Lithuania, Latvia and Poland in order to comply with European asylum rules? Does such a temporary exemption not set a precedent in other policy areas? Can the government promise that it will do everything it can to prevent such a temporary exception, which in itself is undesirable, from being converted into a semi-permanent arrangement? A new migration pact, which the French Presidency is now committed to, can help in this. Can the government indicate that the Dutch commitment to this migration pact is mainly aimed at the distribution of asylum seekers between Member States and not just at buying off European solidarity by sending money to the southern Member States? Mr. Chairman. The third issue concerns independent journalism, which is under increasing pressure from the present governments in more and more countries within the European Union. Here again Poland, Hungary and Slovenia. But also in other Member States, developments are going in the wrong direction. For the sake of short, we would like to support the plea for a special envoy from the European Council, as put forward by Mr Karimi. My question to the government is what opportunities it also sees to prevent, within the framework of the European Union, further pressure from being placed on the position of independent journalism in countries of the European Union. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few comments on the situation in the Netherlands. The child allowance affair has shown that we too have the necessary work to do to maintain the democratic rule of law. At the same time, I do not want to align the problems in our country with those in countries such as Poland and Hungary. Unlike in these countries, the position of the judiciary is fortunately not systematically affected by our government. In fact, the reflex seems to be rather to seek the solution in case of problems in strengthening the power of independent institutions. This raises the question of whether this does not weaken the relative position of the electoral pillar, particularly that of the parliament within it. The coalition agreement says that both independent supervision and democratic control of the executive power must be strengthened, but there may be tension between them. I'd like a reflection from the Home Secretary on this. For example, the coalition agreement says that the law includes hardness clauses. In every law, I ask the Minister. Does this mean a strengthening of the executive over the legislative power? How can we argue elsewhere the importance of the rule of law if we were to include here in every law that the government, although subject to conditions, may depart from the law? Is this deviation always limited to unforeseen injustices of a general nature or is it understood to be broader? And can the Minister explain why the coalition agreement says that the elaboration of the constitutional review will be undertaken, while the previous cabinet, in the same composition, had already put aside the opinion of the State Committee on this subject, arguing that it would like to avoid as much as possible a distortion of the balance between legislative and judicial power? What's changed now? Fortunately, the coalition agreement also states that the position of the House of Representatives will be strengthened. Why not the one from the First Chamber? It also states that there should be a clearer separation between the Chamber and the Cabinet. But how, I ask the Minister, does this aim relate to the absolute rule of trust, which presupposes a certain degree of confidence with the majority in the House of Representatives in particular? Finally, the democratic rule of law is a great asset, which is never an achievement, but needs permanent maintenance. This includes a high degree of political integrity of the politicians and the parties themselves. In last week's main letter, the Minister mentions this as one of the six overarching themes of her mission as a minister. In addition to the integrity policy mentioned here for directors, does she also have a role to play in promoting the integrity of parliamentarians and parties, although they are, of course, primarily responsible for this? If so, what role? We look forward to the response of the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mr Koole. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate our esteemed former colleague senator on his new ministry. It proves once again that this chambre de réflexion does not have to be a final stop, but rather a breeding room of leadership of international allure. And perhaps it is because of the impressive posture of Minister Hoekstra that I automatically thought of an anecdote around his distant predecessor at this ministry, the well-known Minister Joseph Luns of the KVP, who was also an imposing appearance. He was five feet tall, but I think Minister Hoekstra still wins it in that field. Luns visited the Soviet Union in early 1964, the heart of the Cold War, where he spoke with Prime Minister Nikita Khrushchev. At their meeting Khrushchev remarked: "I can see that you are from a waterland, when I see how everything can grow to great heights." Luns responded by saying: "Yes, you need that length in our small, low land to stay above water." It could be that this Dutch-Russian anecdote repeats itself, given the current turbulence in the East. I also wish this Minister a great deal of insignificance in his international contacts and, above all, God's blessing in this responsible role on the world stage. Of course, I wish that same generous blessing to the Minister of State. Mr. Chairman. When discussing the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in the EU, we must first of all define these concepts clearly. I note the following. An orderly debate on the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in the EU will have to start in the primacy of the Member States. They are, according to the Treaties, the High Contracting Parties that together establish a European Union. They establish the rule of law, including democratic accountability and respect for rights. This is not semantics, but it is essential for a good view of the EU. The EU is based on sovereign Member States and not the other way around. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the definitions. The website on the Dutch Constitution describes it as follows: "The rule of law is a state in which the mutual rights and obligations of citizens and government are laid down in laws. This is based as much as possible on citizens' own responsibilities to organise their own lives, without harming others. State power is limited by safeguards against abuse of power." Three well-known concrete features are then mentioned: separation and balance between legislative, executive and judicial powers, fundamental fundamental rights for residents and the principle of legality of public representation and obedience to legal powers and frameworks. The concept of the rule of law appears five times in the Treaty on European Union: twice in the preamble, then in Article 2 as the value on which the Union rests, and finally twice in Article 21 on the EU's external action. In addition, Articles 9 to 12 describe how the EU can be democratically controlled and legitimised. This brings me to a critical note about the debate we often have in the Netherlands on the rule of law and democracy in the EU. This debate is not always pure and sometimes one-sided. Firstly, with regard to the impure, no clear definitions are used. Criticism of formal characteristics of the rule of law, such as the separation of powers, and more subjective material values often run across each other. I am thinking of condemning resolutions by the European Parliament on the abortion policy of Eastern European countries. But also in its critical reports on Poland and Hungary, the European Commission makes no secret that the criticism is not only about independent justice, but also about the lhbti policy pursued by these countries. So my first appeal to this minister is to promote a pure discussion in the EU. Make a consistent distinction between standard and value, between objective and subjective views on the state of law. I'd like a response. Secondly, the debate on the rule of law and democracy in the EU is often one-sided. It has, I think, at least three dimensions. Firstly, a select group of Member States often suffer severe criticism, while in each Member State, including our own, cases often go wrong in the legal field. Moreover, there are quite different traditions of the rule of law in the Member States. I cannot escape the impression that this one-sidedness is linked to the very strong fixation on, among other things, abortion policy, but also on gender and Ihbti rights. Yes, human rights really matter, but there are different insights about some rights, such as gay marriage or adoption by gay couples, also based on democratic decision-making processes. Does the Minister share this analysis and does the Minister agree that the EU should not actually push through a certain liberal secular morality in countries that think fundamentally differently about the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u127	Mr Van Dijk talks about the one-sidedness of the debate. In one breath, he mentions the different countries. Does he agree with the remark I just made that you can really distinguish between the countries where governments trample on the rule of law by, for example, calling into question the independence of the judiciary and countries where everything goes wrong, but where, as soon as that is established, the government also does everything to restore it, such as the Netherlands? This does not mean that these countries are free from problems, but there is a fundamental distinction between countries where liberal governments are undermining the institutions and countries which, in the event of mistakes in the system, though gross errors, do everything in their power to restore them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u128	I think that is an understandable interruption, and the sentences that Mr Koole has just said about this are also in my mind. Of course, it is not my intention to put everything on the same footing and to say 'everywhere there is something' or 'there this happens and there it is'. The point of my contribution is above all: respect the individuality and tradition of countries such as Poland and Hungary. It's pretty complicated, even if you take their past with you. I'm just asking for a little respect and understanding. At the same time, I'm also pretty shocked by what's come up around that supplemental affair. Maybe we think, I think, sometimes a little too well about our own government, about the way we set it up. It's not always easy to get justice. But I agree with you: when it comes to regimes in countries where corruption thrives or goes around, it is fortunately of a different order than we know in the Netherlands. So it is good to look at that with distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u129	Tiert.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u130	I welcome the answer that it is of a different order. There can really be a distinction between fundamental problems and other problems which in any case are not caused by the government. If that is the case, the government will do everything in its power to rectify it. This is different from countries where the government systematically undermines the institutions. We live in a Europe that is a unity in diversity. Mr Van Dijk will appreciate that in his own right. But with that unity, you do adhere to the treaties and the values that have been laid down in them. See, inter alia, Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Once you've joined, you're supposed to stick to that. I hope Mr Van Dijk agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u131	Yes, and at the same time, as has been changed through interruptions, I also find it very complicated. It is true: when you join the EU, you sign up to the rules of the game. But countries like Poland and Hungary did not say with that signature: okay, now we are laying down our family policy and how we deal with a gay marriage and all these sensitive issues. I know they are sensitive. No, those countries have different ideas about that. They may have great difficulty with, for example, adoption by gay couples. My appeal is to respect that tradition, too. That line should be there, too. If that is achieved by democratic means, who are we to brusque it from Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u132	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u133	However, Mr Van Dijk says that he agrees with the statement that once treaties signed by Member States, including the standards and values contained therein, must be respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u134	Yes, that's true, but once again, very specific. I am thinking of resolutions by the European Parliament, which, as it were, denigrate the practice of abortion in those Eastern European countries. There I say: sorry EU, you are really going beyond your own powers and territory; that is just up to the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u135	I think you are referring to resolutions of the Council of Europe Assembly. That's soft law. Something's assuming, but that doesn't apply. I am talking about treaties with the signature of the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u136	Yeah, once. But I am thinking of criminal proceedings against Poland when it comes to Ihbti rights and so on. These Ihbti rights are not EU competence. I would like to be very keen on that. These countries have their own tradition and their own line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u137	I would like to comment on this point: in my view, the Ihbti rights are indeed subject to respect for diversity, for example under Article 2. There is also a basis for this in the EU. I would like to return to the point made earlier by Mr Van Dijk about human rights and his plea for diversity within the EU. We can wholeheartedly endorse that. We respect diversity, but within the limits of the democratic rule of law and human rights. And then we have the EU, the Council of Europe, the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and the European Convention on Human Rights. Is Mr Van Dijk, is the SGP Group, pleased with me that we also have that kind of protection of human rights and its enforceability and their feasibility in Europe through the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u138	Yes, but here too, the EU has to recognise its borders in this area. Let us just mention the example of Hungary, which was very much mentioned. They want, as they put it, to combat sexual propaganda among minors, based on the idea that it is primarily to parents and not to third parties. Now that about the link of freedom of the press is banned from the EU. I'm pleading for space here. However you think about Hungary's views in this area, Hungary needs to be given room for manoeuvre in terms of the responsibility they want to assign to parents. In my opinion, that space was really not given away when it joined Brussels, the EU. As far as I'm concerned, rules are changing during the game. At least that's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u139	In the case of the examples mentioned by Mr Van Dijk, I believe that the European Commission has started an intergroup procedure for a reason. Let us wait and see what comes out of it, even when it comes to discriminatory treatment of immigrants in Poland and Hungary. I would like to return to the issue of abortion legislation in Poland. Mr Van Dijk is always talking about the EU. Is Mr Van Dijk aware of the fact that, in my opinion, more than 1,000 Polish women have now brought a case before the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg? Shouldn't we just let justice be? Perhaps in this case it is not for the EU to agree. If the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg considers that Polish abortion legislation is contrary to human rights, so if the judge has spoken and if that is the outcome of the legal process, then I think we should just accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u140	I get it. At the same time, I would think it would be profitable if we all felt this as tension. I am very much in favour of the rule of law and I do not want anyone to be discriminated against, but if a country wants to keep certain legislation in the air to protect unborn life and therefore, in my view, the interests of women, you can find all kinds of things, but it does not matter very much what I think of it or what the EU thinks of it. This is typically a matter of national competence. I refer to abortion legislation, family policy and so on. I would warn that the link of human rights is now being raked in all those areas where we said it was not up to the EU to do so. Actually, my warning and my call is not to do that. In that sense, let us give room for that mosaic, as was just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u141	The question is, how far does that space go? That space is limited by the fact that you are part of a value community like the EU. Is that right or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u142	Yes. Only, you can talk very general about rights, but what does that mean? Is Poland only going to be able to take advantage of the fact that women are able to stop pregnancy for up to 24 weeks? Aren't they discriminatory? We are not going to determine the interpretation of these rights from Brussels, let alone from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u143	No, but what can be determined from Brussels is that Poland and Hungary are members of the EU. Is it democratic? Is it open? Is there enough freedom? Is there enough protection? I would simply like to hear from Mr Van Dijk that it is unacceptable for you to organise lhbti-free neighbourhoods in a country that claims to be a member of the European Union. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely you cannot say that certain minorities are not allowed in an area. That's unacceptable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u144	You know, I wanted to stay away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u145	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u146	I'm not the lawyer for the Polish system or the Hungarian system. No, that's just not the issue. You pretend there are areas where gays aren't allowed, but that's bullshit. They want to counter propaganda there that undermines traditional family morals. You can find all sorts of things, but that is the sovereignty of those Member States, isn't it? We do not want to invest and determine that from Brussels, do we? That's the issue. How much room is there for a different morale within the EU? Should everything ultimately fall under the secular morality that is currently common in Europe or not? That's the whole question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u147	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u148	Finally, Mr President. It is about whether the freedom of morality clashes with certain values that you have as a member of the European Union. Think also of universally applicable human rights. These are the clashes between the secular values of the Union and the Polish non-secular values on anti-discrimination principles. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u149	Yes. Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u150	Brussels must, of course, stand up for anti-discrimination and not allow it. The question is, is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u151	No, I certainly won't just say that's true. So, very precisely, it's a central tension field. If we combine everything with human rights, anti-discrimination and everything else, then we say in one breath that we are sweeping in all those areas that I have just mentioned about family, marriage, sexuality and everything. We have always said in all these areas that it is clearly not up to the EU. I see this as a fundamental change in the area that the EU is about. I am certainly not in favour of rolling such a blanket across Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u152	You continue your argument, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u153	Good. I was at the second dimension. The EU itself often remains out of the loop in the discussions. I have already mentioned the characteristic of a democratic rule of law. It is based as much as possible on citizens' own responsibilities to organise their own lives. I ask the Minister: how does this self-reliance relate to the growing flow of EU proposals? Does he take the principle of subsidiarity seriously when assessing Commission proposals? The third aspect is that state power is limited by safeguards against abuse of power. The government bases all of its actions on powers conferred upon it by the law. What does the Minister think in this light that the EU often seeks, extends or even exceeds the limits of its powers? Does he agree with the ruling of former Professor of State Law Teunissen that the Court of Justice, by not always preventing the EU from exceeding its powers, is actually acting as a co-legislator? In other words, does the EU itself not place great pressure on fundamental constitutional aspects? I would like to conclude with a specific issue, which I believe we have also discussed by means of interruptions. This is the recognition of abortion as a human right as a follow-up to the Matić report, which was adopted by the European Parliament last year. Can I trust this minister not to cooperate in this? Does the Minister agree with me that if something is a human right that should also be defended in and through the EU, it is the right to life and certainly not the right to kill human life? How deep can we sink? A community, whether at European, national or other level, which deliberately and deliberately anchors the killing of defenseless, innocent lives as a fundamental right, has no future. For God's sake, let us remain a human Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u154	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr Van Rooijen, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u155	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Foreign and Home Affairs Ministers to this temporary home. Mr. Chairman. The second annual report on the rule of law in the European Union is interesting. The Netherlands comes out pretty well. I didn't expect much else either. Of course, things are happening here too that are sanding with the rule of law. We have far from finished the supplementing affair and the problem of the capital efficiency levy has now been clearly discussed by the High Council, including in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights and the EU Charter Article 17: property rights. Fortunately, however, the Netherlands also has a vibrant democracy, where these issues can be discussed publicly. That too is an element of a functioning rule of law. In view of the time available, I would now like to concentrate on one specific point which is not really given much attention in the European Union's report, but which is becoming more and more visible in the Netherlands. That is the quality of the legislation or, rather, the lack of it. That too is an element of a proper and well-functioning rule of law. Increasingly, environmental organisations in particular are gaining in court cases up to the Supreme Court, with potentially huge implications for the state budget and for companies. Last week's report came in that the D.A.'s office is opening a case against Tata Steel. This could lead to this company closing its doors. In entrepreneurial countries, there are more and more ideas to settle elsewhere. What matters to me is not the question of who is right. The 50PLUS group is concerned that too many laws apparently contain so many holes or other errors that they do not stand up in court. Our rule of law is at risk because this important building is using inadequate material. The 50PLUS Group sees three reasons for this. The first cause is craftsmanship. Apparently, craftsmanship is not on purpose "the function" of legislative lawyer too little priority. This is really about high-quality legal excellence, based on knowledge, insight, systematic and meticulousness. This is true of the text of a legislative proposal, and I am looking at the administrative apparatus and the Council of State, and at the amendment, in which I look at the States-General, and in particular the House of Representatives. Secondly, the poor quality of legislation is linked to compromises which may be politically understandable, but which are legal ramblings. I look above all at ourselves, at the Cabinet and the Chambers, as legislative power. In particular, the removal of problems to the future has led to the denial of reality in environmental and climate legislation. Tax legislation usually involves complexity, implementation and detection. The third reason is that, unfortunately, opinions from the Council of State are too often not taken seriously. Objections, also of a legal nature, are too often played down by the cabinet, while then neither the Lower House nor the Upper Chamber do anything with them. They use the point for political reasons at most, not the argument of legislative quality. I regret this remark, particularly in this House, that its right to exist is also derived from the explicit legal channels of legislation. It seems that too often it is thought that when a political compromise has been reached, a subject can be dealt with again for a while. Especially when it comes to legislation on which there are very divided views, there seems to be a legislative strut around it under the motto: that's it. They say we'll see it by the time it gets back on the agenda. But Kees isn't ready at all. It seems that the jug of the judiciary has been in the water for so long that it has burst. Mr. Chairman. You get the suspicion that a "up to here and no further" seems to be agreed within the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he sees it. It seems that the third power of the trias politician has decided no longer to tolerate the tampering of the other two, but to confront the legislative and executive power with the iron consequences of the blundering, the ease and opportunism in the legislation. The government gets its tricks at home. If there is indeed coordination for this purpose, I would urge the Minister to do so. It would be a logical and natural reaction of the third power. But do the first and second powers want to be called to order in this way? Is this corrective approach a quality of the rule of law or is it an emergency brake? This ruling doesn't cause more damage than it solves anything? Is the government willing to take responsibility? In any case, it has been revealed that recent legislation contains ticking time bombs. 50PLUS asks the government how it sees this problem. My group also calls for an in-depth examination of the legislation that is appropriate for this purpose. I am referring to a task force of at least a dozen top lawyers, which makes an urgent list of legislation to be repaired. I've got that list in my pocket. Subsequently, in a public exchange of views with the Council of State, the State General and the judiciary, the government should come to a resolution that does not cause unnecessary damage in terms of claims, compensation or financial redemption. I'd like your opinion on this. Mr. Chairman. The stakes are high. On the one hand, therefore, there is the rule of law under serious pressure. In the case of the premium affair, we see abuse of power by an overasked Tax Administration on the basis of a lack of stable regulation, including with regard to sanctioning. At the same time, the financial lock is being opened up so far that there is a serious risk of frivolously rewarding false information, also by an already oversolicited service. Mr. Chairman. I cannot say urgently enough: quality legislation is more necessary than ever before, and we still, I fear, deal with it stepmotherly. For the sake of the rule of law and for the sake of our prosperity and economy, I call for a clear attitude from you and from the entire cabinet. I'm going to listen carefully to your answer. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the relationship between the European Union and Russia and Ukraine today. Yesterday very topical: Scholz was with Biden and Macron was with Putin for six hours. My first question is about the geopolitical views of the minister and the cabinet and about the role of the European Union. Sometimes you have the impression that the European Union has been mainly self-employed since its inception, but the world is much bigger. Luns once said: 'We have a very large foreign country', Mr Van Dijk. The world is a lot bigger. Moreover, very important signs are and are being hung in the world. China, Russia, the Middle East, Africa, refugees, the climate, covid; when I see how insignificant Europe's position is becoming between all these great movements of our time, the fear is killing us. All these problems require international coordination and cooperation. If I see just how long it will take for Europe to have a single position on each of these issues, think about Russia-Ukraine, how much influence do we still have? What power does Europe have, other than gradually becoming a closing point? Mr. Chairman. I come to the current issue of the EU's relationship with Russia and Ukraine. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister what his impressions were on his recent visit to Kiev. What did the Netherlands say, what did our allies say? What did the government in Kiev let us know? What appointments have been made? I would then like to go into more detail about the development in Europe since the fall of European communism. Why has Europe not succeeded since the fall of the Wall to begin integrating Russia throughout Europe? Why is there not yet a curtain of iron between Russia, Belarus and the rest of Europe? What on earth are the interests of Eastern and Western Europe in terms of economic divisions and possibly even the battlefield of a new war? Yes, I also know that in Russia, democratic principles are clearly behind ours. I know that there are great differences in many areas. But surely both sides have a much greater interest in intertwinedness than in distance? Because of Ukraine, we are now facing threats on both sides. Who's gonna get better? Of course, I am not an admirer of the total elements of China, but the country shows every day, even these weeks at the games, that operating as a unit brings more success than being primarily engaged in baffling each other. I ask the Minister for his position on this, not only in fine words, but also how and if the government is considering a more inviting than confrontational policy towards Russia. I look very critically at President Putin's regime, but I also remember yesterday 1989 and shortly afterwards. I remember the devastation of Russian society after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the search for democracy with a shortage of wise statesmen after three quarters of a century totalitarian rule. Our deep distrust of communism and the Cold War prevented us from taking truly fundamental steps towards normal relations. Some agreements were made at the time, but they have gradually lost all meaning. Stilan, both sides wanted to see evidence of the accuracy of the prejudices towards each other. How does the Minister see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u156	Maybe a bit of a point of order. There was some discussion this morning about what is or is not part of this debate. As far as I am concerned, the situation with regard to the rule of law is part of it. Mr Van Rooijen is making a very interesting speech about Russia and China, on which I would have anything to say, but I think it is really out of the order of this debate. That is what you are talking about, Mr President, but our time is limited and I wanted to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u157	The Netherlands belongs to the European Union and the European Union stands for a central moment of choice: how do we deal with the peace and security of Europe and the Netherlands for so long after the Second World War and the fall of communism and the threat that is now taking place in the world? That affects 17 million Dutch people and that is what I am talking about today. I think we all want to live in the Netherlands in peace and security. That is why I am also touching on the elderly in our population, including myself, who have been through World War II. We don't want to go back there. Peace and security in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u158	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u159	Mr. Chairman. I recommend that the Minister make a large lunch appointment with the Flemish professor Jonathan Holslag. It shows more understanding and wisdom about international relations every ten minutes than the entire European Union in a whole year. I refer to his book Peace and War; a whole pill. Mr. Chairman. I certainly don't want to be naive. International politics is not gentle and is not for wappies. You don't negotiate from pious wishes, you negotiate from power. You must have an interest in the other and the other with you. The art is then to determine a price that both can come home with; at home, where all prejudices towards the other apply. No, I certainly don't underestimate it. I am therefore primarily concerned here, Mr Van Apeldoorn, about our own interest, the importance of the Netherlands in the European Union. This is our continent. Then I think that our interests are more congruent with Russia's interests than we realize, not only because of the refugee issue, but also because of the gas, as we see every day today, and also because we are not seeing another devastating battlefield in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u160	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u161	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Not from the negative, but from the positive. Germany presents us with a nuanced approach to Russia, with more than mere distrust. Finally, Mr President. In the meantime, we're in a very brittle situation. In the circumstances, a cocktail of military determination plus in conversation remains most obvious to create opportunities for de-escalation. Is that how the Minister sees it? In particular, will the Minister confirm that a policy aimed at integration rather than segregation should be followed afterwards? I await the answers of the two ministers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u162	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u163	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to welcome the ministers. We don't know the Minister of the Interior yet. I wish her a very good period and also good debates with our Chamber. And, of course, I welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs once again. Mr. Chairman. The world we live in is getting smaller at a raging rate. A bat on a market in China will turn the whole world and the world economy upside down in a few months. The corona crisis has taught us a great deal, also that the great dependence of the European economy on products from other parts of the world makes our economy very vulnerable. For my group, it has become even clearer that the European Union is currently the right scale to live resiliently and more or less independently in Europe. The countries of the European Union need each other. The ideal of the European Union, enshrined in the Treaty, is to be a value community. Accessions to the Union are subject to requirements in the area of national rule of law and democracy. A common basis with shared values is a prerequisite for a well-functioning Union. The free movement of goods and people, the ability to increase together in the area of climate and a common migration policy require that countries have the same overall principles. This is not only necessary in order to be able to work effectively together. It is also above all a choice of conviction. The EU opts for the democratic rule of law, because with such a legal form, residents have the best protection against arbitrariness and abuse of power. The fight for the rule of law within Europe is for the citizens of Europe. They are the losers if the rule of law is not respected. This leads to the question of how democratic and transparent the functioning of the Union itself is. As the EU takes on more tasks, or sees its tasks expanded, and gives it more left-wing or right-wing control, it becomes increasingly important that decision-making within the Union is clear and transparent. It is important that it is clear which arguments are decisive, which actors play a role and what is the balance of power under which decisions are taken. In this area, there are still many uncertainties and things are developing. The Utrecht University report that was included in the documents was very instructive. The previous cabinet responded to the report with an extensive appreciation. It is too far-reaching to go into this in detail, but let me just say that my group finds it very valuable that the legal status of the EU itself is also laid down along the trias politician's measuring bar and the checks-and-balances. How does the Minister see this? This is all the more important because the EU is a project where much remains to crystallise. It's a permanent metamorphosis. The adage "by doing one learns" also applies here. My group therefore welcomed the Conference on the Future of Europe. It is a discussion with the citizens of Europe about how they see the future of the Union. Unfortunately, we do have the impression that this conference will pass the Netherlands almost silently. The vast majority of Dutch citizens have missed this conference. Shouldn't the cabinet have brought more attention to that, that's my question. This conference already feels a bit like a missed opportunity. How does the Minister see this? The first results of the conference are now in place. There is already a call for more democracy and more transparency among the citizens who have participated. My group looks forward to the results and recommendations that will be made in May with the conclusion of the conference. Can the Minister comment on how the cabinet will deal with these recommendations that will follow from the conference? Can he, in particular, address the question of how the cabinet will inform citizens about the results and how it will involve them? I would particularly like to draw attention to the involvement of the European Youth Parliament. It is about the future and young people will have to and want to talk about it. Mr. Chairman. My group is very positive about the development of annual reports on the state of the rule of law in the Member States. We are of course pleased with the good report that the Netherlands has received, although there are also improvements in the Netherlands. These reports indicate the importance of the legal status of the Member States and give members the opportunity to discuss each other. From next year onwards, the reports will be supplemented by recommendations. This is a good development, for which the Netherlands has also made itself strong. Our question is: what will be the status of these recommendations? Are they enforceable, or only advisory? Can the Minister say anything about this and about the commitment of the Netherlands on this issue? Mr. Chairman. In a debate on the European rule of law, we cannot avoid Hungary and Poland. The Union has a number of possibilities to bring these countries to order, but the practice is more aggressive than it seems on paper. The decision under infringement proceedings is not complied with. It's just declared incompetent. Article 7 procedures lead to good discussions, but not a result for the time being. What remains are the new rule of law mechanism and agreements around the RRF. My group considers it unsatisfactory that in fact only financial pressure remains to encourage Member States to comply with the principles of the democratic rule of law. My group is struggling with this. And then there is the French Foreign Minister, the current President of Europe, who has announced that cutting aid to Poland is bad for the Union, because of the size of the Polish economy. How's the minister looking at this? Eventually, no means will be left and the financial penalty will prove to be blunt. Commissioner Didier recently announced in an interview that financial steps may not be taken by the Commission until after the Hungarian elections in early April. Whether the Commission will decide to do so is still unclear. In Hungary there are concerns about the honesty of the forthcoming elections. An illustration of the desirability of the democracy action plan addressed by Commissioner Jourová. The measures in the context of this plan are aimed at resilient, free elections. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the possible or impossible financial incentives, are there any other ways of improving the situation in Poland and Hungary? Among the EU's preventive instruments, the current MFF includes a fund aimed at strengthening the rule of law in the Member States. This is done by supporting civil society in projects on the rule of law. I assume that this support will also take place in Poland and Hungary. What are the effects of this? Is it useful, I hear an answer, but not in the microphone, to intensify this support in these countries, to make the population themselves more resilient to the erosion of their rule of law? How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. The question of whether we are capable of finally getting Poland and Hungary on the legal track is perhaps the biggest test for the sustainability of the European Union. Or do I see it too dark with this pronunciation? Does the Minister see this differently? I'd like a response. The corona crisis and climate change have led to more and more recognition of the value of the EU in parts of our society. At the same time, the EU is under pressure. The EU is under pressure with regard to the common values that are not respected by each country, as I outlined before. But the EU and our rule of law can also be put under pressure by the rise of populists and sceptics. They question the reliability of democratic processes and sometimes also the independence of elected representatives in their own country and in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u164	I just wanted to get back to what Mrs Huizinga said before this last piece. That is what I was tasting when she said: in the end, only those sanctions are left, and that is not really a good thing either. The French minister was mentioned. And she asks, "What is?" What would Mrs Huizinga think of the idea of a Europe of different speeds in the area of democratic rule of law, where countries that can move faster in this area are a leading group and perhaps, because they are a leading group, they can also be given additional resources; and countries that are still a little behind? Instead of sanctions, it is more of a bonus system. This was recently explained in a detailed article in the Volkskrant. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm bringing it in now, but you'd rather go to a bonus system instead of sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u165	This has also been mentioned as one of the possible outcomes of the conference on the future of Europe. This could come out as a possibility. I should think about that. At first, I deliberately asked the Minister an open question. How does the government see this? What possibilities does the government see? But if you ask me that way, I think that perhaps that is an opportunity to create a future for Europe, and not to get stuck in the impossibility of countries that do not want to comply with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u166	I assume that Mrs Huizinga may wish to pass that question on to the government. Otherwise, I will do so myself in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u167	Mr. Chairman. I was working on the emergence of populists and skeptics, people who doubt the reliability of the democratic process and sometimes also the independence of representatives of the people. Everyone is free to express their own views on the values of our rule of law and the European Union, but in this light, my group is deeply concerned that there are strong indications that, from Russia in particular, false information is deliberately disseminated within the EU. Think of rumor streams intended to create confusion and question democratic processes. How disruptive that can be for democracy, the storming of the American Capitol last year showed. In recent weeks, a special committee of the European Parliament, INGE, has already submitted an interim report on its one and a half-year investigation. They are surprised how few European policy makers and citizens are aware of this deliberate influence. They are "extremely ignorant" of the seriousness of the situation, they conclude. The Minister of the Interior may be able to comment on disinformation, which could pose a threat to our rule of law. Is this a focus for her? What opportunities or opportunities does it see for the Dutch Government to defend us against these attacks, which are mainly carried out through social media? These days, the Digital Services Act, the DSA, is being discussed in the EU, which is looking to address precisely this disinformation. The EP and the Council have taken a position. Can the Minister, one of the ministers or both indicate the position of the Netherlands? To what extent do they estimate that this law can address the problem of disinformation in Europe? Mr. Chairman. In my contribution, I have addressed the concerns of my group about the rule of law in Europe. My group welcomes the increasing attention being paid in Europe to the rule of law. Ultimately, the EU is not about Member States but about citizens, who must be able to live freely and in peace in Europe. I look forward to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga-Heringa. Mr Van Apeldoorn has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister always saw the EU as a union of market and currency: an organisation to earn a good living. Luckily, he's come back from that. For the SP Group, the EU must be less of a single market and single currency Europe and more of a Europe of democracy, of the rule of law and of social rights. If the European Union is not a value community, there is no basis for our far-reaching cooperation and integration at EU level. Although this process of unification has sometimes gone too far or gone in the wrong direction, we need the EU in a number of areas, provided that it is based on the democratic rule of law and social rights, which are anchored in equality and respect for human dignity. At Member State level, as well as at EU level, the current Union lacks too much and too often in compliance with these values. Does the Minister agree with us that this, if the democratic and constitutional concrete rot in the EU is not stopped, will eventually threaten the survival of the EU itself? In an EU based on the values of the democratic rule of law, there can be no place in the end for countries that systematically ignore those values, that destroy the independence of their own judiciary or their own media, or invent those lhbti-free zones. Yes, I am talking about Poland and Hungary, but there are more countries where the democratic rule of law, which is often not strongly rooted there, is deteriorating. I also mention Slovenia, for example. Does the Minister share our analysis that the crisis of the rule of law in the EU has only increased recently? What about the legal status of candidate countries, such as Albania? Does the Minister agree with us that the lesson to be learned from the major problems we have with Poland and Hungary and with other countries is also linked to the too rapid enlargement in the 2000s, an enlargement with a whole group of countries that were not ready at the time? Aren't we gonna make the same mistake we made back then? I also refer to Mr Van Ballekom's speech. In our view, another error was also made at the time with the enlargement of the East. Countries must meet the so-called Copenhagen criteria. For example, the country must be a democratic rule of law and respect human rights before it becomes a member. However, while you can enforce reforms before a country joins, there is no adequate mechanism for compliance with these criteria once a country is admitted to the club. Does the Minister share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u170	I have a question. I remember enlargement very well in 2004. But is it not true that at that time we did not allow the whole armada on the basis of those criteria, but that at least Bulgaria and Romania were put on hold and were admitted later? That is in contrast to Mr Van Apeldoorn's statement at the moment. The criteria have therefore been applied very well at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u171	We can discuss whether the criteria have been applied very well at the time. The criteria have been applied. On paper, those Member States complied with the acquis. In practice, it turned out to be disappointing. Then there was backsliding and backsliding. That is why I say that the Copenhagen criteria must also be enforceable afterwards. I do think that the admission of Bulgaria and Romania, which joined a few years later, has been too fast if you see the problems in those countries, for example as regards corruption and the rule of law. In retrospect, I think that those countries should have stayed in the waiting room longer. At the end of the day, I remain convinced that, considering everything, enlargement has gone too fast with too many countries at once. Bulgaria and Romania came a little later, but that was only three years later, I believe. So that's not a big deal. There are also big problems there. If Mrs Oomen denies the European Commission's report on this, she will see that there are major problems there. I think we could have avoided this if we had waited longer for enlargement and if we had also ensured that an adequate mechanism had been put in place to ensure that standards in the area of the democratic rule of law were respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u172	I was there, I think. But my position is that the criteria have been maintained at that time for the countries that have joined. Because we applied the criteria, the other countries were Bulgaria and Romania were also admitted to the armada later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u173	I think I repeat myself when I say that it is true that Bulgaria and Romania were admitted later for that reason. Nevertheless, in my group's view this was too early. There's been a mistake. I hope we don't repeat that mistake. I fully endorse Mr Van Ballekom's plea in this respect. Before we expand further, we must first ensure that the enforcement of standards in the area of the democratic rule of law is enforceable. Otherwise, we're gonna have an even bigger problem than we already have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u174	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u175	Yes, I'll continue my argument. Mr. Chairman. As far as the crisis of European rule of law is concerned, the EU has so far been particularly powerless. For too long the tendency has been to keep the sweet peace, for example with Victor Orbán. I can see Mrs Faber laughing. Although it is growing in awareness that this is no longer the case, I am not confident that the EU, including the Von der Leyen Commission, really wants to go ahead. Can the Minister reassure me or not? We do now have the conditionality mechanism for the European budget, but unfortunately it has been decided that the Commission is still waiting for what the Court of Luxembourg thinks of the dubious claim that the MFF regulation is not in line with European law. As I understand it, the Court will rule next week. If the Court fails Poland and Hungary, is the Commission going to use this instrument immediately? Will the government insist that no funds from the Recovery Fund go to these countries until the recommendations on the rule of law have been implemented? My group also regrets that the new conditionality is limited to situations where the violation of the rule of law is detrimental to the EU's financial interests. If, therefore, freedom of the press is further undermined or if more discriminatory practices are applied, then there is little we can do about it. Does the Minister agree with us that the scope of the new MFF instrument is actually too limited and, if so, does he see possibilities for extending it? When it comes to extending the instruments, also in the light of the non-functioning of Article 7 of the Treaty, which has been mentioned many times earlier this morning, is not a Treaty amendment at the end of the day? That's what I'm asking the Minister. A new treaty, which is desirable in any case with regard to the SPD, would be a good opportunity to better anchor the legal status of the EU and its enforceability. In the end, it should also be possible for us to end cooperation at EU level with Member States which repeatedly violate the value of the democratic rule of law flagrantly and which may slide from democracy to autocracy. Does the Minister wish to bring forward the European debate, possibly within the context of the conference on the future of Europe, on a treaty change and such an expansion option in Europe? That would be very nice. Mr. Chairman. A value community only works if you talk to each other about how you put those values into practice, even if you understand that you can't take the measure of others without looking critically at yourself. Especially since the surcharge scandal we know that there is enough to be critical about when it comes to our own rule of law. Here too, the principles of the rule of law have been seriously violated on several occasions and the government has repeatedly not acted lawfully. The Netherlands will have to work hard to restore the broken trust here too. I'd like to get a reflection from the Minister on this. And what does the government do with the disturbing report by the Venice Commission on the supplement scandal and recommendations, for example on the malfunctioning of Article 68 in our Constitution? We now know that it is not operating within the limits of the rule of law by the Tax Administration, unfortunately, not limited to the surcharge system, as has now been shown by the shocking disclosure of the Fraud Signaling Provision, the blacklist that you could also find on the basis of external characteristics. There is a government that does not protect citizens but does unprecedented injustice and discriminates against citizens. What is the Foreign Minister going to do to ensure that the Dutch rule of law again sets the right example and not the wrong one in Europe? And how is it going to ensure that such violations of our rule of law no longer occur? Does the Minister find it shameful to us that the Group of States against Corruption, GRECO, found that out of the 16 recommendations she had made earlier on the Netherlands, none had been implemented at all and half had not been implemented at all? The latter included recommendations on the prevention of corruption and the promotion of integrity among drivers at the highest level, including ministers who enter and subsequently become lobbyists through the revolving door. Can we count on the Netherlands to comply with the recommendations for the next round? Of course, the principles of the democratic rule of law also apply to the EU itself, to the level of European decision-making. Here, the EU is still at its best a lack of democracy. Poor because EU governance is still not sufficiently transparent. A point which has certainly been called for by the Dutch Parliament. Without this openness, the control role of national parliaments will also be compromised and the European institutions will not be able to provide sufficient accountability to citizens. The Council is still often guilty of this, but the European Commission is often far from being open to the public. Last year, for example, it was revealed in NRC Handelsblad that with regard to the so-called tax rotations, the Commission does not keep any e-mails at all and therefore the decision-making process is not traceable. Furthermore, here too, it is avenged that a lot of decision-making actually takes place in official working groups behind closed doors. How does the Minister feel about this? Does he agree with me that there is still a long way to go in terms of transparency in the European Union? And if so, what kind of commitment can we expect from him on this issue in Europe? Mr. Chairman. The biggest problem with European democracy, or rather the lack of it, is perhaps the fact that the EU has been interfering too much since the 1990s with matters that the Member States themselves can deal with and that too much national policy space has already been limited in advance by European rules, in particular the rules of the failed internal market. We therefore believe that we need a more flexible EU, which offers more scope for national diversity, but within the limits of the shared values of the democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the problem is less that we have European laws and regulations that go beyond national rules, but that we have too many European laws and rules in areas that the EU should not be about. This ultimately undermines the legitimacy of the EU as a whole. Can the Minister reflect on this? Finally, Mr President. This debate is also about fundamental rights. The rule of law concerns first and foremost the protection of individual citizens' rights against the arbitrary nature of an otherwise almighty government, but also against what would otherwise be the lawlessness of the free market. So we are talking about fundamental rights, human rights. The organisation for this in Europe, I was talking about this morning in an interruption, even though it is not the EU but the Council of Europe. Since 1949, the Council of Europe has been the guardian of human rights and democracy with its own human rights treaty, the ECHR. Since the 2009 Lisbon Treaty, the EU's legal obligation to join the ECHR exists, but a combination of legal problems and a lack of political will to resolve them has caused years of delay. What is the state of affairs now that negotiations have been reopened last year? Is there any progress in the matter now? It would be good if the EU also joined the Social Charter of the Council of Europe in order to better guarantee fundamental rights. Can this also count on the government's support? May I remind you that we in the First Chamber have a very close relationship with this organisation for human rights and democracy, with very active members and recently even a member of this Senate as President of the Parliamentary Assembly? I see him, Mr Kox, sitting there in the public gallery. Will the Minister shortly be going to Strasbourg to strengthen government ties as well? Then he can finally fulfill the promise of several predecessors. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I would also like to endorse all the questions put by Mr Karimi and Mr Koole about the often inhumane situation in which refugees and migrants find themselves at the European external borders. I would also like to endorse the call for an end to this and for the government's commitment in this area. I come now to the end of my speech. The democratic rule of law is the foundation of our European cooperation. That foundation is subject to severe erosion. I therefore look forward to the response of the two ministers in this Chamber, whom I would like to welcome in their new office, to hear from them how they are going to make an effort to reverse this tide. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u176	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-eerstekamer-3.u177	I'm suspending the sitting for the break until 1:30 p.m.
