ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Financing Act to Political Parties in connection with the evaluation of this law, the second term, or reply and rejoinder. I welcome the Minister once again, as well as the spokesmen and the people who are following the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for my opportunity to make a contribution, as a substitute for Mr Van Baarle. That won't be easy. You have already had an intensive debate on the Financing Act for political parties. I have three motions which I would like to make on behalf of myself and Mr Van Baarle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that transparency of party financing is limited to the publication of annual reports, additional election statements and opinions of the Supervisory Board of political parties;]] [[Considers that in the context of a transparent democracy, everyone should be able to learn about party financing in an easily accessible way;]] [[having noted that in the United Kingdom, for example, there is a database of The Electoral Commission in which party funding has been made transparent;]] [[calls on the government to examine how to make the reporting on party financing for residents of the Netherlands more accessible and understandable, and to draw inspiration from abroad, and to propose to the Chamber a proposal under the upcoming Political Parties Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the present legislative proposal contains stricter provisions on the transparency rules of donations to political parties and a ban on gifts from outside the EU;]] [[noting that political parties or donors could use bypass routes to circumvent rules for disclosure of gifts;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, in the evaluation and interim reports on the Wfpp, the possible use of possible bypass routes, including:]] [[donations from outside the EU to Dutch political parties via EU countries;]] [[the use of the possibility of anonymous donations to political parties;]] [[the use of the possibility of granting loans to political parties or of postponing payment;]] [[gifts in kind to political parties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-71]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u4	And then finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to transfer the Financing Act to the Political Parties Act (Wfpp);]] [[noting that GRECO is the Council of Europe's consultation to monitor compliance with the organisation's anti-corruption standards;]] [[noting that the Wfpp evaluation law results from, inter alia, the (critical) reports and recommendations of GRECO;]] [[noting that GRECO does not in principle assess or evaluate individual legislation;]] [[considers that the new Wpp should be assessed against the Council of Europe's anti-corruption standards;]] [[noting that technical assistance could be provided through the Council of Europe to assess laws and proposals on the Council of Europe's anti-corruption standards;]] [[noting that this request may be made by the President of the Chamber;]] [[Calls on the President of the Chamber to request technical assistance from the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, which will review the Wpp against the Council of Europe's anti-corruption standards and the recommendations of GRECO previously made to the Netherlands with regard to party financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u5	As you can see, Mr Van Baarle has made extensive motions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. We witnessed that. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. If a legal procedure takes a little longer, but especially if there are a lot of amendments to it, you know that you are talking about a subject that the representative of the people wants something with. That is in stark contrast to what the government wanted with it. The government agreement of the previous Rutte cabinet already stated that it was going to do something about funding from non-free countries. That bill didn't come through. We had to move on that. And when it got there, the Chamber quickly picked up the written procedure, but it took us a long time to get answers. But now we're here. It is almost the finish of a legal process if you are at the second term of course not for the minister, because she still has to go to the First Chamber. Now we're here. The law needs a lot of change. We are all saying that we do not want to get into a situation where we can be bought as political parties. You don't want corruption, but you don't want that vulnerability. That is why it is good to have transparency requirements. That was the spirit of the Finance Act political parties, but it did not lead to that. This was because there were shortcuts, because parties were able to hide everything and because the transparency requirements were always late. A number of things are about to change. The limit of what you're allowed to give, a ton a year per batch per person, we're going to change. I think that's very good. That long history of law may have caused it to happen, I'd say. As I've heard everyone in the first term, we're probably going to say about funding from abroad: don't. Moreover, I have seen the Minister's recovery note about this funding from abroad, but it was, of course, painful to see that the Ministry of the Interior thinks that the town of Babberich, under the municipality of Zevenaar, is abroad. Anyway, it's recovered and we're done talking about it. I put up a couple of maps of the Netherlands and stuff like that. The Minister said in her first term: the more exceptions you make to the maximum gift of a tonne, the more undesirable it is. I will ask the VVD how it stands in the meantime, but I can see that there has been consensus on the maximation. As far as the SP is concerned, it could have been a lower amount, but let's work with a ceiling. Then we'll evaluate that and see how it goes. I had a huge rally with the Minister about making a gift public as soon as possible and without delay. That is ten days, or two weeks: then you give just a week before the elections a substantial amount, so that a political party can do something and it is not visible. Can't you speed that up to five or three days? I'm so sorry we can't figure it out that way. I have seen that D66 is also tabling an amendment with a variation on it. Everything is better than creating something that we know handy treasurers of parties in this room are going to use. Or handy donors, because that was the standing practice when we were going to deal with this bill: handy treasurers with handy donors, who picked the moment just as well. We just have to say that no party does that. We just don't want to. There is also an amendment that will certainly make it, which says: make transparent who gives when there is an intermediary. That's actually not being able to hide from giving. I trust that amendment will be adopted. We'll win a lot with that, too. Finally, I would like to talk to the Minister about the financing of local parties. She said in the first term: as it is now written down, there are ifs and buts on it and it is too much arranged. She wants to do it herself and she wants to include it in the Political Parties Act, which she wants to bring into effect in 2024, while the amendment said that it should now be settled from the existing pot, if no money is found. It is more fair if local political parties are also simply covered by the Financing Act political parties. I've seen there's no basis for that. What have Mrs Arib and I done with our amendment? We changed it. The Minister can set up a subsidy scheme by 2024 and until then, in order to make the conditions that are to be imposed on the grant scheme as much as possible compatible with the rules that apply according to the Financing Political Parties Act. But we are sure with that amendment that it will come into effect in 2024. We do not know for sure whether the Finance Act will be there for political parties. I will not blame the Minister for his lack of ambition, because she does not deserve it. But you just don't know how it goes. I think that today, at least in the vote next week, we should give up or give up whether it is going to happen. Mr Eerdmans will also argue it. When we stood here with the budgetary treatment and said that we wanted to make money available for it, it was said: wait a moment for the treatment of the Finance Act political parties. Now we are here and it is said: wait for the treatment of a law that is not yet in place. That law has yet to come out of its egg and has yet to go to the Council of State. The law may still have to be revised and then sent to the House of Representatives. That could take a long time. It can happen fast, but it can also take a long time. So the guarantee that that will be settled from 2024 onwards, which is the Minister's ambition, is not there. In the meantime, if the law is delayed, the Minister can say: I am making a good subsidy scheme. It can do so by general measure of administration, in consultation with the municipalities. Then she can do justice to the Fellowship Committee. It may even be that, if she doesn't find any money, she has to report us: too bad boys, it has to come out of the current pot. That is something that is then the case. The call of the SP is: end this discussion and let us state in the law that there will be a subsidy for our local democracy by 2024. Because that's democracy, too. We shouldn't let that go, and we shouldn't look down on that. They're just part of it. We don't have to wait any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I shall now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. The Vice-President of the Chamber says that he already knew that I would move to the left, but it is really the presidency, of which he himself is Vice-President, that put me in a different place. I've been moved into the new distribution in two compartments, two pie points. But I didn't get involved this time. There are plenty of other things I wish to interfere with. I can see the President smiling at the work that will be done by 20 groups. We have an extremely serious piece of legislation here and it has also been treated extremely seriously. That is, when we talk about a new culture in this Parliament, at least profit, I think. There have been quite serious incidents about the funding of political parties in recent years. I had hoped that a number of people here would have responded to my comments on the company succession scheme. I have told you here that attempts have been made, by several parties, to influence that. If you are a normal citizen and you inherit your parents' house, you will pay 10% or 20% tax on it. If you are a real estate investor and you do so through a certain construction, you pay 3% tax, because then you can pull it in via a double BOR. So the cottage detector pays 3% tax and the ordinary citizen, who just pays his tax, pays 10% or 20%. The first million is already free anyway. The lifting of such structures is extremely useful, but certain people who also pay political parties have not been very keen on it. I think we should send out the message here, and I shall do so here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u10	What does Mr Omtzigt say? Is he accusing certain political parties of corruption? Of paid conflicts of interest? Because of money having a different voting behavior? How exactly am I supposed to explain this? It sounds pretty alarming what I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u11	I said what I said in my first term. I would indeed be pleased if the donations would be limited, because I have seen lobbies at several parties for the company follow-up scheme. I shall therefore propose, by way of motion, that the tax structure which is possible under this should be abolished as soon as possible. I will urge everyone to vote in favour of this motion. Mr. Chairman. There are good reasons to investigate the funding of political parties. Those who have heard it and who are responsible for it have probably followed this debate well. I'll explain one more time. Here in this country you can give your company to your successor, for example to one of your children. Five years later, you can buy back your company at a maximum amount from your child. Then the company sucks itself out of debt. And five years later, you're probably 80 years old. You're giving the company away again. Then you've used everything twice and you barely pay inheritance tax, because there's an 83% exemption. You mustn't want this. That is why I shall first table my motion and then come to the rest of my comments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of tax advisory offices recommend the following construction in the case of succession:]] [[the old generation gives the company to the young generation and uses the BOR;]] [[after more than five years, the old generation buys back the company from the young generation at the highest possible price, resulting in a debt;]] [[Over time, the company passes to the young generation through the BOR or BOF in the event of death or through a second donation, so that de facto no gift/heritance tax is paid;]] [[considers that within a family per generation, the succession scheme should only benefit once;]] [[calls on the government to lay down this in the lower regulations and thereby make this structure, double BOFs, impossible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the points of this law. I have tabled two additional amendments. The first amendment concerns an additional provision for the scope of this law. I'll be honest with you about that. As a group, I am not one of them, because I am not a political party, even though everyone asks me to do so on a daily basis. This means that the support foundation set up for me, which collects money, among other things, through crowdfunding, does not fall within the scope of the law. I have tabled an amendment which also covers the operation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u13	That is the amendment to item No. 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u14	Yes, that is indeed the amendment to item No. 65. I can speak loudly about everything being public here, but if I had the only foundation that would not be transparent, that could be somewhat misunderstood. Not that there are large donations of which nothing will be declared, but it will have to be signed that nothing will be declared. Secondly, I have included an evaluation clause in the law. I hope, of course, that the law on political parties will come into force, but given the history, I am not sure whether it will happen soon enough. I think this law should be reviewed shortly after the next election. What makes this lawmaking so good? I understand that we can now look at the previous elections. If anything else needs to be changed, we must be able to do so in time for the next elections. You don't want an evaluation that indicates three months before the elections in your country: we still have to do this. So don't put a fixed deadline in the law, just say that you evaluate it a few months after the election and then again. I think this law needs to be evaluated more often than the average law. Mrs Leijten referred to this as well. This law tends that some treasurers might be looking for a hole that isn't there yet. That is what comes out of the evaluation and it will have to be repaired. That's all in the game. So let us just record that and then we can see what is desirable and undesirable. This was the amendment in part No. 66, Chairman. I have also tabled an amended amendment to the amendment that I had already tabled. That says: think of a party not as all kinds of separate things, but as one group. That's not because it's rigged up as a group, but it makes sense that you have a youth organization, it makes sense that you have a scientific institute, and it makes sense that you have a local department. Take the gifts all over the political party, all over the political movement, together and look at the ceilings. See if you need to do that transparency. I have heard the Minister say that if this is not adopted, she will take it into account in the Law on Political Parties in view of its desirability. I shall therefore take a good look at that, because I think it is also very desirable. And if it goes too fast for the room, I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u15	You are referring to the Amendment No 1 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u16	That is the amendment to item No. 59, thank you. Mr. Chairman. I am very much in favour of a maximum. I have an amendment to that effect, together with Mrs Leijten and Mrs Arib. As far as transparency and the lowering of the border are concerned, I think this is an extremely fruitful discussion. As far as financing from abroad is concerned, I think it is a good thing to take that big step. We must define "foreign" well for the people of Babberich, but that will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u17	Until recently, there was only one member from that region. It's a long way down for me. There are also almost no MPs living in this part of the Netherlands. That's another painful point. I think that is important, also in view of the results, because between the previous treatment and this one we have seen how important local parties are. I am very much in favour of Mrs Leijten's amendment. It really cannot be that we are pretending that they are not part of our democracy. I support the initiative to present the Wpp to GRECO, because I think it will improve. That's a very good suggestion. Mr. Chairman. Because it is very complicated legislation and I have very bad memories of the Childcare Act from 2002 and 2003, to which we have also tabled a hundred amendments and where at the end we did not get what happened properly, I ask you to have a second reading of this law. Next week we will only vote on the amendments. Then we can all see whether there are still issues that are technically not working, because there are five or six amendments that have been tabled. If necessary, the government will then be able to issue a short letter of amendment to settle matters. Then we don't do too stupid things here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Then I give the floor to Mr Ellian, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of hard work in the last few weeks. I have to say, you'll notice that the tension builds as the delay progresses. I'm glad to see that the minister has recovered and is fit again. Mr. Chairman. A nuclear contribution from my side. Many amendments have been tabled. I think I have 70 at the moment, but of course amendments have now been replaced. I do wonder what that says in general terms about the total quality of the present law. In addition, I have no value judgment over all those who have worked on this law. So I think Mr Omtzigt's proposal to take a moment is sensible. Then we can see how this law is ultimately made after several amendments have been adopted or not. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two other introductory remarks. Don't worry, then I'm gonna take the edge off and tell you what the VVD thinks now. Mr Omtzigt made a long contribution last time, but that was not without reason. He explained why he had a long contribution. Because at other times, he can't do that. He also said "second-rate chamber member" or "third-rate chamber member." That touched me. I would like to take this opportunity to say that at least I do not think he is a second or third-class member of the Chamber. Let me make a comment. There was some hilarity about a family member of mine who was also indirectly speaking on this subject. As you know, after the previous discussion, I asked whether that family member when I have debates could simply read a book, write a column or whatever. Besides, I don't know if that family member's watching right now. Mr. Chairman. Let's get to the heart of the matter. I would like to thank my fellow Members for the exchange of views. That's how I've experienced it. An exchange of views also requires that you are dared to be convinced by others and dare to reflect on your own input. This leads me to conclude that my own amendment on a ceiling is not particularly promising. That means that I will withdraw that amendment. Then, of course, the question is: what now? I hope you'll forgive me all because you know how it works for us. Next Tuesday, we in the group will be voting on all the opinions. I can already tell you that we are going to support one of the proposals on a ceiling per amendment. We therefore support a maximum, because it is clear to us that this is necessary. Then I'll walk briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u20	I would like to ask, just to be safe, for our administration: what amendment are you withdrawing? There are indeed 70 amendments. Is that the amendment to item No. No 54 or the amendment to item No 54. 23? I'll ask for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u21	That is the amendment to item No. 54. That's my old amendment to part No. 24.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u22	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr. Chairman. We also consider rapid disclosure relevant. I will wait and see what the Minister is going to say, but there must be some speed, as far as we are concerned, especially when it comes to more substantial amounts. We also consider it important to limit anonymous donations. It's actually not right to justify that people can donate anonymously. To a low amount one could say that it should be possible, but a restriction seems to us to be the issue. You know what I think about disclosure from €1,000, because I myself am one of the proposers. Let's see. As far as we are concerned, these are the key elements of the debate and the exchange of views. I do not want to anticipate anything from the local parties, because I really think it is up to Mrs Van Dijk to explain the motion. I thank her for her efforts, because she really did it. It concerns her and her party, but I think we should all be concerned about it. The local party is getting firmer grounded and so... Mrs Van Dijk has prepared a motion which I am also under. Then I'm actually through the most nuclear-like points. I would point out that we will still be voting on all the motions and amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u24	Now there will be a motion in a moment to say that a subsidy scheme for the financing of local parties should be put in place by 2024. Of course, it is very good that this motion is being tabled, but we can also say that we are putting it in the law. If that is not purer, I should like to ask Mr Ellian, because then we will know for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u25	You don't always have securities, but that motion is meant to ensure with some degree of certainty that local subsidies will be arranged. But I have another, more fundamental objection to regulating the position of local parties in this law now. You have been able to taste a little bit in my introduction and I think that I have some doubts about the total quality of this law. So I'm wondering if this makes the law clearer. An even more important objection is that this law does not impose any requirements on the establishment of local parties. And if we are going to give them money, and that is, in my opinion, a conclusion that everyone agrees with, then it must be clear by law what else we are asking of them. In my view, this requires a different law, namely the Law on Political Parties. I hope it is at the top of the Minister's list somewhere, because we can deal with it at once. That motion guarantees that that money must be settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u26	If the Minister manages to get the Law on Political Parties to enter into force by 2024, the subsidy scheme contained in the amendment will of course no longer be necessary. It'll expire on its own. So all you do is say by law that it's not an intention but a guarantee to come up with a subsidy scheme. What could the VVD have against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u27	In itself, guarantees are always pleasant. I also think that, depending on the Minister's response... I mean, I can't imagine that the Minister would just ignore such a motion. I believe that the starting point is that we want that funding, that subsidy, to be settled by 2024. I will wait and see what the Minister will say, because I have to tell you quite frankly that your amendment struck me somewhat, because I had not yet seen it. In my view, we do not disagree on the starting point or the means. There are two choices. My preference at the moment is the route, the means, proposed by Mrs Van Dijk on behalf of the CDA. But you know me as someone who is always willing to look openly at your amendments. But I haven't seen it yet; I just heard it for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u28	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u29	I think the difference is that the amendment regulates it legally and that you no longer let it be the question whether when the Law deals with the political parties, that subsidy scheme is also regulated. You have a stick behind the door, while that motion does have that good intention, but offers no guarantees. For the rest, the system is exactly the same, because we have joined: the subsidy scheme can be made by the Ministry. This is also contained in other laws of the Ministry of the Interior, for example the grant to the National Committee 4 and 5 May. It can all be done through a general measure of governance. That can be done here, but it has to be done at that time. That is what we lay down in the law and then we have shaped our co-legislative task. I think that's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u30	Let me stress once again, in my view, that everyone is convinced and aware that we must move towards subsidising local parties, not in ten years' time, not in eight years' time, but in 2024. That's what the motion says. I'll wait for the Minister's appreciation. I hear what you're saying. Of course, it is more powerful to regulate something by law than by motion. I await further discussion, but the starting point is that it must be settled by 2024. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ellian. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks entered the debate in the hope that the outcome would be that people would be able to give a maximum amount to a political party. We tabled an amendment to set that amount at €25,000. I also said in the debate that the amount is not the most important thing for GroenLinks, but above all that there will be a maximum amount. That is why, to be safe, I have put my name under Mrs Leijten's amendment, which goes for a higher limit, namely €100,000. I sincerely hope that our amendment will be adopted and, if it is not adopted, that Mrs Leijten's amendment will be adopted. Finally, after this avalanche of amendments, I think it is a good idea to look again at what has become of them in a second reading, so I also support Mr Omtzigt's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u33	Thank you. Perhaps we could check immediately whether there is a majority in favour of Mr Omtzigt's proposal. I have the idea, but I'm gonna take a look at the members. That's the case. This means that we are going to vote next week on the motions and the amendments and a week later on the legislative proposal. Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans of JA21. Go ahead, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also in the reply a small comment by JA21. We welcome some of the changes that have been made, including in the amendment itself. The transparency promoted by the funding of political parties, foreign donations and maximisation are good points of attention. The local parties, that is a very difficult point for us, at least to accept that it is being postponed again. We have spoken about this too. We support the SP amendment, because it is now simply time to settle it. In Germany, I believe, they have spent 20 years fighting their law on political parties for each other. I hope 2024 is chiseled in the wall, but we would rather settle it now, just now, to help the local parties with their financial deficits. Finally, something about the disclosure limit. We have some difficulty in letting go of that border. We always think it's a good thing, except for the start-ups. We do not think it is right for new parties to comply with this requirement. Why? Because they have no other source of income except those donations and because it is a very high threshold for donors, so we have experienced in person, to make you familiar with a new party. So that's an extra handicap. We are in favour of the BZK notification obligation so that we know what everyone is depositing, but we would only like disclosure for the existing parties to give new parties the space and opportunity, because I know how difficult that is. Again, I do not preach for my own parish, because we have already climbed this mountain. We have two sub-amendments on the way to Mr Ellian's and DENK's amendments. If they are adopted, we want to undo it for new parties. That's what brought me to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u35	There is a question from Mrs Leijten from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr. Eerdmans jumps on the fence for the local parties. He says, there's just got to be a level playing field. That's what I'm all for. His argument is: no, but not a level playing field for everyone who participates in democracy. The starting point must be that everyone who participates in democracy, in elections, whether local or national, shows how they finance themselves. That's got to be the principle, right? There shouldn't be a difference, right? Because it is about the participation and transparency of democracy. It's not about bullying local, new or old parties. It's about knowing how a political party is funded. That is precisely what is important, including for voters, so that they know which party they are actually voting for. Any chance they were bought? I don't want to say that at all about new parties, you know, not at all. But I think it's in everyone's best interest to do that. Shouldn't Mr. Eerdmans see it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u37	On that first point, of course, there is no level playing field. Because the start-ups have no party funding at all. Then you should also say: people who report to the Election Council get party funding, because they don't have party funding either. If they're not represented in this Chamber or in the Upper Chamber, they don't have it. So they're literally at zero. Then you can say, "Then they'll have to prove themselves." That's what they're gonna do. They're getting money for that. But that is a handicap if you maintain the €4,500 limit in that way. 'Cause then don't give in to donors. Then a customer says to me, "What? You stand up for that party? We don't want that. I'm not going to see you anymore." So I guess that's really one thing. I say again: the obligation to register with BZK remains in our proposal. In fact, there is nothing mysterious at all. It's just being tested. But I think it's really a threshold that exists. That will not apply to every new party. I also say: but parties who want to enter this Chamber and who do not serve the vested interests, let me say that they do run into that wall. So I certainly do not think it is a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u38	I think that the importance of democracy, how you organise yourself, including the right of association within which Members can and should have budgetary law, means that you should not hide that money. I do not understand why JA21 wants to make a difference between parties who are new to the elections and parties that are already there. I think everyone should have a little bit more of a tooth. But I think we're taking some good steps. I think it would be a shame if the JA21 sub-amendments were to undo it, whereas we have taken the discussion one such step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u39	I find that very easy to talk from the SP, which is already established here. That's what I'm standing up for. Yes, I do. We'll keep that $4,500 limit. It's just gonna last. We actually want to stick to the old. But if the amendment is adopted, that limit will be abandoned. I'm gonna say, "I'm gonna be great." I'm in on that. That's what we stand for. But for the start-ups, the new parties that are gonna come forward, I really think it's a huge handicap if she gets hurt. I do not agree with you at all that there are equal monks, equal hoods. 'Cause it just isn't. Unlike us who are represented here, they have to fight their way in, they have no support at all, and they have nothing at all. In this sense, they are indeed comparable to local parties at the moment. They have nothing, and they have to do it all by themselves. I therefore call for this threshold not to be raised. This is done in the proposal of the VVD and DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u40	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u41	I regret that JA21 is making such a big deal out of the SP as an established party. We too came here once as a new party and were stared with our necks at when we were sitting here at the beginning. We also had no form of financing at the time, other than our own membership funding and funding through the payment scheme. If you were to look in principle at the financing of political parties, as I said last time, I actually think that they should not be dependent on subsidies at all. But if there is, then everyone must have access to it. Then everyone must also comply with the same transparency rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you, you said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yeah, that's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u46	Then I give the floor to Mrs Arib, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u47	Thank you. However, it is good that Mr Eerdmans always presents himself as a new party, but I think he has been with us for a very long time. I thank the Minister for her answers in the first term. We have had a good, substantive debate on the basis of arguments. I really like watching Mr Ellian convince himself. Because that's part of politics, too. We all have our own views, but sometimes it is also very good to have a substantive debate with each other and to come back to certain things. I hope we keep doing that. Mr. Ellian made an appeal to a relative of his. I'm afraid he's not gonna listen. I know exactly who it is. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's answers. Still, I want to say something. That is what I said in my first term. This is because it has taken too long to deal with these legislative changes. It took almost four years, and it should have gone much faster. The changes to the law will be incorporated into the new law, and that new law is also a long wait. I'm very sorry about that. In my first term, I stressed that, in a democracy, everyone's voice is equally important and that it is necessary for a functioning democracy to regulate the power of large money, to be open and transparent about giving and limiting the opportunities to donate money. Through a number of amendments we have tried to tighten up and adapt the law. These are, for example, amendments on maximisation of donations. As a PvdA, of course, we have tabled an amendment for a maximum of €50,000. GroenLinks now proposes €25,000 and colleague Leijten €100,000. That amount remains arbitrary, of course, but it would be very good if we in the Chamber would all vote in favour of it. The immediate publication of donations remains a sensitive issue. The electorate simply has the right to know in good time what donations are being made, and not until after the elections. I just think it's weird that it takes so long. I would be sorry if Mr Leijten's amendment on this subject, wherever I am, did not reach it. And then the local parties. I am curious to see Mr Inge van Dijk's motion. If that motion is passed, it could perhaps be incorporated into the new law. I see my time is running fast, so I'm going to file a motion. The motion is about overseeing the implementation of the Financing Act political parties. We now have a committee that can deliver an opinion, but the Minister can also reject that opinion, as we have seen before. Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the monitoring of the financing of political parties is still with the Supervisory Board of political parties, as part of the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations;]] [[Whereas the Court has previously stated that the monitoring of the financing of political parties should be completely independent;]] [[Considers that an independent supervisor should have all the tools available to access the origin and extent of funding of a political party;]] [[considers that an independent supervisor should have the powers to act in enforcement, ranging from issuing a warning to imposing a fine;]] [[calls on the Minister to include such an independent supervisor in the forthcoming Political Parties Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arib, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Baarle and Mr Teunissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u49	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to have spoken so extensively on this subject. It is also good to note that there is a lot of line in what we want with each other. It needs to be clearer, more transparent and more equal. I have three concerns, which I have also expressed in my speech. I caught them in motions. The first motion has to do with the fact that I think it is important that political parties have sufficient financial resources. I would like to explain this, because it is often said about the funding of political parties: you can all make beautiful flashy commercials and so on. But it is precisely my concern that we should simply give our local and provincial ministers a home where they can be trained, put up with questions, and be helped if necessary. That also requires a budget. That is why I think it is important that we monitor the consequences of what we are meeting over the next few weeks. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Wfpp Evaluation Act improves the transparency of the revenue of political parties;]] [[Whereas political parties need sufficient financial resources to carry out their tasks adequately in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the impact of the Wfpp Assessment Act on the revenue of political parties and to inform the Court of Justice thereof two years after the entry into force of the Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u51	I also made a plea in my speech about the role of political ministers. I see that it is getting heavier as a result of developments in politics. For example, more and more tasks are assigned to municipalities, but there are also developments in society. There are threats and intimidations. I also think it is very important that the formation, equipment and support of political ministers is no longer just a matter for political parties themselves, but that together we should take greater responsibility for this. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the role of political ministers has become more important as a result of developments in politics and society;]] [[Whereas the formation, equipment and support of political ministers is not only a matter for political parties;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the political ministers' associations, to examine how the government can better support political ministers in their functioning and inform the Court of Auditors of this in the 2023 budget;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u52	Then the final motion. It has to do with the financing of those local political parties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the electoral support of local political parties has grown significantly;]] [[Considering that the increased importance of the decentralised administration has increased the risk of (the appearance of) financial influence on the parties;]] [[Whereas strengthening political parties is necessary for the resilience of democracy;]] [[Whereas the structural difference in the starting financial position between local parties and local divisions of national parties should be reduced;]] [[Whereas regulation is desirable for transparency of the other revenues of the parties to the decentralised administration;]] [[calls on the Government to submit in 2022 a proposal for a Law on Political Parties to the Chamber which provides for a scheme for the subsidy of decentralised political parties in accordance with the opinion of the Veling Committee and, after consultation with representatives of decentralised political parties, a scheme for the transparency of other revenue as of 1 January 2024,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Ellian, Mr Van der Plas and Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35657-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u53	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering our questions and the letter that has been sent to us. This law has come to put an end to shady practices. It is good that transparency about donations and donations is a priority here. We support the many proposals that contribute to this and have themselves tabled an amendment on the seven-day deadline for the publication of donations of more than €30,000. We are looking forward to the Minister's opinion on this. We have done this because we find the deadline and the amount more realistic and feasible. The notification must be reviewed and assessed by an independent auditor and then sent to the supervisor. It'll take time. My group supports the SP amendment to reduce the limit of anonymous donations from €1,000 to €250. We also support VVD's amendment to reduce the threshold for public access from €4,500 to €1,000. The same applies to the amendment, which I believe also concerns the VVD, on the source of the money flows. In addition, our name is under the motion on the financing of local parties. Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that structural funding for the period after 2025 is also being considered in the development of the Wpp. I refer to the motion for a resolution, Mr Jetten. Mr. Chairman. Okay, here's what I'm gonna say. D66 advocates independent monitoring of party funding and this will be regulated in the future in the Wpp. Until then, I would like a commitment from the Minister to consider the opinions of the Ctfpp as binding as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First of all, Mrs Arib, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u55	I wondered if D66 would support the amendment on maximisation of donations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u56	Good question. For us, the main problem of this law is the shadowiness, and the main solution to this is transparency. We are not fundamental to or against maximation, but we want to do what works. The question is whether maximation really is the solution to reducing ghostiness. If donors can give a maximum amount to a political party, is the problem tackled? Where would that limit be? Every border, as everyone here says, is arbitrary. So we in the group are going to consider this again, given everything that has happened so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u57	Do you agree with me that transparency is really insufficient? Transparency is important, but not everything. In America, for example, the arms industry makes donations to both the Republicans and the Democrats. That's even on their website. A law against weapons has never been passed by the Senate or by parliaments. Transparency is therefore not enough, but a ceiling is important. I am actually surprised at D66's position on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u58	As I said before, we are not fundamental to or against maximation. We'd like to consider it. So I don't entirely agree with the PvdA. We welcome transparency, and certainly the amendment that ensures that you know where the money comes from. There has been a lot of discussion with the Minister about these flows of money. If you know something, it's better. Of course, we do not yet have American practices in the Netherlands. We are holding a finger on the wrist, as recommended by the Veling Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u59	I think it is incredibly important in a democracy to have a level playing field, to be transparent and also to have a maximum. We are not America, but I regret D66's attitude on this point incredibly. I know that D66 shares those values, "one person, one vote." That goes for the same thing here. It's not about the person who gives the most money. If we are not in favour, we will follow America's example. So I would like to give D66 once again to vote for a maximum. We are one of the few countries that have not yet reduced this. I regret that D66 has such a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u60	I'm sorry the PvdA regrets that. As I said, we weigh everything, everything that happened in first and second terms, the letter and all the proposals. We don't have a final judgment on that yet. So you don't have to regret anything. We don't have American practices yet either. In addition, there is already no level playing field in funding political parties, because everyone has other money flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u61	When we did the first term of this law, Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz was just here. Back then, she didn't know what D66 thought, so she said, "I'll get back to you." Now D66 doesn't know if she's up for a maximum. That's kind of weird. I think Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz has talked about it. What's the flag like? Is D66 going to support a maximum, so you can't take a million-dollar gift in election time? That should not be allowed to happen outside of election time. Or is D66 going to say, no, we're okay with one party getting a million in election time and the other party isn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u62	The SP takes a bit of the measure for me because we do not yet have a final judgment. It's okay. I don't agree with you. I think it is very careful that we consider this step carefully and take everything with us. We will discuss the voting list in our group on Tuesday. Nor do we discuss every law in every group meeting. I hope the SP doesn't either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u63	At the moment when there are major legislative proposals, we are certainly discussing how things are going and what is coming. Then you think: well, there are a lot of amendments; this one's gonna make it, it's gonna make it, and we're still trying to work with another party here. Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz has been behind the scenes recently. I find it really strange that you cannot openly say whether you are for or against this, because then we can really question D66 on the point of view. By leaving it hanging in the air, it will be votes for or against and the discussion will be gone. Then you don't have the exchange of views and the clarity. I deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u64	We do have this exchange of views, because D66 is in favour of maximum transparency. We also support a great many proposals from the SP, from Mrs Leijten herself on this issue. Mrs Leijten knows how we stand in this and we are going to make up our minds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u65	This surprises me, too. When it comes to legal treatment, you think about the most important points in advance. You can possibly be convinced; that is not a problem, because that is what the legal treatment is for. But you deal with it in advance in the group. It was clear to everyone that Maximation or not was one of the main points of the law. This didn't come up unexpectedly. We've all asked for it in the first term. There would be only one group meeting, but I believe that there have been at least five group meetings between first and second term due to the schedule of the Chamber. So has it been discussed or not? If we don't take positions here, we don't have a debate, do we? Then we can't convince each other, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u66	I repeat that we are in favour of transparency and openness. For us, putting an end to shady practices is the main point of this law. The question is whether maximation helps. My answer is: I don't think so yet. Like I said before, we're still gonna weigh everything. More amendments have now been tabled and judgements will soon be made. I think it is a genuine testimony of due diligence that we are going to take that with us. You can ask me anything and I can still answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u67	Imagine someone giving a million dollars to a party every year, and that party is fairly public about that. That person works in a certain industry. It is known from that person that he has certain views on certain tax exemptions, more or less windmills or more or less things on the business succession scheme, and it is not formally established that you should not come to that. Do you think that such a $1 million gift that is given every year can affect the views of the party receiving that gift? Or do you think there is no influence on the position of the party receiving that gift?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u68	Yeah, okay. Here's the thing: if that were the case, we would be dealing with American practices. And then I would follow the advice of the Veling Committee to keep the finger on the wrist. That's what I mean by finger on the wrist. If large fossil companies were to give 1 million each year to two or three of the twenty parties we now have, I would say: well, it is worth considering doing so. But this is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u69	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u70	It is interesting that Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz immediately says what the wrong parties are here. Fossil companies here aren't wrong or good. It could also be the windmill builders, I say. It could really be anyone. If you get a million dollars all the time, I also hear D66 say that that leads to influence. It is; it does not have to be difficult. The chairman of the Veling committee did not mention a ceiling in committee, but said a year ago: well, given what is happening, I am in favour of a ceiling. He even mentioned an amount of €50,000, while there is an amendment with €100,000 here. That's not designed to bully certain parties. It's pretty generous. So the Veling Committee itself has said: we are slowly seeing American situations; you have to be there before it stops. Does D66 want them first and then stop or D66 says: this happened in a number of countries; let's make sure it doesn't happen here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u71	Long questions. Thanks for the question. The Veling Committee has said: let us keep the finger on the wrist. The newspaper then interviewed the chairman of that committee. The Veling Committee came up with that opinion after examining it and he says it on his own behalf. It's not the same thing. I would say that we are simply following the advice of the Veling Committee, the finger on the wrist. If that does happen, we could pull the brakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u72	I am glad that Mrs Dekker is moving a bit in terms of position. I really appreciate that. She says: if we are talking about American practices, we do want a maximisation. Let me give you two examples of American practices. The first is a donation to D66 of 1 million just before the election, given by an IT entrepreneur, a billionaire, who made a lot of money thanks to Facebook. A lot of opinions from the group of D66 on IT I look at with at least a lot of suspicion. That's American practice one. American practice two is that another left-wing billionaire, a gentleman in Amsterdam, who made his money on the stock exchange, has given a lot of money to D66 nationwide, but also to D66 Amsterdam. So, what's it look like? That man got a great deal on the Zuidas thanks to all kinds of D66 aldermen. That's what a professor says, "absolute conflict of interest." These are two American practices in the Netherlands. Does this mean that Mrs Dekker is now saying: yes, we should proceed to maximisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u73	Two answers. In any case, I have said that we are not fundamental to or against and that we are taking everything with us. I'm not taking a stand right now. That's the first thing. Secondly, I am not talking about what is happening in the Amsterdam section. And about that million dollars we got, we've been super transparent. That's what we got. The PvdD also received money from the same gentleman. We did everything by the book. I don't think we've done anything wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u74	I find it disappointing that Mrs Dekker is reading the same note all the time, that she probably received it today from her group chairman or from anyone in the group, and that she does not go into those two matters. Those things both stink from here to Tokyo. That one, the Facebook billionaire who gave that money to D66, and the other, the stock market billionaire who gave that money to D66 nationwide and D66 Amsterdam, and who then got a sweetheart deal on the Zuidas...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u75	Your question? 'Cause I'm hearing a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u76	...the hottest piece of real estate in the Netherlands. Of this, Mrs Dekker must say: these kinds of things, which hang over politics, smells of things that we should not want in Dutch democracy? We have to prevent that. Let's just put a maxim on that. That's a perfectly normal argument, isn't it? Is Mrs. Dekker willing to take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr Bosma is now talking about shadowiness and so on. We communicated ourselves in Newsage where that million came from. We had already established the electoral programme and the list, so our positions have not changed. I'm not going into that any further. I did agree to it, though. Furthermore, my position is still the same. I'm not gonna change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you for your contribution. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you. I'll be brief. I don't have any motions. I've signed a number of motions. However, I would like to say one more thing about the accusations that are sometimes made, hidden or unprecedented, about how political parties might be financed by business. I think we should be very careful about that, including in the Chamber. As long as there's no evidence, I don't think we should say that. It greatly affects the credibility of politics. These things are going to lead their own lives, for example on social media. They're taken over by others, so it keeps singing around. I myself have experience that unfounded articles are written on the basis of some sponsor images on our party's website. It's all linked together. It is said that I am standing here in front of the meat lobby, that I am standing here in front of the agricultural lobby and that I am being paid by companies like Monsanto. That's not pertinent. I have explained in an earlier debate what that is about, but it is very difficult, as a politician and as a Member of Parliament, to defend yourself against it. I have often invited people to come to my house and go through my entire administration with a cup of coffee to show me where I've been getting money from any company. But when it sings around, it's always going to happen. And if that is also suggested in the Chamber: you will be paid by the Kremlin or you will be paid by... we do not know, but it is all a bit fishy. We just shouldn't. If there is hard evidence, you can say something about it and perhaps even have a debate on it. That is why I am in favour of openness and transparency, 100%. I'm an open book, and so is our party. That is what I wanted to say about this. I've signed motions, but my appeal is: be careful with it. If you don't have proof, don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I can agree with what Mr Ellian started. We have had a very good, substantive exchange of views with each other. It was also an open debate. This is also how I entered the debate on behalf of my group, in order to convince us and to take into account the arguments that have gone over the table. That is what we are going to do at our next group meeting. In the end, we will make a choice, because we too are in favour of maximizing donations. Four years ago, in 2018, the Veling Committee did not see any reason to make a proposal itself, but advised to keep a finger on the wrist. We believe that we have been able to do so for four years and that there is sufficient reason to adopt a proposal on this in the Chamber. It is important that we have fair elections, which are about everyone's equal input and not about money. That is what I argued in the first place. After all, it is the best ideas that should win the elections and not the most filled campaign greenhouses. That is our consideration. My group remains uncomfortable about financing from abroad, from a country like Russia, as I have mentioned, through an intermediary from another European country. For my group, this is a reason to look again closely at the amendment which proposes that, in line with the Veling Committee, you should check whether you should ban gifts from abroad. That's what we're gonna consider. On the issue of the local parties, I voted in favour of the motion tabled by Mrs Van Dijk. It is good that we are working on this quickly and that it will be a tailor-made approach for the local parties. The Minister has put forward proposals for this. I hope to receive it before the summer. I'd like her response to that. I have tabled an amendment together with Mrs Arib on ensuring an independent position of the scientific institutes and political youth organisations and the ear tags of some of the extra money that has become available. We have adapted this in line with the Minister's proposal. As a result, it will become as of 2023. I understood that this could count on a positive opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues very much for the substantive debate we have had here. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their hard work on all the amendments, which are clearly in favour of tightening up, and also show that the Chamber wants political influence not to be for sale. A powerful signal. The Animal Party is happy to support the many amendments, explicitly for the Leijten/Arib amendment, which lays down that local political parties should be able to do their work without being dependent on companies or individuals. As a former city councilman in The Hague, I have seen what kind of fuss that can lead to locally. It is therefore important that we move quickly now, that we do not wait until 2024, but that it is settled now. We also support any tightening-up that ensures full transparency about where donations come from. We also support the tightening-up of party funding from abroad. We encourage that. It is also very good to see that there is broad support for setting a maximum. That, too, strongly supports the Party for Animals. I would just like to point out the sub-amendments I have tabled, both to Mr Ellian's amendment and to Mrs Leijten's amendment. I will stick to the point that inheritances and bequests should be excluded from a ceiling. People need to be able to put their legacy into the service of a political idea that has always been close to their hearts. We consider the use of last-minute donations in elections to be highly improbable. That is why I would like to maintain these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u84	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about 20 minutes to prepare himself. I'm gonna see if I can make it a dinner break right away. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case. If the Minister has no objection to that either, then we are just going to do it with each other. I shall suspend the sitting until 6:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u85	The next item is the debate on the Amendment of the Financing Act to Political Parties in connection with the second-term review of this law on the Minister's side. I give her the floor to give an appreciation to a number of amendments, as well as a number of motions, and to answer one more question. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to do it as structured as possible, because I realize that the necessary amendments have been tabled which have also been amended in various ways and which must also be a clear set-up during the votes. I'm going to do my best to make that possible. First of all, I would like to thank Members for the exchange of views they have had and for a number of aspects that they have raised. The conclusion that can be drawn is that the legislative proposal, which the previous cabinet once started, will be subject to a different legislative proposal after the votes. I believe that there has been a good debate and that a number of valuable arguments have been exchanged on how to implement this aspect of our democratic rule of law. Mr. Chairman. I shall look at the amendments as much as possible. I will answer some of the amendments a little bit shorter and some a little longer, depending on the earlier exchange of views. First of all, the amendment on item No. 53 by Mr Van Baarle, who still needs an appreciation. That was the amendment in part No. 36 and that was about bringing forward the evaluation period and the request for more frequent evaluation. I had asked Mr Van Baarle to amend that amendment. He did. That is why this amendment has become a Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Ellian's amendment on additional transparency on donations to foundations and associations. That was the amendment in part No. 25 and that is now Amendment No 25. 56. This has also been shown in the debate a number of weeks ago that Mr Ellian and I are looking at this in a different way. This amendment is therefore not recommended. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 57 by Mrs Van der Graaf cum suis. That was the amendment in part No. 55. I had indeed asked her to put the date of entry into force of that amendment at a later date. At least it's for us as Ministry 2023. I do not know very well what this is like for political parties themselves and whether they will be able to do so by 2023. That's hard for me to estimate. But the Ministry can facilitate 2023. This will give the amendment the judgement of the Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 58 by Mrs Leijten. That was the amendment in part No. 42. This is a threshold of €10,000 and three days in public. I think the three-day deadline is too short. I would advise against this amendment. I shall be there later on with the amendment on item No. Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz's 70 amendments also come back to me, but I do not recommend Mrs Leijten's amendment. I'm gonna stick to this order just so I don't get the structure out. The amendment in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 32 replaces, deals with the register of secondary institutions and cumulation of contributions received. I indicated in the first term that I am indeed in favour of a maximisation of the donations. I can also well follow the line of the Chamber that she has chosen to do so. That is an amendment which I shall give the House's verdict on. That was, in my mind, the earlier amendment to part No. 18, tabled by Mrs Leijten. Then there was a debate on cumulation and the ceiling applicable to all institutions and associations. I said in the first term that I am less enthusiastic about this, because I want to carefully assess the impact on the administration of the political parties and the secondary institutions. At that point, and that is the same as what I said in the first term, I say: yes, I am in favour of a maximisation of the donations, but the introduction of the cumulation clause, which is contained in a number of amendments that are before us, is not my preference, as I said earlier. I therefore advise against the amendment. At the same time, I see that the Chamber is going to make its own assessment. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 61 by Mrs Leijten. That is to replace the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 44. This concerns the reduction of the threshold for anonymous donations to €250. That amendment I am judging Chamber. In view of the earlier discussion on the likely reduction of the disclosure limit and the debate we have had among ourselves, it seemed logical to reduce the anonymous donations from €1,000 to a lower amount. Otherwise, it won't be in proportion to each other anymore. On the assumption that another amendment will be adopted, I shall give the Leijten amendment judgment Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 62. That is the Leijten and Others amendment, which replaces the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 49. This concerns the cumulative maximum of €100,000 of one donor. I have just said, in the case of the Omtzig amendment, that I am not in favour of this cumulation. However, I am in favour of a maximation. That makes me the Leiten amendment c.s. But at the same time I see that the Chamber is going to make its own decision. Of course, that's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u87	What's the problem with this accumulation? Is it really true that a treasurer can't put that next to each other? Can't you automate your bookkeeping in such a way that you can say in a gift: sorry, but we get another gift from Mrs Leijten and we can't accept it? Couldn't you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u88	I have also said in the first term that it is simply the same thing that we have not studied or substantiated in the preparation of this bill what this means for the administration of political parties and other institutions. How does that work in cooperation? I also told this Chamber at the time that I can think of something about cumulation. But from my position, as I say to the Chamber, I would like to do so in a careful course to the Law on Political Parties. So I would start with a maximation, a ban, a maximum. After that, I would like to extend that further to the new legislative proposal, and then see whether or not cumulation is possible. That is the same argument, but I disagree with Mrs Leijten on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u89	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u90	Okay. So this is an organisational argument, but you also had a substantive argument in the first period. At that time, you preferred my amendment and not Mr Ellian's. You said it was more unambiguous and less opportunities for shortcuts. Does the Minister agree with me that you're just gonna leave a shortcut in it when you wouldn't put the anti-cumulative issue in it? That is not for that purpose, because the mind is of course different, but we also know how it can operate in practice. In this way you close a shortcut that could otherwise have been there and it is clear to everyone that you can give €100,000 to a political party. That's it. This should not be added via a shortcut to a foundation, the youth organisation or the scientific agency. Then there is no maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u91	Then we'll get back to the basics of the law. I have said that the basis of this law has always been transparency. You make the voter understand who gives what to who. If you give to other parts of the party, the foundations or the secondary institutions, then they should just make that public. Then people can make the calculation themselves that the same person has given money to another secondary institution, so that the gift is above a certain amount. Then it's still insightful. This is always the basis of the law, as we have built it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Ellian, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u93	As some Members have just rightly pointed out, this is the focus of this debate. For the debate in my group... I have just indicated that we will go for a maximum. But can I understand the Minister in such a way that she understands the spirit of setting a maximum and considers it desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u94	You have heard me say both in the first term and in this period that I can well imagine that the Chamber would like to introduce a ceiling. I see that the social debate has also gone that way. At the same time, it is my preference to start with the previously proposed ceiling and not to go straight to a cumulative ceiling, because we also have to look at what effect it has. I would have liked to go through a different path for that, and that makes me unsuspecting. But again, that you're going to work with maximation, I'm following. That is also what I indicated in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u95	Thank you. Then we go to the Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u96	That is Mr Omtzig's amendment on the designation of secondary institutions, the blank lists and the split-off. I say to Mr Omtzig that on the one hand, as Mr Omtzigt himself points out, it really is... I'm gonna have to look, Mr. Chairman. I looked to the right, but Mr Omtzigt is now sitting on the left! Mr. Chairman. I know Mr Omtzigt and it is to be commended that he says: if others are to be transparent, then I think, Mr Omtzigt, that splits should also be transparent. However, it is true that this law does not focus at all on political groups, but really on political parties and associations. And if we are going to bring groups into it now, it will be a different kind of law. And there's a second aspect to that. As a minister, I am going to be very close to the Chamber itself, because then I will really be checking the finances of political groups and not just the finances of political parties anymore. The monitoring committee is already doing so, but as Mrs Dekker said, I am still the one to come to Mrs Arib's motion later, which ultimately gives the final judgment on what should or should not be done. I'm just having a hard time getting together. In this way, I also find the combination of broadening the law and a minister who is going to sit very close to the political groups, and who is going to sit very close to the Chamber, a reason to discourage the amendment. I believe that, despite the very good normative approach that Mr Omtzigt has taken. Nothing stands in the way of the political groups simply following the law in everything. One can just make things transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u97	This amendment does not provide for the minister to supervise the political group budgets. We get a political budget from the Chamber, and it is also up to the Chamber to monitor it. The amendment regulates supervision of foundations that raise money for other activities of the political groups. It also regulates all kinds of things that could possibly happen to circumvent this law, because it gives the Minister a chance there. The only ones that are specifically excluded are the political budgets, because it would indeed be odd that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is dealing with the internal affairs of the political groups. If there is any ambiguity about this, I would like to hear it, because it is not intended that the political groups' budgets should be included. For those who are watching now, everyone has to submit an audit report by tomorrow with about 30,000 pieces underneath. So that's well checked internally here. More than anything else, this is controlled and no gifts can be accepted, and that sort of thing. But it is simply desirable that all other activities should be subject to supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u98	I may not have expressed myself well then, but it is not true that I am going to be on the budgets of the political groups. This is indeed about the disclosure of the gifts they receive. But it does mean that if that does not go well or else I will have a direct link with the political groups and not with the parties when they do not fulfil their obligations properly. And then I get very much into the financial waters of the political groups, and that is much more direct than when you are at an association or otherwise. So the first argument is the system of the law, because it is not on groups. The second argument is, after all, a certain caution on my part as a minister when it comes to transparency obligations, which are so close to the financial waters of political groups. But of course groups are always free to follow those rules themselves, I say to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u99	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u100	Usually the ones that try to follow aren't the ones you want to follow. That's always the problem with law enforcement. If this amendment is adopted, the next time a list is included... A list doesn't come under the law either. The LPF with 26 seats after the 2002 elections is therefore not covered by this law, even if such a thing would happen again. It doesn't include splitters. I'm just trying to make sure that all these things are covered. I hope that will be seen as an advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u101	When it comes to what this amendment regulates in relation to political groups, it is true that I still have those arguments... I will not repeat it, because I see the President looking at me: do not repeat too much. The LPF was an association, so it would have fallen under the Financing Act political parties. At least that's my image. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the sub-amendment tabled by Mr Teunissen to item No. 67 replacing No. 50 on the exclusion of heirs and bequests. I have previously indicated to Mrs Teunissen that you can also influence life with heirs and bequests. That's why I'd like it to come under the law anyway. That is why I do not recommend the amendment. The same applies to the sub-amendment tabled by Mr Teunissen on item No. 68 replacing No. 52 on the exclusion of heirs and bequests. That's the same thing. If you let them know that you want to give after you die, you can also influence life. That also means that I reject this amendment. I prefer that heirs and bequests are covered by the provisions. I shall now turn to Mr Leijten's and Mr Arib's amendments. 69 replacing No. 41 on local political parties under the scope of the Financing Act political parties. There is also a motion; I will respond to that as well. I would like to advise against this amendment, because I would like to shape possible funding for local political parties, also in the context of the resilience of the administration. That is also an answer to a question from Mr Ellian. Then there is Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz's amendment to item No. 70.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u102	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u103	The revised amendment stipulates that there should be a subsidy scheme starting from 2024, but it does not regulate how to do it. It does make it possible to grant a subsidy, because we do need it: a constitutional basis for a government grant according to Article 4:23, first paragraph of the General Administrative Law Act. The minister's gonna tell you she's gonna do it. Well, here she has her legal title to do that. What's the problem with filling that out? Then there is the certainty for local political parties that if the Political Parties Act does not make it before then, there will be a subsidy scheme. And if that law is there, it goes into the other law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u104	In the first term, I indicated that I intend to look at the financing of local political parties, also in the context of the resilience of the administration, which is important. I have also indicated that I do not have the finance at the moment. I would like to emphasise that once again. That means, for me, that funding must be linked to a number of conditions that local parties must meet in order to receive that funding. If I'm gonna get that done, I'm gonna want to get it done in one law at the same time. I don't want to split that up, because one is connected to the other. That is why I advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u105	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u106	The law contains two articles on that subsidy scheme. One is about shaping the subsidy scheme and how it is designed, exactly what the Minister wants to figure out, and the other is about the conditions under which, exactly what everyone wants. We have put it in the explanatory statement: the spirit of this amendment is as much as possible in line with the Political Parties Finance Act. So I think we want exactly the same thing. What is the objection to the Ministry, to the Minister, to create a legal basis now to be able to do exactly what the Minister wants and to be sure that it will take effect on 1 January 2024?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u107	Once again, I do not yet have the funding at my disposal. Secondly, when funding becomes available, I want it to be made available with an explicit regulation in the law to work on the resilience of the administration. This may well be subject to additional conditions. I'd like to take that together. That is also what I said in the context of the Law on Political Parties. This doesn't fit in, even because I don't have the money yet. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u108	One last, new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u109	I am very curious to hear the verdict on the motion. It does and wants material exactly the same. This only does not give the guarantee of the legal provision. That is still separate from the fact that, of course, everyone hopes that the law on political parties will be there. But everyone also knows that there are bumps that can't be there. With this in mind, we give the Minister every freedom to shape both the grant and the framework conditions for it. That's just what it says. Only, we're sure it'll go in. When that law is finished, this is therefore an empty article and the material has no value. But the moment the law isn't finished, or it doesn't go in yet, that guarantee is there. I really don't understand why the Minister doesn't want to regulate that legally. 'Cause she's always gonna have to set up a legal basis. In fact, she now says: yes, it can also be 25, 26 or 27, when the Law on the political parties has been passed. It is not fair to the local parties if that is the outcome of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u110	Mrs Arib and other members of this Chamber were quite clear that there is a good job for me as Minister to really speed up the Law on Political Parties and to ensure that what we have had with this law does not repeat itself again. I therefore feel this task too, but I still reject the amendment on the basis of the previous arguments. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 70 by Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz on contributions of €30,000 to the public within seven days. That is very much in line with the debate that took place in the first term. That amendment I am judging Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 74, replacing the amendment to item No. 66. I see the clerk nodding, so that's right. That is Mr Omtzigt's amendment on the evaluation of the Funding Act political parties after each Lower House election. In the meantime, in Mr Van Baarle's amendment, I have promised to review every three years. Of course, there's a repetitive part in that. If I also give this amendment one more ruling Chamber, it will be very complicated. This cabinet will, of course, change in three years' time, but other things can always happen. That is what I am saying to Mr Omtzigt. So I like to evaluate after three years. There is another element in Mr Omtzigt's amendment that I want to make a commitment about. That is the next evaluation with an independent committee. I'd like to give you my word on that. I therefore advise against the amendment because I have now given Mr Van Baarle's amendment on the triennial evaluation Chamber. I will make the commitment on the issue of the independent committee. I also think it is very important that we do so at the next evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u111	Thank you for that commitment. This amendment was not intended to be faster or shorter than Mr Van Baarle. I don't care if it's in his amendment. The reason I'm doing the evaluation after the election is that, for example, you start an evaluation at a fixed term of three years while you're in an election campaign. You just want to avoid that at all times. The Second Chamber election is the big thing here. You don't want the evaluation to start before the election and end after the election. Unfortunately, I do not see Mr Van Baarle or Mr Azarkan. But I'm looking for a way to prevent that. It would be a good idea for the Minister to reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u112	If there's a coincidence, we can talk to each other to see when we're gonna start the evaluation. I can see the logic of not wanting to do it in a certain time racket where a lot of things change. But then we can also decide in good consultation with each other that we are doing it at a different time. So that's also just practical with each other. But on top of those three years, a fixed pattern with the Lower House elections... I would rather make a commitment here: at the moment that Mr Van Baarle's amendment coincides with a Second Chamber election, we are just going to see how we can organise it better. Since there is also an independent committee in the evaluation, you can also take that into account in the assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u113	We're not gonna agree. I understand what she's saying, but it's easy for me to record it at law level. Then how do you record that? I tried. There are other attempts possible. But I simply see that now and in Van Baarle's amendment there is still the possibility that the deadline prescribed by the law will have exactly the evaluation when you do not want it. Then you have to write him out of the law and say, "We'll suspend that term until a week after the election or something." Then you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u114	I'm very practical. At a time when there is a wrong coincidence, we can make a different effort in good consultation. I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u116	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u117	You said it and there is another two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u118	You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr Ellian on this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u120	No, sorry, Chairman. My writing speed wasn't as fast as the Minister's speed. It is still a question of the amendment to item No. 70 by Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz. That amendment will be judged by the Chamber, I understand from the Minister. But the amendment in part No. 58 by Mr Leijten has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u121	Yes. I'm just gonna get my list. That's not recommended for the following reason. We talked about an amount at the time. €30,000 was then also the amount I mentioned. No, I mentioned something more. I think I mentioned around €35,000. I just thought three days was really too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u122	That's what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u123	That is why I think seven days is a realistic period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u124	Yes. Then we'll go to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u125	The motion in part No. 71 by Mr Van Baarle is about the research to gain inspiration abroad about the reports. He's gonna get judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 72 by Mr Van Baarle on the evaluation of the Wfpp interim reports and the possible use of bypass routes: Court of Justice opinion. The third motion, which in part No. 73, make a request to you, Mr President. I shall now turn to Mr Omtzigt's motion, which concerns item No. 75. I have found out, I say to Mr Omtzigt, that this is a motion that he has submitted to the Secretary of State for Finance. I just wanted to ask if I could just ask the Secretary of State for Finance to give another ruling on this matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u126	Before the vote on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u127	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We must ensure that this letter is there for the forthcoming votes. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 76 on an independent supervisor with supervisory and enforcement powers. That motion will be judged by Chamber. The motion by Mrs Van Dijk on item No. 77. I understand that she doesn't say that I should evaluate early, but that I should keep a finger on the wrist two years after entry into force, in the sense of: what are the first insights and effects on this particular point? So if it's not a full evaluation, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u128	Let me take a look at Mrs Van Dijk: can she agree? She agrees with your interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u129	When it comes to investigating how the government can better support political ministers in their functioning, that is, of course, a policy that we have already put in place, but it is certainly also a policy that I would very much like to pursue. I would also like to make further work of this in the regular contacts I have with the association of political ministers. So it's support policy: Judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u130	If the motion supports policy, may I suggest that it be taken over, Mrs Inge van Dijk? We have now agreed a little bit that we will do so if the implementation is already taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u131	If the Minister could promise that we will be informed of this regularly, then I think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u132	In one of the following letters on the implementation of the law, we should be able to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you. Is there any objection to the Minister taking over this motion? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u134	Then the motion-Van Dijk c.s. in piece No. 79. As I have already promised, I do intend to work on financing local political parties. I would also like to do this in the context of strengthening the resilience of democracy, where it is also good to introduce additional rules at local level. I realize that I do not yet have the funding of 10 million available at the moment and that this also calls for further elaboration in the Law on Political Parties. This motion says that the bill should be there in 2022, but I have already indicated that it is at the earliest at the beginning of 2023. With that I give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u135	There is a question about the motion-Inge van Dijk and others. by Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u136	We know how it goes. If a law comes in at the beginning of 2023, we're going to deal with it first in writing and we want to have another hearing on it. It's a law on political parties, so we probably want to take a science test on that, too. Then perhaps we will get the written reply just after the summer, and then we will be in the budget season. Then we are not going to debate the law on political parties for three or four days. That law will enter into force in 2024. Then why can't the Minister simply embrace the amendment as certainty, as a stick behind the door? Is that the only argument that she doesn't have any money yet? Is that it, then, since I hear the Minister say the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u137	You asked the question about the amendment earlier. Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u138	I repeat the arguments I made earlier when assessing the amendment. On the one hand, I really want the funding to be accompanied by additional conditions for the way in which you strengthen that resilience at local level. That also requires further work, and I do not have it at the moment. I want to do that together in the law. The second argument is that I do not have the necessary funding at the moment either. Both arguments are the reason why Mrs Leijten's and Mrs Arib's amendments should be discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u139	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u140	I can only conclude that this is a rather sour aftertaste for the local political parties. Billions of funds have been declared by this government. They're throwing money over the beam. 10 million is a lot of money, but we all know what amounts are involved in the state budget. 10 million couldn't have been found in 2024, so it couldn't get into the law. I really think it's a sour aftertaste for the local parties. Oh, my God, they're being abandoned. I sincerely hope that the coalition parties will agree. I really hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mr Eerdmans has an interruption, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u142	Then you can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u143	I agree with Mrs Leijten's story. That's, I think, against the beers. But it is good that she does, because of course this is not understood by many people in the country. A lot of council members looking at this and looking back on whether people from the Knowledge Point are standing local political parties with their hands up and wondering: why? In particular, I have the following question: that is a question of fact. You call five times the word "bearability." Do you mean by resilience, then, that local parties should learn to deal with receiving that grant, or are you afraid of the resilience with the way it is now regulated, without subsidies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u144	First of all, it is good to note that money is also currently going to local political parties. Money has become available for the knowledge base over the years. This is already a significant step in comparison to the 20 years before, in which this has never happened. In that sense, I really disagree with Mrs Leijten. The fact that we want to work seriously together on the intention to do more for local political parties is also a very big step in relation to the situation over the last 20 years. In that sense, I do not share Mrs Leijten's view. Then there is the resilience of democracy. More transparency, including from donations and finance at local level, gives more insight into what is happening there. In that context, Mr Eerdmans can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u145	Finally, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u146	Well, that's kind of important. So you are actually saying that with the current regime, the resilience is vulnerable to local parties who have to go by the door to collect money, to collect donations. If that's so important to you that you say it here five times, what are we waiting for? You can solve that problem by providing subsidies. This is done not only from the false phenomenon that local parties are disadvantaged, but above all from your own argument of increasing resilience.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u147	It is important to maintain, protect and renew our democracy. That doesn't stand still. I do not yet have the necessary finances at my disposal, but I do intend to do more on this point. This requires careful implementation of a system which is feasible at local level and which will produce the right effects. I'm less ready than Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u148	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-30-tweedekamer-9.u149	I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply, in fact all day in various debates. Today it was legislative day with this minister in the lead. I would like to thank the spokesmen and the people who have followed the debate. As I said earlier, we are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions and amendments tabled and one week later on the legislative proposal. I'll suspend the sitting for a single moment and then we'll move on to a couple of two-minute debates.
