ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal 35934, Amendment of the National Law on the Dutch Federation and the Act on the Intelligence and Security Services 2017, et cetera. We need the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u2	I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, but only after I have given the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u3	Nice introduction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a brief introduction and then I have two folders. In the Lower House I'm used to having to mention what those folders are, so that's what I'm doing here. One is about necessity and effectiveness. This includes a number of questions. The other is about the relationship to criminal law. In any case, I hope that I will have answered all the questions later on. Mr. Chairman. It is for my colleague, if I may speak on his behalf, and for me it is very special and very pleasing to speak here for the first time as a ruler on this portfolio in the First Chamber. As you know and as several Members have already indicated, in one week's time, on 1 March, the power to withdraw the Dutch identity of extravagants who have joined a terrorist organisation abroad will expire. I think it is right to put it first that the cabinet continues to regard criminal law as the most important tool for tackling terrorists. That doesn't change. However, in individual cases it may still be necessary to withdraw Dutch citizenship. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is, after all, the only measure that can prevent legal return. It also makes it difficult to return illegally. A number of your members have already pointed out that the terrorist threat has changed. I think it is important to mention here that it is not absent. The Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands shows that the jihadist threat is still the main threat. There are also still extravagants in Syria and Turkey, among others. It should therefore continue to be possible to prevent legal return in individual cases. On a case-by-case basis, therefore, it is considered that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is necessary. It also concerns whether any other measure is not more effective in the specific case. For example, this could also be a measure under the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism, which we are discussing tonight. It is therefore important to retain this competence, not as an automatism, but as a preventive measure in our toolbox to protect our national security. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to answer the questions. As I said, I deal with the usefulness and necessity and the relationship to criminal law. The Secretary of State will then discuss, among other things, the relationship with international law, the distinction between Dutch people with a single nationality and Dutch people with a double nationality, and the role of the CTIVD. Isn't that right? Great. I now turn to necessity and effectiveness. I have the first question from Mrs Veldhoen, who asked: is it not true that in a rule of law we ourselves bear responsibility for our citizens, whether they have a double or a single nationality? I fully agree with that. This is without prejudice to the fact that it may be necessary for the protection of national security to withdraw from a person his or her Dutch identity. There is a threat to national security of persons who are abroad and who have joined a terrorist organisation. The use of criminal law and other measures cannot prevent such a person from returning. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship and the simultaneous junk declaration is then the only measure that makes legal return impossible. In doing so, illegal return is severely hampered. Mrs Veldhoen, like Mr Dittrich, also had a question about the possible security problems for other countries which could then act. That was also about: isn't it sometimes a race which country would then be the first to withdraw nationality? The withdrawal of nationality is a matter of treaty law and therefore of international law. The withdrawal is permitted, inter alia, in the case of behaviour which seriously harms the essential interests of the State concerned, such as knowingly travelling and joining a terrorist organisation. There are several other Member States within the Union which also withdraw nationality. Think of Belgium, Bulgaria, Denmark, France: under other conditions, but they too have this in the toolbox. The international aspect is also weighed when considering or withdrawing the Dutch citizenship. If there are unequivocal indications that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship may harm another State and therefore affect the national security of the Kingdom, withdrawal may be waived. So it's something that's taken into account. Mrs Veldhoen and Mr Janssen had the question: it seems as if nothing has been done with input from experts and consulted parties; how do you weigh that? Every legislative proposal, including what we are discussing today, is, of course, drafted through a careful procedure. I would like to emphasise that the input provided by these parties is indeed involved. On the basis of the opinions delivered, the Government has considered whether it is necessary to retain the power to withdraw the Netherlands. The results of the evaluation by the WODC and the current threat picture give us reason to do so. After all, the cabinet has a responsibility to protect the national security of the Kingdom. The withdrawal is one of the instruments that can contribute to this, following an assessment of the individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u4	In fact, I recognize in the Minister's reply what was always said in the written debate, namely that we are going to look very carefully at it and then there will be a judgment. I would like to go back to the situation that other countries can also withdraw, sometimes on different terms. If the Minister says 'we judge that very carefully', does this mean that contact is being made with one of the other countries, of which the person is also a national? Will it be reciprocated and weighed? How's that going in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u5	It could be. This also depends on the other nationality: is that a country with which we have a particular dialogue? Of course, we have a lot of contacts with our neighbouring countries and in the Schengen area, European countries, on joint legislation and how we deal with it. There is a lot of contact between the services as well. Mr Dittrich also knows, of course, that when someone is on that list and we see whether or not we can withdraw the Dutchmanship, there is already an alert in the Schengen area. So a lot of information is shared. At the moment when it is really necessary to look together to see if this would in the unambiguous case harm another state and towards our own national security if we would do so, it will be weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u6	Does this mean that other countries are also seeking contact with the Netherlands if they are considering withdrawing the nationality of their nationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u7	That must be different from one country to another. If Mr Dittrich appreciates me going into one level of detail, I would like to do so in the second term. Then I can see if there are different appointments per country. But I know that we are very close to each other in the Schengen area. Much more important than, for example, doing so with my colleagues, our security services do so in the way, of course, within the safeguards of the law, where they can do so. But this dossier, when it comes to keeping our country, Europe, the world safe, it can only be done if you share that information. If Mr Dittrich wishes to do so, I can go into this in more detail in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u8	I'd love to. Finally, in this series of interruptions, I am asking because the essence of the bill is to promote national security. My point was: national security is much wider and is also international security. Our Constitution also protects the international legal order. The D66 Group is concerned that we in Europe, or perhaps even in a broader context, need to know how to protect ourselves from terrorism. So the question is whether when each country is very close to its own nationals, and perhaps through services it has some consultation, which promotes security and protection against terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u9	I fully agree with Mr Dittrich that it is not helpful if you only look within your own borders. That is why one of the considerations here is the international aspect. I will come back in the second period to see whether we have specific agreements on this with the various countries. But it goes beyond this bill, which we may also be talking about in another context. You can also think of people who are now in detention here or in France, Spain or anywhere else, who are released at some point. We have instruments in which we are going to be able to talk about this tonight, and we can say: we can act if criminal law does not yet apply there. But that doesn't have to be all our neighbours, and then you can just travel freely in the Schengen area. So anyway, whatever side of the spectrum you're on in relation to this kind of legislation: cooperation is crucial if you want to keep your own country and the environment safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u10	The Public Prosecutor's Office, WODC, Meijers Commission, CTIVD, Council of State all say: not such a good plan; don't do this. Directors say: yet we want it. I ask because the Minister says: we have taken it into account. But the question is, is that it? Then why are you asking for advice? If all these opinions are of the same opinion, then my question is: why do you ask those opinions and how is it substantiated, other than that the Minister says 'and yet we think it is important'? I can't get much more out of it than that. This will greatly shorten my second term, but does the Minister have more justification than just say "we think it is necessary"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u11	What I am saying, and what we have of course indicated in the answers and in the proposal, is that you need a combination of instruments if you are to be able to act properly on these kinds of threats. The WODC also concludes that none of the fourteen persons whose Dutch citizenship had been withdrawn at that time have legally returned. That's about the purpose of the law. There is also no evidence that those involved have returned illegally. As far as I am concerned, this has achieved the objective of the law and has really contributed to the protection of our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u12	If this is the only example... I have already said in my first term that this is, of course, a misconception, because we do not know at all whether one of those fourteen would want to return at all. So the fact that they haven't returned says nothing about the effectiveness of this measure. Can the Minister give further examples of the effectiveness of the law as it has applied for five years now? For in my opinion this is not one that can prove the advantage or the opposite one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u13	This is about Dutch nationals who knowingly leave for a country to join a terrorist organisation that aims to destroy what we stand for. That's what we know. Then we have these names in the picture and then we will weigh whether there are enough grounds for withdrawing their Dutch identity. Why? Because we don't want these people to come back. Soon I'll come up with what you want with those people, because no one wants them to be able to walk around with impunity. You want to prevent them from returning in the context of our national security. If you then find that fourteen of those with withdrawn nationalities have not returned and there is no evidence that they have done it illegally, we can also have a discussion about what the intention of those people was towards the Netherlands, but the primary intention is a dangerous one. So in the context of our national security, we do it. And that was the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u14	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u15	I note that the Minister is not answering my question. That is going to disprove the substantive intentions of those people, what they wanted with the Netherlands, against whether those people wanted to return. We don't know. That is what the Minister's alleged effectiveness is all about. But the Minister forgets one important step in between. You are not going to look: what did these people want and are we going to withdraw the Dutchmanship? You will first have to do what the Meijers Committee says: should you not see whether it applies to everyone and not just those with dual nationality? You're gonna ignore that, too, because you're not gonna do that. That advice is not followed either. I very much regret that, because it does maintain impunity abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u16	My colleague will soon be responsible for the aspect of one nationality, double nationality and the difference between them. Again, I think it is a bit of a complicated discussion if we ignore the intention of those people to go there and the danger that they pose to our national security, and first we should have a good conversation with them about whether they want to come back at all. We do not want these people here and say: we withdraw that nationality. That is what happened in 14 and 14 have not returned. In doing so, the goal of the law has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u17	I would like to continue with the need, also in the light of that dual nationality. You say'my colleague will be discussing this shortly', but I would like to ask a question about it. The distinction by breed is only allowed if strictly necessary. This is the case if the effectiveness of the measure has been beyond doubt demonstrated. I have already argued yesterday in my first term that this is not the case, because the evaluations say that it has not been shown that the Netherlands has become safer from this. That simply cannot be established. So my question to the Minister is: how can you justify that the need for this measure has been clearly established? Can you back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u18	I'm afraid I'm gonna repeat myself. The purpose of the law is to prevent these people from returning in the context of our national security. Mrs Veldhoen asks me: if they have not returned, how can you then prove that it has helped national security? What else would they have done? That's a complicated discussion. The goal is to prevent return. And that goal has been achieved. And we're not doing this lightly. I heard several Members say this in the law we are going to deal with tonight: can you actually say that it is effective if you apply it so little? I think it shows above all that you're not using it lightly, but you're looking at where you can do it. And where it can, it works. It's a combination of instruments. With only this one measure, if she were to say so, I would be completely in agreement with Mrs Veldhoen. Of course, you did not guarantee national security. For that we have different instruments. And we've been standing here all day, and tonight too, because more is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u19	Yeah, but we have to judge every bill on its own merits, right? You say, with this law alone, we do not serve national security, but with the whole toolbox. But we have to look specifically at this law, and this law specifically says the evaluations that it has not shown that this has made the Netherlands safer. How has the need to consider whether or not discrimination is justified been demonstrated? I just don't hear any hard answers to that, except that people haven't returned. The follow-up question has made the Netherlands safer or not? The answer to this question is no. And that's what I think it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u20	Well, I think it's being answered quite well, but Mrs Veldhoen doesn't like my answer. It's possible. Then we'll have a difference of opinion. But these are people who have not left for a holiday or for baking cookies to Syria, but for a very clear purpose. Then we carefully weigh whether these people are indeed a danger. Then we see that 14 of them are entitled to withdraw their nationality. That then also stays up with a test. And those people do not return: not legally and, as far as we and the WODC can see, not illegally either. Then I think this has made a significant contribution to protecting our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u21	Finally, Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u22	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. But there's the problem, as far as I'm concerned. The Minister says she thinks it has contributed to national security, but the evaluation says that this cannot be established. So I ask the Minister once again, even though I repeat myself: what does that prove? I always hear the same answer: from the fact that those 14 people have not returned. Firstly, that has not been established, because they may have returned to illegality. And it may also be, as Mr Janssen also says, that they do not want to return at all. So the answer to the question of what is the contribution of this specific measure to national security is not entirely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u23	I'll give you the answer again anyway. That's the fact that they're not here and they didn't return illegally, as far as we can tell. Why is it important to say that? Because there is also an international alert when these people are in this way in view. Everyone throughout the Schengen area also knows that you need to be alert. Of course, it becomes extra complicated for these people to return. So legal return has not happened, but there is also reason to repeat here that, as far as we know and the evaluation shows, this has not happened illegally either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u24	I hear the Minister say that from the fact that it has happened so little could also distract you, at least, as I think I have understood her, that this power has been used very carefully. I will tell you straight away, on behalf of my group, that I am extremely sensitive to such arguments. But of course that argument only has validity if there is also a world behind it where there are hundreds of cases where it could have been done, and if so, do something crazy ten or fifteen times has actually come to this. I am therefore curious whether the Minister can also explain to us how many cases it has been considered, and how small the final figure of 14 or 17 years will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u25	Two years ago, at the request of the House of Representatives, the full list of out-bound travellers was reviewed once again. That was a motion by VVD and I believe CDA is on whom nationality can be withdrawn. That was a clear request from the House of Representatives. I can come back to exactly how many in the second term, but there are considerably more than fourteen. That whole list had already been reviewed. This was done again at the request of the House of Representatives and not hundreds of names of people whose nationality you could withdraw. One of the important reasons is the date of entry into force of the law. That was 2017, and we know that quite a few of the people who have travelled have travelled before. That does not mean that the urgency no longer exists, as I said in my introduction. This does not mean that it is now quiet everywhere in the region and that jihadism does not have an attraction, including in our country, and that there is no concern. Those are the facts, and that's why we say: you need this in that toolbox. I'll be able to give you the exact number of that total screening later. That's 100 plus, but maybe more than that. That was asked by the House of Representatives again two years ago and reviewed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u26	You are now answering a number of questions that you would have answered at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u27	I'm trying. It's a little less flexible than I'd like, but I'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u28	I'm gonna get on the train, and then we're gonna come straight ahead to the next station. I'd like to take that careful consideration. Nevertheless, the advice of a very important party is. I assume that, in a careful consideration, the Public Prosecutor's Office is explicitly heard and weighed along, but it is always passed. What's the D.A. doing wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u29	The D.A.'s office isn't doing anything wrong. The Public Prosecutor's Office does an excellent job and gives an opinion. Mr Recourt knows that this law was also discussed in detail in the House of Representatives, saying that national security can prevail over persecution here. That is why the whole aspect of persecution and impunity that we are about to discuss is also very important. At no time has any civil servant or ruler said: being impunity is fine, let them get away with it. But that is the balance that has been made. The D.A.'s advising, there's gonna be a lot more advice, and then it's gonna be weighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u30	Perhaps you will come to that later, but can you give us a little more insight into how that consideration is going to work? If such an important advisor always does not have the right argument to convince you or your official, then there are other arguments that weigh much more heavily. I need to get more insight into what weighs the hardest. If you say that other arguments weigh more heavily by definition, we might as well let the D.A. out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u31	The fact that this balance can lead to national security taking precedence in a specific case does not mean that that advice was not valuable. In the input of several members it has come to pass that withdrawal of Dutch citizenship does not mean that trial is made impossible. You can still make that happen on the basis of exception. It is important to have those elements next to each other. Mr Recourt began in his speech that the law is a remnant of a time when it might have been necessary, where there was a lot going on and people were still living in fear. But with all due respect, I disagree with his risk assessment. The urgency is still present. It is true that the threat picture has gone from 4 to 3, fortunately, but it is still present. We see in the fireplaces what is happening, we see in our country an attraction of jihadism. I think it is very important to keep this option on the table. Mr Recourt also had a question as to whether the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship would help to maintain the situation in Syria. Doesn't it eventually lead to more damage to our country? I have just indicated in another part of the debate that the international aspect is always taken into account, even when considering or withdrawing it. The international legal order is also part of the national security strategy and has been identified as one of the six national security interests. That's always taken into account. As I have just said to Mr Dittrich, if it is really proven that it would damage our country, we are doing all this to prevent it, then you can make another decision. This is therefore considered on a case-by-case basis. Mr Janssen asked what the extension was based on. In interrupting debates just now, we talked about how to quantify the impact on national security and how to prove that something didn't happen because of something you did. This doesn't mean the effect isn't there with that. It just means that you can't quantify it and there's no exact numerical answer possible. It's not possible to determine whether an attack or a crime would have happened if you hadn't done something. This applies to almost all measures in the palette of measures we have against terrorism. I told you, none of the people have returned, legally or as far as we know, illegally. They are persons on whom an individual message of office exists and who have been found to constitute a danger to national security. That's the part that's quantifiable. I am aware that I repeat this, but it was a very specific question from Mr Janssen and that is why I wanted to name the answer separately. Then I have a question from Mr Doornhof and Mr Otten on an excellent amendment from some time ago. Thank you for this question. I see that the Secretary of State will dwell on this during his reply. Well, that's too bad. I'm very curious what the Secretary of State will say about it. Perhaps it is reasonable to say that as a Member of Parliament, I had no preference for the temporary extension. You know that the proposal from the cabinet was another one. In the end, the debate has chosen a different balance and I am standing here defending it. It is no secret that I rely on measures and instruments like this to ensure that we can keep our country safe. I think this was my first folder. I believe that Mr Otten still had a question about the number of travellers. I'm going to name it, but you can also read all this back in the messages we regularly send to the House of Representatives, the AIVD messages. Now I'm going to mention a number of numbers. If things go too fast, they can always be read back. Since 2013, 65 extra-travelers have returned. In addition, six extra-travelers were transferred to the Netherlands for trial. In the case of 24 foreigners who are still abroad, it has been decided to withdraw the Dutch citizenship in the interest of national security. Two of these repeal decisions were annulled by the court because it could not be demonstrated that these people were members of a terrorist organisation before the entry into force of this Act, 11 March 2017. That ruling led to the repeal of another five of these decisions. So all this had to do with a very practical date. Two persons whose Dutch citizenship has been withdrawn have been expelled from the Netherlands by Turkey. This has been discussed extensively in the media and in the House of Representatives. Turkey knew that those concerned no longer had Dutch nationality. The House of Representatives was informed in 2019 and in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u32	Let's talk about the numbers. We have read in the documents that the Public Prosecutor's Office has said regularly: do not withdraw, because we want to prosecute in the Netherlands. That's rejected. I asked in my first term if we know if those people have been tried elsewhere. The Minister said in an interim manner that no one wants impunity, but that is the result if they have not been tried elsewhere. I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u33	I also asked that question, specifically about the group we are talking about. I don't have an answer to that right now. Perhaps that will come in second term. I heard Mr Dittrich say in his speech that no ISs are being tried in that region. That's not entirely true. They'll be tried. The Kurds have been under trial for years. Only that doesn't happen in consultation and in collusion with us. There are several reasons for this which we will be discussing later. I would like us to be able to make agreements internationally, with European countries, there in the region, for the direction there, so that we can have the people who are affiliated with the Netherlands there in any way. But Mr Dittrich knows that it is easier said than done. Much investment has been made in recent years, but it has not been achieved. I intend to try that in the years to come. Let me ask the officials whether we know about this particular group and whether we can say that. I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u34	I got the impression that the minister was almost at the end of...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u35	...on the next tray.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u36	... was at the next tray. Let me return to the answer she gave Mr Recourt on the opinions of the Public Prosecutor. She says I'm paraphrasing: yes, it's nice that the prosecution wants to prosecute, but national security sometimes prevails. So what's the purpose of prosecuting the prosecution? That is precisely to increase security by ensuring that people who behave as criminals in VVD language are punished instead of being punished sometimes, but not always. It seems almost a subversive attitude of the State's Attorney General in which it doesn't weigh national security. Where's the distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u37	First, it was a clear ruling and determination during the handling of this law in the Dutch Parliament in 2017. It has been said that, on a case-by-case basis, this balance may be such that it is said that national security is more important here than persecution in our country. It'll prevail. You have to look at that on a case-by-case basis. We've brought five female IS suspects to the Netherlands in the last month because that's where the lawsuits were going. I cannot say anything about the nationalities, because then I would go into individual information. But it may be that there are people whose nationality has or has not been revoked. It's possible. That way, you always weigh. There is a reason why not only us but also the victims indicate: if you can, please go there and try. That's because there are the files and the crimes were committed there. That's another thing you have to weigh up. But national security can prevail. That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u38	It's about the law. I am talking about the balance, because the balance does not make itself felt. The Minister makes a balance and it is not that the balance makes itself. If the prosecutor's opinion is put aside by the minister, it seems to be almost a political consideration rather than merely on the substance. After all, it is a political view if you say: I prefer them to die there than here. Then it will be a political balance. My question to the Minister is: would it not benefit the rule of law and security, not only in the Netherlands but also abroad, now that there is no trial abroad, as we know, and that we are just being tried and punished and take responsibility for those who have their origins here? I hear that consideration almost becomes political when the prosecution is dismissed so often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u39	I would like to give Mr Janssen a little more confidence in our rule of law and the guarantees we have built up in it, including in this law. Everyone is free to oppose this law, but those safeguards are very clear. The final decision taken per individual case is also simply reviewed. It's not the minister who's gonna think about what she's gonna do. I'd like that marked here. I think it is getting fierce when it is said that it is going to be a political balance. We have safeguards and today we are discussing whether this instrument is effective or not. I think so, Mr Janssen does not think so. That's possible, but it's guaranteed. I stand before all my colleagues who have done this for me. I hope that Mr Janssen is confident that my colleague and I will do so in a good way. The political dimension seems to me to be a bit of a pollution of the debate. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u40	I do not see it as a pollution of the debate. I see it as a determination of what I hear from the highest regions of the cabinet, even in the previous period. The Minister says: Mr Janssen sees it differently. Well, Mr Janssen is not alone in that. I have just mentioned the whole pride of those who see it that way. The Minister is the one who sees things differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u41	I am going to give the Minister a chance to make a few meters, so perhaps Members would like to keep the interruptions a little shorter and more concise, and also to reduce the number slightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u42	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about trial in the region. In the past, when she was a Member of Parliament, the Minister once said something about the death penalty that would be applied in the region to Dutch extravagants. I wondered how she looked back as a minister on what she had said at the time, including in the context of this law. Does the fact, for example, that a person can be sentenced to death in the case of trial in the region mean that the balance between trial here or withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is to be considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u43	I don't think it's relevant how I look back at statements as a minister. It's relevant how I do my job now. Those are two different responsibilities. As Minister, this is what I'm saying. The current cabinet has said, which is quite clear in the coalition agreement, that we have exactly the same policy as the previous cabinet on tackling terrorists. That's very clear. This is aimed at preventing return, where possible, and achieving trial there, where possible. Mrs Veldhoen knows that the cabinet has always said then and now, and I assume that in the Netherlands we will always say: we are absolutely not in favour of the death penalty. That means that when we talk to countries about trial there, up to and including requests for legal aid, extradition, we will always say: we do not recognise the death penalty. We will always try to persuade those countries to abandon it. That's the process we're in. So, from my role as Minister of Justice and Security on behalf of the Netherlands, of course, I am going to go to the region as well. I will try to persuade that something is being set up there that we can say: it is a good thing that it is being tried there. The death penalty will not be part of that, because it will never be able to support the Netherlands. That's my role as Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u44	Mrs Veldhoen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u45	I'm glad to hear that. But does that mean, in fact, that this is what this is all about? Suppose the Public Prosecutor says "we would like to track and prosecute here" and it is likely that if someone in the region is tried, they could be sentenced to death. Is it true that the withdrawal will not take place and the primacy will be transferred to the Public Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u46	Those are things that are completely separate from each other. The D.A.'s advising. At some point the Dutchmanship is withdrawn or not withdrawn. Even so, the D.A. can prosecute. You can still then, as we have said before, I have heard several Members say that they are temporarily deviating from that and say that they can be tried here. So all these elements exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u47	Mrs Veldhoen, finally. From now on, there will be two questions in this debate, from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u48	Last time; I have a very short question. I'm just gonna open the question. Is it not the case that withdrawal takes place if there is a risk that someone in the region will be sentenced to death?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u49	Then it's on an individual level. I can check whether that is an explicit consideration, whether we know it at that level. Of course, they are also often people who are still in detention, or who are working on the dossier in a different way. I was just saying to Mr Dittrich: people are being convicted, but it is not that it is going to happen at such a rate that we think 'at least all suspects will come before a judge in the foreseeable future'. The latter would be everyone's preference, I think. So I can just ask whether that is a consideration and whether we know it so concretely at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u50	That's what you've been dealing with in criminal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u51	No, I'm gonna start now. I would come back in the second term to the number of travellers who have been screened completely. That's 100 of them. I will send that around again at the request of the House of Representatives, so we do not have to wait for the second term. Then there is Mrs Veldhoen's question about criminal prosecution. Can you explain why the importance of detection and prosecution is subordinate to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship? Actually, we've just had that discussion. The importance of criminal prosecution is, as always in the opinion of the Public Prosecutor, weighed, but it may be that a different consideration is made in an individual case. So it's not -- we just shared that -- that in advance, the importance of detection is subordinate or, by definition, considered the most important. It's just weighted. Mrs Bezaan had a question about strict implementation and enforcement. I think she's right about that. You can write down a lot of stuff and talk a lot about it, but does it happen then? She asked me: can the Minister guarantee that jihad-goers will be brought to an end and that you will take care of it with this? I can't guarantee that. Let's start with that. In view of the motion of Mr Van der Staaij and several colleagues, the cabinet is committed to the withdrawal of the Dutch identity of extravagants. We attach great importance, as has just been said, to the trial of extravagant persons suspected of terrorist offences, preferably there, and if this is the case here, in order to prevent impunity. Each time that consideration is made. Let me take last month's case, out of the five ISIS suspects. In doing so, the judge has made it very clear: either you make an effort as a Empire to bring these people here and have them tried in court, or I will cut the case. And then they get away with it with impunity. What we then do is to weigh a number of criteria. Then it is about national security, about international interests and about the safety of our people who have to go there to pick up these suspects. We are talking about a really complex balance, where there has to be an opportunity, an opportunity, to go there too, taking into account the safety of our people, and to get them out of there. That's an effort you make as a Empire to prevent them from becoming punishmentless. Why is that important? Of course you want people to do their time. At the moment when they are impunity and they still have dual nationality or only Dutch nationality, they can just walk in here when the judge says that these cases are being dropped. Then there's nothing you can do. So you can't impose a penalty and then you can't impose long-term supervision on the imposition of penalties. This means that you can also follow those involved after detention if necessary, so I will summarize it briefly. Then you can no longer use all the instruments we have. That's the risk you'd take if you said, "I hear what the judge says," but I'm not gonna bring them back. Then they'll be unpunished. That is why, as a government, we are committed to this dilemma, as we have done in recent years. I have also indicated in the Lower House, also on a question from the PVV, that we cannot rule that out for the foreseeable future. I don't know which cases are gonna come to court and I don't know what the judge's gonna say next. But this balance will always be part of that, also in the context of our national security. That's part of it. Then I'll move on. Mr Recourt says: persons who have been deprived of Dutch citizenship are deprived of the passage to the criminal court. He's asking if the Minister can tell us if we really want to. I think I just said all that. If a decision to withdraw is taken, criminal prosecution is still possible. That option still exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u52	It's possible; I know that. But is that what's gonna happen? Is that undesirable measure being suspended for a while, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u53	It's possible. You can, indeed, temporarily suspend that undesirable statement. But that has not yet happened in these specific cases. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u54	But that it can... Suppose someone just deliberately asks for it and says: I would like to appear before the Dutch judge. Will it be suspended, or is it just a theoretical possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u55	But also there you have the guarantees and the balancing again. That doesn't make up the Minister either. The judge's gonna have to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u56	Now I have to think out loud. The suspension of the undesirable measure is an administrative measure. The judge won't do that, will he? That's what the board does, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u57	You're gonna have to see what kind of case it is, what the trade-off is, who's the one that matters and what it says for national security. But that option exists. It hasn't been on the table so far, but it's possible. I think that is the most important thing in this context. Look, I get the search, too. In the end, it is always about an individual consideration, a complex consideration, where you have to use all those advices. For me, it is very important that we should at least not be deprived of 100% of the way to the criminal justice system. There's a guarantee. And when that comes on the table, we will weigh it again on the basis of all these criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u58	A very short question in connection with this. The international alert will be terminated if the nationality and the declaration are withdrawn? That is what the State at least says: the international alert and the foreign investigative authorities will all be put on hold, because nationality and that junk declaration will be withdrawn. Then you can't bring someone to justice, can you? Then you can't prosecute someone, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u59	Maybe we misunderstand each other. At the moment that nationality has been withdrawn, it is still pointed out that it is still someone you do not want to have just walked into the Schengen area. There is a reason why the person with whom the Dutchmanship has been withdrawn was spotted. So it's still a danger. The alert will only disappear if there is impunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u60	If I understand correctly from the documents, including those of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the international alert ends precisely because someone no longer has Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u61	No, no. Let me put it this way: alert will remain. Alert will only disappear if the case no longer exists. This is only happening in the case I mentioned to Mrs Bezaan, namely when we say that we are taking impunity as a consequence of the sale. If the judge says we have to get these people here in three months, we say, "We're just not gonna try." It may not work because it is not safe for our people, but that is another argument. But when we say we're just not gonna do it, there's just nothing left and the alert disappears. But in other cases, the alert will definitely remain, even if the Dutchmanship has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u62	Okay, I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u63	Yes. Then I had a question from Mr Dittrich. Why doesn't the Minister choose to be tried in the Netherlands? I think I've already responded to that. I'd prefer to go to trial there. In cases to prevent impunity, it happens where it has to and where it can, we commit ourselves to doing so. See last month's cases. In any case, I will continue to commit myself to achieving trial there, although I think that will be difficult. But I am going to ask the international coalitions, the European countries, again to look together at what we can do there. I don't think we should give up that search. Mr Dittrich had also asked if there was any early contact with the Public Prosecutor's Office. In any case where there is a possibility of withdrawal, the Public Prosecutor's Office shall be consulted. Those contacts are going very well. Is the Minister prepared to enter into talks with Western countries? Absolutely. He also said something about the climate of trial. It may be that we are just filling out something else, but I hope that in my speech I have been able to indicate what I think is important. I will also engage in discussions in the near future, for example with the European coordinator on counter-terrorism. It's been in office for four months, and it's going to the region now. I asked him to come to the Netherlands on his return to show what he found there, but also to hear what the willingness to work together on trial means. Let us then see which coalitions we can or cannot form, knowing that this has been tried over the past few years. But I think you should keep looking for that. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u64	Can I ask the Minister to inform the Chamber by letter after such contacts have taken place so that we can keep our finger on the pulse?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u65	Yeah, sure. I have also promised the House of Representatives, and I will also do so here to the House of Representatives to share the international agenda as soon as it is established. Then it's easy to follow where we're going, why and who we're talking about and also what contacts we have. I know that many European countries are struggling with the same thing. They also have to deal with much larger numbers of people than we are talking about here. So I will certainly keep the Chambers informed of developments and of the steps taken. I'm gonna do one more profit warning, even for myself: there's been a lot of investment in this over the last few years, and I know it's very difficult. But I think, given the relevance of the subject, we should keep trying. That's what I'm gonna do. In my opinion, Mr Talsma asked whether national security would no longer benefit much from arresting, trialing and, if necessary, withdrawing Dutch nationality. That's Article 14 (2). The fourth paragraph of Article 14 is the only measure to prevent it at all. I know that Mr Talsma knows that, but I am going to say again that they can come in here, that they can return. That is what we want and that is what also makes illegal return difficult. It is therefore a preventive measure. That's different from the second paragraph. But, of course, it is still an option, I am also saying to Mrs Bezaan, who I just had a conversation with. For people who are tried here and who receive an irrevocable conviction for participating in terrorist activities, you can use it and then you can withdraw nationality. What is the timetable for the bill Penalty of residence in a territory controlled by a terrorist organisation, asked Mr Arbouw. The bill is currently being held by the Upper Chamber until the newlle reaches the Upper Chamber. The novelle has just been consulted. The opinions are currently being processed. That happens quickly, so that the novelle is in the Upper Chamber as soon as possible. The bill will then be presented to the Council of State for advice through the Council of Ministers. I think I'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u66	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u67	Mr. President, I was just waiting for the cleaning. If it's all right with you, I can start now. It is, of course, very special to be standing here with my former colleagues, I must say, now. I really like the Secretary of State. But as I was sitting here this afternoon, I must honestly say that I also thought with some regularity: I would have liked to be back there with the interrupting microphones. Although I enjoy your work, I also miss your work extremely much. Having said that, I only supplement the Secretary of State on a limited number of points. Sorry, I mean, the minister. That's because the Minister called me "colleague." Of course I'm not. Mr. Chairman. The first question, by Mrs Veldhoen and Mr Recourt, was: is the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship not discrimination, because this can only be done in the case of double nationality? No, we can do this. This cannot be done on the basis of the European Treaty alone. The European Treaty states very clearly the conditions under which nationality can be withdrawn. The Treaty thus also states that it can be repealed. You too, that is not specifically you as Mrs Veldhoen, but you as Chambers of Commerce think it is possible, because it is now simply stated in Article 14 (2) of the article, which you have laid down, that you can withdraw nationality. That's what just came up. I know that Mrs Veldhoen is in a different position, but at least you, as a Chamber, think it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u68	Sorry. I am going to vote for that, because Article 14 (2) deals with the case where there is already an irrevocable ruling in a criminal case. Paragraph 4 is, of course, not the case. This concerns the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship and that you can then go to court. That is a very clear difference from paragraph 2, and there is therefore already an irrevocable ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u69	Yes, but that doesn't change your question of whether it's discrimination that you can withdraw nationality from one country and not from another. That was the question. Is it discrimination? No. One. The European Treaty says so. Two. You're also saying it's possible. In doing so, you did not declare it discriminatory as a Chamber, otherwise you would no doubt not have done so. Your point that one sits with the judge after which the verdict comes and that it comes with the other as a check-up, but that is a different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u70	It is, of course, also about the need for this measure and the safeguards that apply to it when it comes to balancing interests. The safeguards in paragraph 2 are, of course, much more robust, since there is already an irrevocable ruling than in paragraph 4. That doesn't change the balance of interests. That justification is much more secure in paragraph 2 than in paragraph 4. The question of whether it is justified certainly affects the discussion of whether there is a distinct race or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u71	I disagree with Mrs Veldhoen. Mrs Veldhoen is, of course, right that the order is the other way round. Article 14 (2) first gives the judge and then the decision. Article 14 (4) is the first decision and then the judge. However, as the Minister said in her speech, this does not mean that there are not enough safeguards. In both cases, therefore, the judge may have the final say. I would almost say that that is certainly the case with Article 14 (4) where we take the decision and then review it with the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u72	Finally, Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u73	We are probably not going to agree on this point, but the College of Human Rights and the Meijers Commission also come to the conclusion that it is not justified under the ECHR to make this distinction. So in that respect, I wonder what the Minister is basing himself on when such experts say that there is unfair discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u74	I assume you meant "State Secretary." Otherwise, I'm gonna have to keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u75	That's what we're assuming. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u76	Excuse me, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u77	Sorry, Chairman. Let there be no misunderstanding: we are indeed different from the opinions mentioned. Not only do we think that this is a desirable law, but we also think that this can be done. Again, both Chambers feel that you can deprive people of Dutch citizenship if there is a double nationality. I replied to that question in response to the question raised by Mrs Veldhoen and Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u78	One. Even if something is in the law, it can still be unjustified discrimination to its effect. So I do not follow the Secretary of State's argument directly. Two. My question to the Secretary of State is as follows. I have had this debate before. I know there are also arguments to say: "No, I think it's a tricky legal path. In fact, we want to be able to take away nationality for everyone, but because the treaty is about taking away nationality, it cannot be done for those who have only one nationality. So we only have a very small group left, mainly people with a double nationality, including the Moroccan." That may well be the legal basis, although some people think otherwise. In the case of tax avoidance, there is also a great deal to be done by law, but we do not think that is a very good idea. The government doesn't think that's a good idea either. So I actually asked a lot more for a normative point of view. Some things you just don't have to do, even if they're legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u79	You're right. There was a difference between your question and Mrs Veldhoen's question: no misunderstanding. I do not know whether there is a majority in this Chamber that believes that people should be deprived of Dutch citizenship, even if that is their only nationality. I'm not ruling out that there are people in this room or in the other room who feel that way. Only, in that you and I are limited by European regulations, by international regulations. We must not deprive someone of Dutch citizenship if that person becomes stateless. In my view, that is a position that you and the cabinet share. But it's okay. In this case, I find it normative and also moral that we can do this, especially given the nature of the behaviour that people have shown. Otherwise, I would not be introducing this to you, along with Mr Yeșilgöz. Mr Janssen's literal text was: "as the VVD calls it "criminal behavior." I believe that there is unanimity in this Chamber on the fact that it is reprehensible what these people are doing. You don't have to be a member of the SP or the VVD for that. So it is not the case that the Dutchmanship is taken from you at the time when you exhibit criminal behavior. No, we're talking about very serious behavior here. It is also very limited in application. That is what we say: we think that is morally acceptable. We may disagree with Mrs Veldhoen and some others, but if you ask for a moral judgment, what Mr Recourt did, then the answer is: yes, we think this is moral. In fact, we think this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u80	It's not about the nature and seriousness of the criminal behavior. It concerns me that the question "do you want to punish or not?" is taken as a starting point. That's what I noticed. That is why I referred yesterday, because it is probably known, to the sentence: anyone who behaves criminally must be punished. That will be released when you say: yes, but not here for a moment, because we prefer it where there is no punishment. That was my point. We are no different in our assessment of the seriousness of the behaviour, because it must be prevented and combated on all sides. As far as the SP is concerned, this must also be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u81	Let there be no misunderstanding: I was hoping to say that you and I do not disagree on the fact that it is undesirable and reprehensible. The cabinet and the SP differ in this respect, but I do not think it is just the cabinet and the total Chambers. Turning to the CTIVD, a question from Mr Recourt. The task as such is not deleted. That was the idea, but that was not ultimately done by the Van der Werf amendment. In any event, the committee's supervision has been maintained, albeit with a different interpretation. You have also been able to read this in the documents, which are no longer specific in terms of efficiency and proportionality. But in general the task of the committee is retained. In addition, there is, of course, in the specific case, judicial supervision, because we also automatically refer every decision to a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u82	Can the Secretary of State explain what remains of the CTIVD, if efficiency and proportionality, you said, I believe, fall out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u83	Well, it's a good thing you're asking. That happened to be my next answer, because Mr Otten had specifically asked for it in his first term. One. The CTIVD may, as part of its existing task, review the performance of the AIVD's official messages. That's one. And two. For example, the CTIVD also monitors the unambiguous interpretation of the concept of "national security." It shall also ensure the general functioning of the intelligence services. Technically, there are two. I don't mean just the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u84	And the STUDY. In any case, it is good to hear that the clarity of the concept of national security can also be assessed by the CTIVD. That was one of the big concerns. But then the question remains as to why these other two elements were actually taken out. I think the whole idea that you're taking away oversight powers... it might be a very good idea, but basically, I get a little suspicious. Then I think: oh, are they too critical?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u85	If I'd been standing there, I'd have realized you'd be asking a question like that. At the same time, that was absolutely not the intention. In the original discussion the cabinet said: no, you should not invest this task with the CTIVD, because it is not its original task. That's what happened in the end. You know that. But the original task of this committee is to look at the two intelligence services. This task, which came into play in the 2017 Act, is to some extent an improper task of this committee. That was the background. So it had nothing to do with: we don't want critical followers. I think it's good to always have critical followers anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u86	I'm having second thoughts about what I'm going to say. You said earlier: Parliament wanted it to be so, so it is. This is where Parliament wanted the CTIVD to look a bit wider. On the other hand, if Parliament agrees to a reduction in the role, it will be done with that. Actually, I don't have any more questions. Excuse me, chairman, this was thinking aloud.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u87	Thank you for this interruption. Secretary of State, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u88	So I don't have to answer the question I didn't ask, I guess. Then I'm going to see Mr. Janssen. It was mentioned for a while in the debate with the Minister: the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship should have been permanent. That was your argument, given the gravity of the rule of law. If you do it, because I know you're against it... no, no misunderstanding. I didn't mean to say the SP is for this. But if you do it, then it's structural... yes, exactly. We agreed with you, of course. Only, the House of Representatives in this case feels differently. If the House of Representatives feels otherwise, this will lead to an amendment and thus to an amendment of the law that we are now presenting. Then we have no choice but to defend that amended bill with you. We cannot ask you to amend it again. We're just supposed to be... even stronger, I think even today... I'm sure, because I was here. You voted that legislative proposals should be submitted to you, which have already been amended, with the amendments, rather than keeping them behind. Then we are also supposed to discuss and defend that text here with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u89	A very short question. Has the government advised against the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u90	I wouldn't know that by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u91	Just for a minute. The Minister now says: we wanted this. The question is then: did you go down struggling or did you just "judge Chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u92	Again, I don't know. I have to answer that in my role as an official, but as a human being I just don't know the answer. But no doubt... I can see him coming in on the app right now. Not yet? Okay, he's in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u93	You have a group app, apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u94	It was "Judge Room." Yes. Anyway... Then Mr Talsma. To be honest, even when you started talking, I thought to myself, "Oh, how I would like to have a lot of debates with you," given your introduction and your resume, I would almost say. I hope to be able to have a debate with you on a number of occasions. I loved that. I'm not supposed to do that, Mr. Chairman, but it's a personal debris. How does the cabinet assess subsidiarity and proportionality? I referred earlier to the European Convention on Nationality. This only allows the withdrawal of nationality in a number of cases. This is a case in which it can be specific, namely at a time when the essential interests of a Member State are being harmed. I think we agree that joining a terrorist organisation such as the organisations involved is specifically directed against what you and I and we all stand for as governments. When it comes to subsidiarity, it has already been said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and this is the only measure we can take to prevent people from legally earning our country. The withdrawal of a passport is not an option to prevent people from entering our country, because even if we have withdrawn the passport, we are obliged, on the basis of international regulations, to bring your fellow countrymen back to our country. The only way to prevent people from coming to our country... you have just seen the discussion between the Minister and, among others, Mr Janssen. The law is also meant to prevent people from coming back. The only way to achieve this is through the withdrawal of nationality, so the principle of subsidiarity is also respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u95	The reason I asked the question was, of course, also related to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, where an earlier part, about entering foreign military service, is specifically enumerated to participate in military acts directed against the Kingdom et cetera; you know the text at least as well as I do. That suggests, of course, that the state law actually creates some kind of association on that point. Hence my question, of course. So there is a real demand for military action against the Kingdom. In this context, I would like to see how the Secretary of State appreciates proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u96	I believe that the Minister also said: one does not join IS to bake cookies. I think that was the literal example she used. These people join these three organisations not only to create a society that you and I disgust with each other, I would almost say, but they are also acting on it. That's what that organization's dealing with. Then when it comes to the question "have they done individual cases that are punishable?': That's what the judge's gonna judge when it comes to that. Now you can walk to the microphone and say 'but that cannot be dealt with as', but that is not true, because the Minister has said that the junk declaration can also be temporarily lifted, so that there could possibly be prosecution. But the simple fact that you are joining us, not you at least, but that we are joining these organizations, we find it so reprehensible that is, I think, just the word we have to use here, which we say: then you are no longer wanted in our country. And: the only way to shape the desire that you do not come into our country is by this law. Of course, Mr Talsma also had, I would almost say 'of course', a question about legal protection. Yeah, there's been a full review. He happened to mention an interesting case, namely the case in which the client did not say that the entire file should not be shared, but in which the lawyer said: I cannot say on behalf of my client that the entire file should be shared. In this case, it was the lawyer on behalf of the client who said no. But we said 'we' in this case is, of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office, so the Dutch society can share the whole file. That is also explicitly the intention. The explicit intention is that it is not merely a legality test, but that the administrative judge can and may review the entire file as far as we are concerned. But, yes, there are two parties to such a case. The opposite can indeed say "I'm not working on this" for any reason. That's either her or him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u97	That's why the other side doesn't get to read that file itself. I know this kind of thing. You're getting some sort of secret process. The judge knows something, the government knows something, but the other side thinks: what are we talking about, so how am I supposed to fight it? I suppose that's the case, because that's always the reason. If it's any different, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. It does make legal protection a little vulnerable if two of the three parties know what it's about and whoever lands it doesn't know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u98	I don't know why the lawyer... Well, I do know why the lawyer... the lawyer said I can't say this on behalf of my client right now. I don't know what the client thought, because the lawyer didn't know, so let alone know. I can't get into the motives of someone who says they don't want to. I refer to the specific case Mr Talsma mentioned. In it, it was the lawyer who said that on behalf of the client. And why? You don't know that, I don't know, we can speculate about that, but in my opinion we shouldn't. And certainly not in a specific case. In any case, I know that we say: the administrative judge can take the full test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u99	Then let us not enter this particular case. The only case in which permission should be given to allow the court to look at the content of the documents is if confidentiality is invoked by the government. In other cases that permission does not need, because then all the documents are always with the other party. In short, it is about inequality here. It's nice that the judge can see by consent, but it's still much better for your defense if you know what you're being accused of saying: that's right-- and that's not why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u100	The complex thing is, of course, that Mr Recourt and I do not think that you should give state secrets to people who join such organisations. I don't think you're in favour of giving state secrets to these people. Of course, that makes it complicated. We give the file minus the state secrets, but we give the administrative judge in your eyes, and I think it is right that we should be able to see the state secrets that you and I do not know. I understand the tension, but you and I will not argue for it, I suppose, to say, give those state secrets to these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u101	Does that mean, therefore, I ask the Secretary of State, that the wording I quoted in my first term, "trying to work without paper," I took it on the screen for a moment, namely, "that any decision to withdraw is fully and without reservation reviewed by the administrative judge," at least, I would ask the whole of The Hague, for some nuance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u102	I don't know if I understand your question. Sorry, I don't know if I understand Mr. Talsma's question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u103	The Secretary of State said: It sometimes happens that the judge cannot see the underlying documents. At least that's true in case I told you. In that case, this led to the court saying my paraphrase "well, then we have to assume the accuracy of the statement of office, which I did not see as a judge." But that means, in fact, that the wording, 'that any decision to withdraw is subject to a complete review without exception and without reservation', appears to be incorrect in this case alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u104	Let me go with you, because I get your point. It can be verified, with the exception that it does not happen at the time the counterparty does not want it to happen, as you and I would almost say, from a different point of view, because the counterparty has the right to say: then not. So you're right when you say I'd be more nuanced now. I'm sure you're right about that. This is without prejudice to our ability to do so, unless the person we wish to condemn and who has left the Netherlands has said 'I reject this rule of law; I am going to another, in this case criminal, criminal, terrorist organisation'. Then we say: you still retain your rights to say "no, you can't see the whole file." But you can protest against it if the judge doesn't fully understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u105	Finally, Mr. Talsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u106	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. On the adage "it is possible" I would like to come back in the second term. But does the Secretary of State agree with me that, in the context of legal protection, this is in stark contrast to what the same person, then suspect, would have been entitled to if he or she had been prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u107	What I have understood, however, is that I am here with you, of course, on slippery ice, given your past, it is also that in regular criminal cases the defence and also the prosecutor have no access to the information behind the notice. So in that sense, it doesn't differ from regular criminal cases. Thank God you're not going anywhere. Apparently, that's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u108	That does not apply to Mrs Veldhoen. Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u109	Not so much on this point, but I also made a comment in the first period on Article 8 of the Treaty on the limitation of statelessness, which means that withdrawal can only take place if all legal remedies have been exhausted. The College of Human Rights also points out that the administrative procedure after the expiry of the Convention is not sufficient. Can you comment on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u110	The moment we declare 14.4 applicable, the corridor to the judge is open against that. Is that a good line? Well, you know what I mean. This means that all steps can then be taken, which also comply with Article 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u111	In my view, it is precisely the crux that can be withdrawn only after the whole process of justice has taken place, and not that withdrawal is taking place and then... That is precisely the criticism of the College of Human Rights: that you have an administrative procedure, surrounded by fewer guarantees, after completion, rather than a criminal procedure, with all guarantees, prior to the withdrawal. That is, of course, a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u112	We did not dispute at the beginning of this argument that there is a difference between 14.2 and 14.4. In both cases the decision is taken by the Minister and in both cases the judge is the judge. Only, in this case, you are right: the order is the other way round; the minister takes the decision and then the judge checks. But that simply leaves the legal remedies open to those who are concerned. In that sense, therefore, I disagree with the Human Rights College on the interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u113	Finally, Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u114	Yeah, finally. Well, I guess I'm curious. You say: I disagree with the College of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u115	The cabinet, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u116	Yes, the cabinet disagrees. But then I wonder what that is based on. If you look strictly legally at the matter, I think you should come to the conclusion with the College of Human Rights that it is contrary to that, because it is not a pre-trial procedure and surrounded by all guarantees. So I would like to hear the motivation on the basis of which the Minister says that there is no conflict between Article 14 (4) and Article 8 of the Treaty on the limitation of statelessness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u117	Look, in criminal justice... No, let me confine myself to administrative law, to prevent those who know more from correcting me. In administrative law, it is customary for the board to take the decision and then be reviewed by the judge. This is the usual practice in administrative law. This is an administrative act. The administrative decision will then be submitted to the court, as we do by administrative decisions. This applies in this case to a very specific situation, namely to deprive someone of Dutch citizenship. But it also applies to all the other administrative decisions we take. The decision is taken first by the administrative body and then by the administrative court.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u118	Mrs Veldhoen, I actually have to refer you to your second term, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u119	Maybe for a little while. That was not an answer to my question. My question was: can you justify why the Cabinet considers that Article 14 (4) we are talking about is not contrary to Article 8 of the Treaty on the prevention of statelessness? Because that's what the College of Human Rights also says. That says: it is contrary to that, because there is no procedure prior to that withdrawal. On what basis does the cabinet base the view that there is no conflict with that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u120	You already mention the name of the treaty. The name of the treaty is that it is a treaty to combat statelessness. We are not creating a stateless situation here. May I be clear on that, I suppose. We only do this to people who don't become stateless because of this. That's one. Two: there are sufficient safeguards, namely that an independent judge can test whether what we have decided is correct. The judge shall, after the decision has been taken by the director, judge as the administrative judge. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u121	Thank you, Secretary of State. We are now at the second term on the side of the Chamber. Mrs Veldhoen wishes a short suspension, I think. Or can I give you the floor right away? I see you're raising a finger, but I'm not sure what you mean by that. Can I give you the floor? In fact, you have another interruption. Then the secretary of state's office has to go back. If you want to interrupt the Secretary of State, you can. Then I'll call him back. There he is. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u122	Excuse me. I actually wanted to come back to an interruption I made to the Minister of Justice and Security. It's about the little debate we had on the international alert. I said I'd come back to that. I would nevertheless like to draw your attention to the conclusion of the opinion of the Public Prosecutor. I can read it all out, but given the time, I won't. The Public Prosecutor's Office also concludes that the international alert will be terminated if a whole procedure is followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u123	Whoa, wait a minute. Then we'll have to clean the speaker chair first, because we're still in corona time. So I'm gonna see if the Secretary of State can answer this or if the Minister can go into it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u124	It was my request to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u125	Oh, yeah, exactly. Then that's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u126	Whether the Minister can come back in the second term at the end of the letter from the Public Prosecutor's Office. My question was about the international alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u127	I see the Minister nodding, so we'll record for the Acts that that's going to happen. We are now at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Veldhoen on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry for the confusion of just now, but I just wanted to clear it up. We are dealing here today with one of the first laws of this new coalition. It is a law on which all experts say it is discriminatory. The law only applies to people of dual nationality. Since 2017, the law has only been applied to Dutch people with a surname that indicates a non-Western origin. The College of Human Rights concludes that this law distinguishes between origin and ethnicity and therefore race. And that while the coalition agreement states, and I quote: "We want everyone in the Netherlands to be free. ...free of discrimination and racism. ...That's why we're pursuing an active anti-racism policy." As I argued in my first term, a distinction by race according to the European Court of Human Rights is only justified if there are important reasons for this. A measure leading to such a distinction must be necessary, and the effectiveness of the measure must be beyond doubt; I have just said it. That is not the case here. It has not been established that the law does what it has to do, namely to make the Netherlands safer. That's what the evaluations show. Thus, Article 14 (4) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap is contrary to the principle of anti-discrimination. In my first term, I have considered it in detail and I have also interrupted my colleagues on this point. The quality of legislation is at stake, there is no need for it. As has been said, it cannot be demonstrated that the purpose of a safer Netherlands is achieved by this law. The law is contrary to the Constitution, to the ECHR and to the IVBPR, and, in my view, to the Treaty on combating statelessness. I have just put that forward in an interrupting debate. He's standing in the way of detection and prosecution. Implementing agencies, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the AIVD are extremely critical. As far as I am concerned, the directors have not been able to justify who thinks this law is a good idea, except for the cabinet itself. However, this law is going to pass, even in this Chamber where we have to check on the quality of legislation. We're going to pass this law in this Chamber anyway because of political opportunity. In my view, this is too limited a task. We have a job to do, and that is to review the legislation for legality, enforceability and feasibility. During the debate on the declaration of government last week, some warned that the First Chamber should not be too political. The chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats said, I quote: 'The focus of the debate here, apart from politics, can mainly be placed on the legal and qualitative side, with special attention to the question of whether policy is feasible'. I would just like to draw attention to all the opinions of the implementing organisations, which are really very critical and say: do not do it. My group notes today that the words of the debate last week are actually hollow. This Chamber adopts a law which is legally inappropriate on purely political grounds. As I said in my first term, my group will not support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u129	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief, as you're used to me. Thank you to the Minister for her comprehensive answer to my question. I understand her answer, but that does not mean that I fully agree with her in this regard. Despite the fact that this bill does not go far enough for the PVV, we will vote in favour of this extension, as I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u131	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan, for this explanation of vote. Then we go to Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The mic's already working. I can't go that fast, which is why in three minutes the next thing. My group, too, has difficulty with the test we have to take: feasibility, legality and enforcement. First of all, the claim that the cabinet can rightly make, namely to prevent 14 legal returns. That's as far as I can tell, because you don't know if that would have happened. Anyway, that 14 times could be just once enough, but it's thin in numbers. I agree with what Mrs Veldhoen said about feasibility. All implementing authorities have major problems with the law. I would like to make a more specific reference to legal protection. This remains a problem of administrative law, and the Secretary of State has not been able to convince us. If you're adversely affected by the decision, you're facing a powerful dilemma. Or you give permission that the classified information is only known to the judge, but then you can't tell yourself where it isn't, because you don't know it. Or you don't give permission, and the judge will explain it to your disadvantage. That's the choice. That's an impossible choice. I understand the dilemma that you don't want to give secret information, but it limits you very much to criminal law. Yes, it is true that the information under the post is not clear, not even for the criminal court, but it is also not evidence and can at most be initial information. With the criminal court, the government has to expose itself with the buttocks: this is the information we have and then someone can defend themselves against it. That is a much better guarantee of justice. Time is moving fast. As far as Syria is concerned, too, the national security test is being carried out. I agree with Mr Dittrich that this is a limited test. National security also includes the international legal order. So even if it becomes more unsafe in Syria, France, Morocco, the Netherlands will have to take care of that. Finally. I also follow the government's reasoning in terms of figures. Zero suspension of the junk declaration is not a very effective means of bringing proceedings here in the Netherlands. Then the conclusion can only be that there is no active wish for trial in the Netherlands. That is not the case, as has been said a few times, because the aim is to prevent return. And I'm guessing temporary return, too, because if you didn't, you'd be putting energy into that as a government. In short, all things considered, I fully understand the dilemma of combating terrorism and enhancing national security, but you must use the right means to do so. This doesn't seem to be the right tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u133	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Then I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Dittrich on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to both rulers in their first debate here in the Upper Chamber. I have a few comments to make. When it comes to the withdrawal of nationality and the junk declaration, the Minister said that a careful consideration of all kinds of interests is being made. I specifically asked how this would work when it comes to other countries and the international legal order. The Minister would come back to that in the second term, so I await that answer. The Public Prosecutor's Office has said about 17 people that they should be prosecuted in the Netherlands, but the Cabinet has said that they do not want to do so because of a certain consideration. I keep finding these considerations a kind of black box, because we can't really see how that all went in his work. The question was: were they prosecuted elsewhere? Because we want to fight impunity. The Minister said she's going to give figures on it in the second term. So I am also waiting for that answer. I was pleased that the Minister said: I am going to find an international coalition to see how we can deal with this problem properly with other countries. The Minister has undertaken to send a letter to the First Chamber on this subject as soon as more information is available. I accept that. The Minister said to consult the Public Prosecutor in good time in each case. I had also asked whether, in cases where criminal law is concerned, the judge takes account of an undesirable opinion and a withdrawal of nationality. Is that a reduction in the penalty for the person concerned? Mr. Chairman. That leads me to my conclusion. We note that all experts, for example the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Human Rights College, say that this is not a good law. The evaluation was not optimal either. It cannot be said that this bill will make the Netherlands safer. We as the First Chamber must test on the basis of quality, legality, enforceability and feasibility. Having heard everything, but still waiting for the Minister of Justice and Security's answers, I will advise my group to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u135	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Janssen of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I'm taking the kids to school by car, because near the school, it's way too dangerous with all those cars. This is a classic example of a circular reasoning, which my thoughts during this debate have often been based on. I am looking in particular at the justification given of the 14 who have not returned. I'm working on a thesis from the University of Leiden. If I came up with such a reasoning, not even to my supervisor but to a colleague at all, he'd say, "What the hell are you thinking?" It is a finding that those fourteen have not returned. We don't know what's behind that. In this way, the cause and effect cannot be linked, while the cabinet always does. It is presented by the Cabinet as the most important ground, as proof, that the law works. We don't know. The cause and effect are therefore not clear at all. I want closure. I asked whether the amendment was dissuaded or not. I asked for a reason. Why? Because it's about the Justice team in broad as guardian of our rule of law. Such severe measures I have argued a number of times should not be included in a temporary measure. What I would have liked to have seen was that the cabinet had shared that you should actually make these measures permanent, not from the point of view of content, but from the thought that you do not want such heavy measures in a temporary law. I have found that it has not been part of the debate in the House of Representatives, which is always referred to. I would have liked the guardians of our rule of law in the House of Representatives to have said: we are going to discourage this amendment, because we believe that, because of the rule of law, you should not put such heavy measures into a temporary law, and that is why we want it permanently. Having said that, I look forward to further discussions with the Justice team over the next three years. It will not be surprising that my group will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u137	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Talsma has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the answer, I say in the direction of the two directors. He was benevolent and passionate. I really appreciate that. At the same time, as I said to the Secretary of State, I noticed that the term "it is possible" was a bit of an answer, how enthusiastic I am about it. Temporary lifting of the undesirable statement? I may have heard the Minister say two or three times. Following the D.A.'s advice? It's possible. Application of Article 14 (2) of the Rijkswet to the Netherlandserschap? An option. Honestly, that made me a little restless. I hope there is a second deadline, so there is another possibility that we may hear a little more from the Minister and the Secretary of State. It may be, a temporary lifting of the undesirable statement. But why doesn't it happen and in what cases would it happen? All those D.A.'s advices, never followed. When would that happen? What else is the D.A. gonna do? There is nothing wrong, it was the answer to Mr Recourt's question. Well, that sounds nice, but what better way to get the advice followed once, if only once? What's it gonna be like? It's more than an option, I say in the direction of the cabinet. And the application of Article 14 (2) therefore first prosecute, punish, execution, etc., and then the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. An option "You will be thanked very much "But why isn't it used? Why isn't it the default, the starting point? Why don't we start with that? I would very much like to hear from the Minister and the Secretary of State. Finally. I sat down, I say in the direction of the Secretary of State, because my interruptions had come to an end. I wasn't allowed anymore. But Mr Recourt pointed out that in criminal law things really are a bit different with the ministry report. There either everyone gets the notice or no one gets it. So there's no selection at the gate. Moreover, that message of office was, of course, verified in advance by the National Officer for Counter-Terrorism. They are designated and authorised under the law. And it's very limited in use in criminal justice. If it is used as evidence, as evidence in writing in criminal proceedings, it is indeed for everyone and it should never be the only basis for a criminal conviction. Of course, that's really different here. Because this is indeed the only basis. It is also only available to those who make the decision and, with a bit of luck, if the lawyer agrees, for the others. And then it's still just for the judge. In short, we look forward with interest to the second deadline and the answer, but our concerns have not yet been resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u139	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. Then I give the floor to Mr Doornhof, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. The following was important to see. The work of rulers means, on the one hand, that they are defending such a bill here, but, on the other hand, that they are convinced that you are dealing with an essential problem, that you really want to deal with it and that you want to fight that terror. Both rulers will radiate that. I think it is important to have said that, because of course everything falls or stands for the implementation of this law. Do you dare to seize that power and do you dare to make that difficult assessment, as the Minister has explained, and do you dare to protect our society from such people? So I also wish you every success in the further implementation of that law. We have seen that the previous Minister has already used this power several times. On the question of how things stand with the work of international trial, I say the following. It is important that this is really good. In reply to Mr Dittrich's question, I am pleased that you have promised to actively inform the Chambers so that we can keep a finger on the wrist. My first term has also been devoted to that last point, in terms of whether or not this law is permanent. I must once again join Mr Janssen in saying that at some point you must also dare to make a choice. The quality of legislation means that you do not pour everything into temporary arrangements. On that point, I would like to say that you have been honest with the Minister through the President. You say that this should have been permanent as far as I am concerned. Here's what I'm saying. You, at least in the previous cabinet, have put our Chamber behind us a little bit in order to deal with this matter a little more vigorously. Should you have any ideas for a permanent legislative proposal, I would say to you: start it in good time. I would say that this is also possible during this term of office. So far. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u141	Thanks to Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u142	Mr. Chairman. Just as the Minister had just done a fair debomination, we would have preferred this law to have become permanent, in the interests of national security. This is also in line with the Yeşilgöz/Van Toorenburg motion of 12 November 2020. But that's not in there right now. We thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. As far as our group is concerned, they have been adequately answered. Our group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u143	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mr Arbouw of the VVD Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. It is certainly not easy, after asking such a whole barrage, to pick that up in such a first debate. But I think you got through that well. In any case, we as VVD are very satisfied with that. The advantage of cutting up the debate is that we had the first time yesterday... also gives us time to reflect again. After all, that is the main task of the First Chamber: reflection, and look again closely at the quality of legislation. So I also read through last night what the experts indicated, what the Council of State indicated, what the prosecutors indicated, what the implementing organisations indicated. When I heard the debate and the criticism that some groups had, I wondered: did I see it wrong or weighed it? I am now working at an implementation organisation myself, so I have some feeling about it. When I look at the answers that the Minister and the Secretary of State have just given, I feel strengthened in how we, as a group, have appreciated this and how I put it in the first term. I would like to refer to Mrs Veldhoen's criticism, who also referred to comments made by my group chairman. We say: this is not about it being just politically invested. We do not consider the legislation to be undervalued at all. In my view, when it comes to the weighting of this legislation, it is ultimately a matter of giving a very different value to the urgency of the legislative proposal as a VVD group. If you look at the threat picture, if you read it correctly and let it work on you and look at the urgency that emanates from it, then everything must be aimed at protecting national security. I really disagree with Mrs Veldhoen on this. Mrs Veldhoen puts the advocates of this bill in the corner: it's just politics and they don't look very closely at the law, because it's quantitatively undersized, you see? And if the implementing organisations have strong criticism of this, then you should always go along with it. Then I think: well, I think we have a responsibility to weigh that independently and to look at it carefully. In the end, we come to a different judgment than Mrs Veldhoen. Of course, that's fine in the end. But I see Mrs Veldhoen wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u145	I don't just feel addressed, but I think I'm gonna be, too. So I want to ask a question anyway. You understand that a political weighting is being made. But can Mr Arbouw then mention three implementing organisations or experts who give a positive opinion on this law? Can he indicate which elements are being assessed positively? Indeed, the law itself is not qualitatively inadequate, because that is only two pages. Technically, there's nothing wrong with that. But it is precisely the opinions of all those involved that are below that are extremely critical. Can you give me three examples of experts or implementing organisations saying: this is a law that we can work with in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u146	If you interrupt the speaker or a colleague, you can use that microphone for that. Then you don't have to wallow in all kinds of wokles. That's bad for your back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u147	Thank you. I understand that Mrs Veldhoen is doing so. Like I just said, I've read it back one more time and looked at it again. If the State says so, then I would also like to take a look at that. Mr Talsma has discussed in detail what value we must attach to it. But what matters in the end is not numerically counting how many supporters and how many opponents there are and then saying: that is the judgment of the First Chamber. Ultimately, it's about: what do you have to say about the substance of this law and what does that mean for such an organisation? Think about that for a second. Is it feasible? What are they running into? Can we facilitate this? That is what I think has been discussed in the debate in the House of Representatives. If we then interpret it as a group, as a VVD, then we find that urgency in terms of legislation as we deal with it today, but also in terms of legislation that is still coming, it is important for us to have these measures quickly in the toolbox in order to have an adequate response to these threats. It is not for nothing that other European countries do the same thing and have this kind of legislation in their toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u148	I do not hear a direct answer to my question as to which organisations have taken a positive view. I also pointed out yesterday that, of course, we have adopted legislation before, and all the organisations said, "Don't do it." I mentioned nitrogen and the premium affair, which was highly critical. We have lessons to learn from that. That's the point I've been trying to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u149	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u150	That is why I keep pointing out: show me who is positive about this law. I have to say that I really haven't gotten an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u151	Mrs Veldhoen, I fully agree with you. I also said yesterday in my first term that we need to learn from that, that we need to see what that means for our work and how we treat such laws, whether we see them well and talk about them with each other. I think that's what we're doing right now. That's very nice. But when it comes to the motions that have been raised this afternoon on the declaration of government, which have not been adopted in the House of Representatives and which we are going to do a little bit more about, that is politics. I agree with you that we should not do that in the First Chamber. We must, in particular, look at the quality of legislation and give an opinion on it. I have one more question for the Minister. We discussed that we would have preferred a permanent law. It's not that now. This was also discussed in the House of Representatives. We're gonna have to start evaluating soon. How can we, according to the Minister, best organise this evaluation so that we can make better statements about the effectiveness of this law in five years' time and how does that fit in with the total of the measures? I think it is important that we can at least make the choice between either a permanent law or no law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u152	Does that mean you're at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u153	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u154	I have a very brief question for Mr Arbouw. Why would Mr Arbouw prefer a permanent law? Is that from the content or from the point of law, as I just said?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u155	That is because I foresee that we must be able to implement this type of legislation quickly. I don't expect that threat to come to an end in the foreseeable future. So it's from the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u156	Then I'll find it's from the content. Mr Arbouw says: yes, especially not politically, but from the point of view of content. That's one. But that's just one of the parts. Shouldn't the rule of law also be a balancing factor for Mr Arbouw?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u157	Of course it always is. It is a bit the same as the debate with Mrs Veldhoen on discrimination. Of course, it's a point that makes a distinction between people who have one passport and people who have two passports. But in the end, we weigh national security. The importance of this is greater than the substantive issue of discrimination. But I totally agree with you that you need to look beyond the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u158	I didn't make the point of discrimination. I was just talking about the broader issue of the rule of law, about the inclusion of such heavy measures in temporary laws. I would like to draw attention to that, including Mr Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u159	No, but we totally agree that you want this kind of heavy legislation to be permanent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u160	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Secretary of State and Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I suspect I can now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security. That is indeed the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u161	Thank you very much, also for the supplementary questions and for Mrs Bezaan for the explanation of vote; that is a nice one. First of all, I would like to ask a few questions which have just been asked, and then I would like to touch on the commitment I made in my first term to consider a few more points in the second period. I would like to thank Mr Arbouw for explaining the weighting. I think that is indeed a lot more complex than to say in the end: it is a political position. I share the concerns about the evaluation. It is very good to see how it can be arranged in such a way that everyone will at least say: I can continue with this evaluation. We need to have that conversation with the WODC. I'm not gonna tell you that, but we're gonna watch that together. When more is known about this, that will of course come your way. Mr Recourt pointed out that I believe that international aspects should be much more relevant to national security. I hope I have been able to explain a little that it really does matter, even though Mr Recourt will not be a fan of this law, of this proposal. National security is wider than what the term merely suggests. Mr Dittrich and Mr Doornhof spoke on the international agenda. I look forward to sharing that with them here at least, and I am sure that we will be able to consider it at some point. It would be very nice if there were some real follow-up, so I could come and defend it here. Anyway, I already gave the profit warning. Mr Dittrich asked: in how many cases has a withdrawal led to impunity? We cannot say with certainty whether in all cases where the Dutch Federation has been withdrawn pursuant to Article 14, fourth paragraph, there is a question of trial by local authorities. This is what I suspected in my initial reply, and this is confirmed by the experts who are watching and advising us down the road. Due to the security situation on the ground, it is very difficult to follow that closely and to get information about the trial. The trial will take place, but it is very difficult to follow exactly how it happens. Nor can I say whether other countries have initiated criminal proceedings against individual travellers. I would like to stress that the cabinet wants to prevent them from remaining unpunished. So we're gonna do the international agenda. If I'm going to read the rest of the answer, I think I'm going to repeat myself. But we can't say this for sure. I think that's the most important part of the answer. Mr Dittrich also specifically asked about contact with other countries in the balance of interests. As has just been discussed, it can be done in different ways. Under a withdrawal under the fourth paragraph of Article 14, there is often a notice from the AIVD. I cannot, of course, say to what extent the AIVD has coordinated this with other countries. I don't know that much either. I don't need to know that at all. But there is, of course, concrete coordination here, because the AIVD also looks at this internationally. Information from other countries can also be used in the definition of nationality. In the withdrawal procedure, the IND does not contact foreign nationals by default, but the draft note is submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If necessary, contact will be made there again. So there are different channels. In doing so, it can be constantly examined whether there is coherence and whether there is a need for coordination, let me put it this way if it concerns several nationalities. Mrs Veldhoen specifically asked about the imposition of the death penalty, namely whether and how it is taken into account. As all the information... In fact, I have to say the other way around: all the information that is known is taken into account. If there is information to show that there is a risk of the death penalty, it is, of course, on the table. That is one of the aspects. It is fair to say that this information is often unknown. Of course, that has to do with the complexity there. The risk of the death penalty is therefore not a standard part of the review framework, but at the moment we know it is part of it. Then Mr Talsma. He asked about the number of 100 following the motion of the VVD and the CDA. Perhaps it is good to add that the AIVD is constantly paying attention to new information. Should the weighting or the review change, this will be reviewed, but this really needs to be done on the basis of new posts. That is factual information. I've got another one. If I may answer that immediately, Mrs Veldhoen can respond to that, if she so wishes. This is another reaction towards her. I think there was confusion about the different possibilities for alerting. It is true that withdrawal does not have a negative impact on the European alert. It's standing up. These persons have already been reported in criminal proceedings. This alert exceeds a foreign legal alert. Then there is only one alert system visible, namely in the Schengen Information System. It also includes the reason for this. So the moment you withdraw nationality, we're not gonna lose the alert. I'm sure it's gonna stay up. I was still guilty of that answer to Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u162	And that puts you at the end of your second term, Minister? Mrs. Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u163	I have two questions. First of all, on the death penalty. I hear the Minister say: if we have any signs of that, they are on the table and they are part of the weighting. But my question was: what is happening? What's the outcome of that weighing? In my view, I asked whether, if it turns out that trial in the region could lead to the death penalty, that could be a reason not to withdraw Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u164	That situation has not so far occurred, because we do not have all that information. It's very difficult for me. I shouldn't be doing it either. It does not have to be difficult or easy, but I do not have to speculate here on what decision can be taken if such a situation occurs in the future. We have been talking all afternoon about the complexity and the consideration of many different factors, but it will be on the table clearly. The position of the cabinet is clear, but the situation has not so far occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u165	I can imagine the Minister saying she doesn't want to speculate, but I think it's very important to get an answer to the question. Suppose a Dutchman is at risk of being sentenced to death in the region, are we, as a country, prepared to withdraw from the Netherlands, with the result that someone might be tried in the region and get the death penalty there? I think that is a very important political question, also in the context of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u166	It's an important one. In politics, I've learned never to go into questions like that. I certainly shouldn't do that as a minister. I certainly shouldn't speculate. It's just one of the aspects. It'll be taken into account. It has not yet occurred, so I cannot anticipate a complex consideration and what that would mean in a very specific, individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u167	Finally, Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u168	So you don't say no, I understand. Anyway, let's wrap that up. Let's get back to that alert. If I understand correctly, the prosecution says that this is one of the reasons why it is said: do not enter this law in such a way that the alert ends in any case if the judge, at the request of the defendant's lawyer, requests a halt to the criminal proceedings. This also applies to the international alert and everything related to it. In that case, we are powerless. Can the Minister specifically address this situation, which is also mentioned by the prosecution in the passage I have presented?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u169	Sure. But that's two really different things. I said the following in my first term, also in the direction of Mrs Bezaan. If we say, for example, to the five suspects last month, "we're not going to bring them back, even if we can," then the judge will end the trial. Then they're gonna run away with no strings attached, and then they're gonna lose the alert. But that has nothing to do with the withdrawal of nationality. That has nothing to do with this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u170	Mr Recourt. No, I said "finally," Mrs. Veldhoen. There were three of them. Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u171	Just to be clear: if you withdraw Dutch citizenship, the alert will stand, because we are still looking for those people, including internationally, for terrorist crimes. If the judge says the case doesn't exist anymore and that you're unpunished, so you don't get punishment, then you don't have anything left to look for on a list like that. That is one of the reasons why the cabinet says: if the opportunity arises, if you weigh everything as you have to weigh it down, from national security to the security of our own people, international relations and everything, and you can bring them back, then you will have to do so, in order to prevent that situation from arising.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u172	I'm gonna stick to the death penalty anyway. Is it true that it is standing policy, and that this government, of course, will continue to follow that policy, that the Dutch government does not cooperate in the prosecution of its nationals abroad if the death penalty can result?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u174	Oh, thank God. That's one. But why the Minister's reluctance at the moment when the Dutch government is deprived of Dutch citizenship, which could lead to the death penalty being imposed on someone? I understand from the Minister's cautious response that she does not want this to fall under the basic rule that we have just agreed on. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u175	Because there are a lot of assumptions in there that Mr Recourt and I can't predict right now, so we can't speculate how that will work. Anyone who has left our country to join a fight has done so knowing that there is the death penalty for such crimes. The fact that we in the Netherlands believe that you should not impose the death penalty but that you should do it in another way is obvious. It is also obvious that I will set that up in my talks, internationally, where I am heading towards the region. But of course, I don't know what kind of case they have against a particular person, what kind of trial is going to take place and what kind of punishment comes out. But that's all the elements you have to weigh at that moment. It is very difficult to speculate, because it is assumed here that it is a black-and-white situation in this as-dance scenario and that they say: the Dutchmanship is withdrawn; then the death penalty will be applied immediately. Such a scenario in such a complex world seems a bit far-fetched, but you don't know that. That situation has not occurred. But the principles which Mr Recourt mentioned at the beginning of his question: that is so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u176	Every Dutchman who commits a crime abroad, in a country where the death penalty has not been abolished, takes that risk, the Dutch government says. We're not cooperating in that prosecution. So that's no different for extravagants. Again, I understand the complexity and I understand that the Minister does not say in an individual case: well, the as-dan question... But a step more firmly that the Netherlands continues to oppose the death penalty and thus actively oppose the execution of that death penalty would, I think, be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u177	As I said, in my discussions, internationally, that will of course always be an item on the agenda. In that part, I fully follow Mr Recourt. The assumption that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship would mean by definition that you are cooperating in the death penalty is therefore too simple, with all due respect, because that is not how Mr Recourt led it, but that is what it comes down to. For that, I don't think it's very convenient to speculate what such a situation looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u178	Thank you, Minister. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u179	Mr. Chairman. I was very pleased with what Mr Janssen said about the Justice Team. I shall be speaking with Members of Parliament much more often than I do to you about a lot of matters that fall under my responsibility and which sometimes do not lead to legislation at all. I am thinking, for example, of the asylum portfolio I have. I very much believe that it should not be: 76 or 38 is more than 37 or 74. I very much believe in the 'Justice team', as you call it in this case; on other points, the 'The Netherlands team'. In any case, we need to see how we can make things better and not simply say: I have the majority, so your argument does not matter to me. I also believe very strongly that you and I, even if we disagree, do not want to make the Netherlands better together on this point, although we may do so in a different way, but also that we do so in the right spirit, namely within the legal frameworks that exist. I was very pleased with what you said and I will be in it for the next three years; at least there will be elections again. That is why I was disappointed too, because that is the word 'Mrs Veldhoen'. Not only was he critical of her colleagues, but he was also critical of the cabinet. She used rather firm words, not only to you as a Chamber and the colleagues in the Lower House, but also to the cabinet by talking about difference by race. As far as I am concerned, even when cream-white people with Dutch nationality and Swedish nationality, or with Dutch nationality and French nationality, travel to these areas, they lose nationality. Indeed, there are also some dubious texts that have been traveled by room-white people. We cannot deprive them of nationality if they have the single nationality, but if they have a double nationality, then yes! As far as I'm concerned, I'm gonna get rid of it. So there is absolutely no distinction by race. That's what I really experience in the depths of my inner body. There is no discrimination. Not only do I think that, but also the Department of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights. This is also what the case-law section bases its case-law on. In any case, I would also like to refer to statements of 30-12-20 and 30-04-21. It is also explicitly stated by the case-law section that there is no discrimination. Not only do I disagree with Mrs Veldhoen, I also feel strengthened by the Justice Section, but I also found it very harsh words from Mrs Veldhoen and therefore from GroenLinks. And I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u180	Mrs. Veldhoen, please join this microphone. You're going to interfere with the government now, or else you'll be back to the government again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u181	Excuse me. Of course, I also like the words of the Secretary of State that it seems so intense. They were my words, because I have pronounced them, but they were also the words of the College of Human Rights. That has also written that it really believes that there is discrimination by race, because all the people who have fallen under this scheme in recent years have dual nationality and non-Western surnames. So that's one side of the story. In practice, it affects the people with a migration background in particular. Another element is the judgments of the Court of Justice of the Council of State. These are both statements on paragraph 2 of Article 14. In that, the weighting is quite different, because there is a whole criminal procedure surrounded by guarantees. I do not go into the finesses entirely, but that is another weighting, of which the Meijers Committee and the Human Rights College also say: that is another test; a less heavy test has been applied than should have been done because criminal proceedings are being carried out there. I do not think that these two statements apply to Article 14 (4).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u182	It is true that the College of Human Rights has said this, but that is not what I am talking about or debating. I'm in conversation with you, and I'm in debate with you, the Chamber. In it, Mrs Veldhoen made the words of the College of Human Rights hers by saying: there is a distinction here between races. That's why I'm addressing her, because I'm in a debate with her. At least I'm speaking to her through you, Mr. Chairman. For with her I am in debate, not with the College of Human Rights. I wanted to stress once again that it is clearly stated in the two statements I have just quoted that the withdrawal of nationality is not discrimination. It is true that one case is listed in 14 (2) and the other in 14 (4). But the withdrawal as such is not discrimination. You can now say 'I am in favour of 14 (2) and 14 (4)', but you can also say 'I am against 14 (2) and 14 (4)'. Of course you can. It's possible. But at least it is not discrimination to withdraw nationality. This is the view of both the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice. Of course, you can be against 14 (4) and only for 14 (2) or even against both. One more point that the PvdA, Mr Recourt, mentioned. He said in his first term: it is only a limited number of cases. In his second term, he said literally at some point: yes, one time can be enough. And that, of course, is exactly what this is all about. Once can be enough. At least we know that this has kept the people out by the legal road. Nor are there any indications that they have entered illegally. And yes, there is no scientific evidence that this has prevented a terrorist attack, but one terrorist attack could be enough. At least we'll do everything we can to prevent that from happening to each other. Of course, you and I agree that we must make a great deal of effort in this regard. And then maybe we'll disagree... sorry, I have to keep looking at the chairman, of course. I mean, Mr Recourt and I differ as to whether this instrument is the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u183	Very briefly about a remark made by the Secretary of State. He says, "We kept them out." You don't know that. So that's my point all the time. You make the cause-effect reasoning all the time. You don't know if you kept them out or if they stayed out on their own. You don't know that. You keep repeating that as a cause-effect: by this law... If they had tried to get back in here with all of them, all fourteen of them, you would have had a point. Until you can prove that, you have no point and you can only say: they have stayed outside. You can't say and claim that you kept them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u184	If they had tried to enter the Netherlands without us having withdrawn the Netherlands, then we should have let them into the Netherlands, because we should not even refuse them to enter the Netherlands as long as we do not deprive them of Dutch citizenship. So the situation mentioned by Mr Janssen in his interruption cannot arise if they are Dutch, because then we cannot refuse them, and it no longer occurs when they are not Dutch. What is clear, in any case, is that at least these people have not come through legal channels. We can draw that conclusion. We can also conclude that we have no indication that they have entered illegally. That also applies if they are not Dutch. But at least if they are Dutch, we have prevented them from doing so, they could have entered the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u185	We have just heard from the Minister that she says: you should, above all, not go into like-dan situations as a ruler. The last sentences of the Secretary of State, if they stay away now, he simply says: no matter what the WODC has done, we can only actually establish that we have no indication that they have entered the Netherlands legally or illegally. I think that's where the whole factuality ends. Claiming that that is the result of the law, that you have actively prevented them from entering... You don't know that. It may be a long time, but I'm not gonna do that, so I'm gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u186	A final point to Mr Janssen, President. He also returned to that temporaryity in his second term. I understand Mr Janssen's reasoning that when you have a law like this, you can be against it, but if you are in favour, you should not have it temporarily, but permanently. You know that was also the original bill, as filed with the House of Representatives. At the moment when you would follow Mr Janssen's reasoning that at the moment when it is made temporarily by an amendment from the House of Representatives you shouldn't really want that, the only alternative would have been not to forward it to the First Chamber is to withdraw the law. I say: I prefer it temporarily rather than not, although I would have preferred it structuralally. But that's where half the parliament thought, and by that I mean the House of Representatives in this case, because you're the other half, aren't you? Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u187	I give you the opportunity to ask one more question, Mr Janssen, given the time, because we still have a debate to prepare. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u188	The very last one. All this would be true if there were discussions about the state of law and not just about the content. It is precisely the constitutional aspect of heavy measures that has played no part in the discussion. That's what I said, because I haven't been able to find it. That's all I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u189	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u190	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-18.u191	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that the legislative proposal be voted on at the end of the sitting tonight. Then I'm going to suspend the meeting. Just for the agendas. We will begin the interview debate with Minister De Jonge at 5:40 p.m. Then we will continue at 6:40 p.m. with the Government's response and the reply and rejoinder on the phosphate rights system. In the meantime, there is also an opportunity for you to dine, if you wish.
