ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u1	I'm reopening the debate on the Security Test Investment, Mergers and Acquisitions Act. We need the first term from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to members for their input in the first term. I think it is a good thing that I start briefly with the context of the law; I will not spend hours on it because I think we all have it pretty sharp. Then I'll give you the answers in a few blocks. I understand it's nice to report it to you in advance. Would you like me to mention them for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u4	I think the members like that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u5	I think I got seven. Purpose, scope, locational environment, evaluation questions, what has to do with implementation, how a decision is taken, and campuses. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a trading country, as some of your members have already indicated. The strength of our economy lies in our locational environment, our infrastructure, our open society, our creativity, our labor ethic and our trading spirit, for hundreds of years. It is just that geopolitical changes are now taking place, so that we have to take a critical look at the extent to which we can still move freely. Certain states want to exercise power by influencing companies, technologies and vital infrastructure. This may affect the national security of the Netherlands. Investment, takeovers and mergers are means that states use to achieve geopolitical goals. For example, obtaining a gas storage can sabotage the process of distribution of gas, putting the supply of gas for Dutch families and companies at risk. That could disrupt society. Let me give you another example: a new owner of a company that develops sensitive technology, such as quantum technology. This may also jeopardise national security, as quantum computers may in future be able to crack digitally encrypted systems that can exploit personal and state secrets. And that kind of technology shouldn't fall into the wrong hands. That's why this law. The purpose of this law is to protect national security. The need for this is all the more felt at the moment by the situation in Ukraine, to which a number of Members have also referred. The Vifo Act is not the only instrument we have to counter threats within the economic domain, but is complementary. It's a safety net. For example, we also have export controls, legislation on the security of network and information systems, procurement legislation and measures on knowledge security. Vifo is effective and proportionate through its customisation and transparent review process, while at the same time it does justice to the importance of a good location and investment environment and the international orientation of our business. We must monitor this balance, and we have tried to do so in this law. This is also the subject of a large number of Members' questions. Then I come to the purpose and scope of what a number of Members have asked questions about. Mr Graus of the PVV asked whether all companies of national interest could be taken into account, for example companies providing primary necessities such as heat, energy, public health and medicines, everything that is important for survival. No, and that's why I attached that introduction. It is precisely this legislative proposal that has been chosen to take national security as the sole target, also in order to be able to monitor the balance sheet, to use the instrument in a pure and proportionate manner, and also not to unduly harm the impact on the investment and location environment. If we were to extend it to other interests, the use of the instrument could also lead to a little more political arbitrariness. This would, therefore, be detrimental to the legal certainty of companies and, once again, to our investment environment. But we've defined national security very broadly. It is about the continuity of vital processes, i.e. the security of supply of, for example, energy, but also about unwanted knowledge transfer and strategic dependencies. That is how we have tried to provide for this. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Dijk said it is a good thing that the cabinet is doing a new vitality assessment. She specifically asked whether we could also carry out a vitality assessment of the food supply. You know it's done. You were curious about the results. There is indeed a vitality assessment of the food supply at the moment. It's done by LNV. If vital providers are appointed there, we will inform the Chamber about this. Then we will see if that can also be brought under the Vifo Act. This is also exactly the process we advocate to expand the target group with an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u6	What period should I think about? How fast or how slow is this going?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u7	I don't know, because that happens in another department, but I can check it out and come back to that in the second term. Then Mrs Van Dijk also asked how we look at the postal services, for example. You mentioned the sensitivity of mail to, for example, essential products such as medicines or something very democratically relevant as letter votes. The postal service is not regarded as a vital process and therefore does not fall within the scope of the Vifo Act. We believe that the universal postal service is adequately protected in the Postal Act. The principle of this law is that it is a safety net and does not repeat what has already been incorporated and protected in other laws. Moreover, or in addition, I should say, PostNL also has a protection structure. So we are looking again at the company-law resources that companies also have in order to achieve protections. For example, they have established an independent foundation: Stichting Continuiteit PostNL. It can act independently if continuity is compromised, for example through the issuance of preferred shares and a call option. You see more in the corporate domain that protection structures are built in this way. Mrs Van Dijk also asked what more we are doing, what measures we are working on, in addition to this Vifo Act. We have a wide range of instruments. That focuses on the "protect" on the one hand, so protecting it and on the other hand the "promote," so beautifully put, so promoting it, creating an innovative and resilient economy. We are also doing this at European level, for example, by working on IPCEIs, but also, for example, with the National Growth Fund, with which we want to boost our economic structure. By the way, we will decide tomorrow on the investment proposals in that NGF. When we talk about 'protect', so the measures we take, the protection structures, for example, we already have investment tests in the Telecommunications Act, the Gas Act and the Electricity Act. These laws therefore also prevail; they are more specific than the Vifo Act. In addition, we have a sector-specific bill in preparation that deals with defence-related industry. So we have secured a number of investment tests in different laws. This is the safety net for what is not specifically regulated there. Mr Van Strien asked whether the law was adequate. You actually asked me to reflect on that. We monitor the situation continuously. If it turns out that it's not enough, we'll have to switch in. Of course, I am also very willing to do so, because we need to achieve the objective of the law. I have just indicated that we have a number of other measures, other instruments, to monitor the security situation. Penalty of espionage is under way. The bill Promoting digital resilience companies has now, I believe, been sent to the Council of State for advice. We also have the extended application of the Procurement Act in the field of defence and security. We believe that this means that at present there are sufficient instruments available to monitor safety, but it is indeed important that we monitor this. You yourself indicated in the course of your speech that five years might be a long time to keep an eye on that. I would, however, like to make a commitment here, and I think Mr Graus also asked this question to look back after two years. That is not a complete legal assessment, because we really do not have enough information for that, but it can give us a first impression of whether it is effective, whether it works, how often it is applied and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr Van Strien, for clarification on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u9	I thank the Minister for the commitment. Just so we're clear, it's not just about the functioning of the law, it's about the purpose. Is the objective achieved or should other instruments be used? It is therefore a broader view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u10	It seems very functional to me to look at it more broadly, because it is indeed a set of instruments that we are using. Mr Van Strien asked whether the Chamber could have access to the list of vital companies. The PVV also referred to that. It is true that the departments decide which processes are vital. The list of vital processes has been published on the NCTV website. There you can read which processes are covered. Of course, the department ultimately determines which one is officially considered a vital process, but this is done in conjunction with, for example, the NCTV and other organisations. Mr Kwint asked whether an acquisition by a foreign company could also be stopped if there were no foreign state actors behind it, but there would be a risk to security. The answer to that is yes. Vifo does not specifically target state actors. The question is whether the acquisition constitutes a risk to national security. So that is independent of whether the acquiring company is a state actor or something else. Then I have to think very hard about what that other might be, but it is mainly about the question of acquisition. This is assessed on the basis of the criteria of vifo.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u11	The other one could be, for example, a crime syndicate, to name but a few. It's good to hear that confirmed again. I understand that there is a maximum time limit within which that can be increased. That's six months, I'll just say it out of my head. How is it prevented from being exceeded by a debt that is outside the Netherlands, so that a company can still be attracted? I call it a cross street: a company from Argentina wants to make an investment here. We must ask for information in Argentina. Because of another government, it takes a very long time for us to have that information. This law will then have a term of six months, and then we will still have to allow something, while there may also be an interest in letting it run out of time so that an acquisition is allowed. I'm curious to see how that's monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u12	I think Mr Kwint is quite right. I'll be happy to have you extend it, too, but I'm gonna have to check it out. Let me show you the order. Following a notification, the Audit Office should inform Investment within eight weeks of the need for the review decision. In this case, we would say yes. Then an investigation must be carried out to see whether a decision is indeed being taken. That first eight-week period can be extended by a maximum of six months, but that is really about the decision whether further research is being carried out. I see that the deadline is then set at a maximum of ten months, eight weeks plus eight weeks plus six months. Then three more months can be added in parallel. The question is, what do we do if it's not enough? I think it is right that I should come back to that in the second term, because I share Mr Kwint's concerns. So I'll take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u13	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u14	Then there is the question of decisions and decisions, but also the question of implementation. How does the Minister decide to opt for a particular measure? Mr Van Haga asked about that. It is very difficult to link certain risks already to a particular instrument or measure. We're doing a very good analysis and making sure we don't overreact. He also asked whether such situations have already occurred. Yes, it has occurred several times during this period that an investigation had to be carried out. My experience is also that this is very proportional. Making a decision to ban the takeover is really the hardest thing to do. It looks at other ways, such as protection structures and other safeguards, to ensure that we do not unnecessarily limit the investment and location environment. Mr Van Haga also asked about the risk of arbitrariness. It is an individual assessment in which we must indeed keep a close eye on equal cases. I believe that this is necessary in all ways, because the companies concerned can also take a step to the courts to indicate that they are disproportionately disadvantaged. So it forces us to be very sharp in the purity of the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u15	If I understand correctly, there have been no cases since the date in question that are really above that toughest sanction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u16	Unfortunately, I cannot confirm that in that way, because it is really about a small number of cases. This would therefore already cover certain confidential information. The question was, has it happened yet? The answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u17	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Haga also asked whether the deadlines could be shorter. The law sets out deadlines. Most studies will be completed within the eight-week period. We also seek to use this as a maximum period and not to go beyond it, except in a situation such as Mr Kwint mentioned, where you really need information in order to be able to make the right balance and which is delayed outside your own hands. I've just given the assessment of the deadlines. Then I'll come to the retroactivity. Mr Van Haga asked if this would set a precedent which would make this type of practice much more frequent in the future. I agree that it is unusual and also undesirable to deal too easily with retroactivity. We have believed that it is really important in this case because of the importance of protecting national security, but we must be cautious about this. Why did we choose this date? On 8 September 2020, vifo went into internet consultation. At that time, the essentialia, the important features of the law, were also known. So at that point there was also a sense of what we were doing. For that reason, combined with the importance of national security, we thought it was reasonable to use this time limit. But in general, you are right that we should be reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u19	Will you pass judgements on the amendments at the end of your term? I believe that Mr Van Haga had tabled an amendment on this point, but you can also do so at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u20	I think I'll take that at the end, Mr. Chairman. I'd like that. I've been talking about the acquisition activities. I come to Mr Van Strien's question as to whether we have sufficient capacity with 3 fte. The implementation is, as you know, invested in the EZK Audit Office. They currently have sufficient resources and capacity, but that has to do with the experience we have now. If it is necessary, we must indeed expand. Then we can look at the flexible shell and also use expertise from other parts. I welcome the attention given to this, because I believe that it is important that we should not be able to do these important issues properly due to capacity problems. I agree. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the questions about the locational climate. Mr Van Strien asked what the expected effects would be on the investment and location environment. That is the careful balance that we are trying to monitor, that we are creating as few obstacles as possible to our openness, our trading country, our competitiveness, our location and investment environment. We have done this in the way that we have designed it, so we are very focused on putting this bill in place and not too broad. The Dutch screening mechanism fits in with the European trend, but you can see that we are a little more precise and transparent than other Member States. As a result, we believe that the effects on our competitive position are manageable and proportionate. That's actually the most important thing. Mrs Van Dijk asked if we could outline the impact of the legislative proposal on SMEs and, in particular, the concern that there has been no SME test due to a lack of participants. In another debate, I say through you, President, to Mrs Van Dijk, I have indeed shared my concerns about this. The SME test is a very nice tool, but it is also a real time-limit for SMEs. You can see that's where we run into boundaries. That's too bad. We tried to organize it, but, as you know, there has been insufficient participation. In the internet consultation, however, we had an extensive response from SMEs-Netherlands. We took it with us when we made up the bill. However, in general, I am looking for a good way to involve SMEs. Mr Van Haga asked for a reopening of previously tested cases and how this is proportionate to investment security. Once again, you have to be cautious about that. In this sense, I share Mr Van Haga's concerns about monitoring our locational climate, but the security situation in the world or in a country can change. Then there may be serious reasons to look again at a situation. Look, for example, at what is happening in Ukraine. Russia's role in this could be a reason to review certain acquisitions. That was created in the bill, so there's a possibility to reopen. But that really has to be about heavy risks that lead to social disruption. It really must be a direct threat to Dutch sovereignty, the decision must be taken in accordance with the feelings of the Council of Ministers. So you have to explicitly set it up there and also check the feeling if this is the right way to get into the rifle. On the other hand, companies can also claim compensation when that would be disproportionate. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Strien asked how we are going to inform entrepreneurs properly. That is indeed important. In any case, we will inform all entrepreneurs who are working on sensitive technologies, and we really know a lot about these developments over time. There are information meetings and there are also necessary meetings through the trade association. They are also covered by the export arrangements. That's the way they get information. That is at least about the vital processes. I have to say it right. I'm gonna mess them up once in a while. On the one hand, it is about export bans and on the other hand it is about sensitive technologies. We must therefore ensure that we make this very transparent. They can also contact the Investment Review Office with questions about the law. So we do our best to bring them as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u21	That's good to hear. I am particularly concerned with the start-ups and scale-ups, which are mainly concerned with innovation and wild ideas, which may suddenly be confronted with the fact that they are going to be covered by this law. How do we address it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr Van Strien is right about that. If you are very enthusiastic about developing a new technology that could fall underneath, then you may not fully realize that. This could be the case, for example, with dual-use technology. Anyway, at least there's a test when you start exporting. So at least that's what's going on. And even when there is a takeover, we will have to make sure that the right questions are asked through the notary. I also really expect a test to take place there at the moment it is on the agenda. Mr. Chairman. I have said the necessary thing about the evaluation. I'll join the campuses. That is, in my view, the difficult subject of this debate. What does it cover and what doesn't include? Mr De Jong asked: how do we investigate which techniques are to be considered as sensitive? In a letter dated July 2021, my predecessor explained that the National Security Analyst Network has developed a system that allows you to assess whether technological development can affect national security. So that helps us. TNO has been asked to develop a method specifically tailored to vifo on this basis. We are still trying to make that a good assessment and assessment framework. It takes into account, for example, the uniqueness, availability and accessibility of the technology in question. We then use this balancing framework to make the decisions. That is the process we are going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u23	I welcome this answer, but it is now very much about the processes. In our opinion, the problem is in the cities. As a government, we invest an incredible amount of money in these campuses, just to put those good-looking heads together to see if we can create added value. Mr Van Strien also referred to this. That's what we invest in. That's what you need rocks for, and that's what we call a campus. But these campuses are not covered by this law, so let me ask the Minister a broader question: how does the Minister look at these campuses, which we as a government and you as a cabinet are fully committed to? That's something you want to protect, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u24	Then I will take this question out, because I had them very neatly in order, but I fully understand the sensitivity around the campuses. I introduced them myself, of course. I have taken note of your questions about this at an earlier stage, and I have also asked the Ministry to examine again with me where the sensitivities are now in those campuses and why that could or could not be covered by the law. In the first instance, I was inclined to want to have a broader scope as well. This was partly due to the press, to articles published on this subject and to sounds from cooperation. But I am convinced that this is not the right way, because there are a number of obstacles. One. The acquisition of the real estate we are talking about at HTC Eindhoven is really about a real estate acquisition. That would theoretically be no different than, for example, someone who takes over New Babylon as a real estate manager. Then the first question is: when is real estate so specific that it should be covered by this law? What are you getting at? That's a legal question. In this case, real estate is acquired. There is a kind of assumption that is where you wanted to go: a lot of things happen in that area and if you as a real estate manager also do the facility management, for example, then you have access to, for example, ICT or you can walk into companies. Yet that is nothing other than that there would be a start-up here in this building somewhere with sensitive technology, which should basically protect its own business. At the moment when another company would take over that start-up with sensitive technology, it will again be covered by this law. When it comes to information technology and information security, cyber and that sort of thing, we have a different repertoire for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u25	I understand the considerations the Minister shares with the Chamber here. The Minister is also right to mention the points that the Chamber really had a great deal of trouble with. What are the consequences? Can we oversee it? The Minister states that she has been persuaded that it is purely about the stones. For our party, there's a real pain in the ass. You bring together a lot of knowledge and energy there, and we also put in financial resources to get those good-looking heads there. But let me make the question very specific to the Minister: is the Minister prepared to look at this campus strategy and how we will ensure that we can guarantee it? Or does the Minister actually say in her answer: this is it and this is what you will have to do as a chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u26	No. At a time when something is being widely supported by the Chamber, I think, from a democratic point of view, that I really need to look at it. But I share the concerns, too. It's not even something I have to impose on myself. I just don't have the right solution yet, and I also seriously wonder if bringing it under this law is the right solution, just because of the definition of what is now a high-tech campus and what is not. Is every business area where there happens to be a small company that also develops certain technology, a high-tech campus? Then I'll come back to the other side of the balance that we need to monitor. If we are going to make real estate investment so complicated and so real in this country, when we are only achieving a very small result, then it becomes complicated. But if you ask, would you like to look into that again? Where are the risks? I'm getting something out of you, I see. I absolutely want to investigate how high-tech campuses are at risk and what the right tools are for ensuring that they do not affect national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u27	I am very happy with this commitment. I also welcome the view that the Minister is saying that this may not be the right law to deal with this. If I may listen to the promise that the Minister will return to it in another setting, in a committee debate or in a letter, then I fully understand that, and I can also fully agree that we are not just applying it to this law today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u28	Then I want to make a promise that I will write a letter about this, because I think that this needs to be carefully formulated so that we know what we are talking about. Then perhaps we can have a debate afterwards to see if it is sufficient. But I share the concerns about access to sensitive technology in situations like this. The question is whether real estate acquisition can be the key to accessing those technologies. Where that's a risk, we have to protect them. I wonder what the good tools are. That is the way I want to respond to the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u29	It is said here that we make investments so complicated. I think we're asking above all to check the front so that we avoid naive decisions at the back. It's nice that there's a commitment, but before we've even rigged something up, we're years and years and years again, as we all know, we're talking about sailing and talking about restless waters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u30	I want to respond quickly, but that doesn't mean I'll have all the answers soon. Perhaps I should then make a promise that I will share with you the dilemmas I have left, for example about the definition, when I do not have an answer to them. Because that definition is really complicated: what is a high-tech campus and what isn't? I would like to do my best, for example, to take you into the state of affairs before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u31	Also in the context of speed: Q1 would receive a letter from the Ministry on the location climate and the new economy. This would also include the campus strategy that Mr Amhaouch and myself have asked for. I don't think we'll have to wait very long. If it's okay, there's a letter in the making. I think he can get here faster than before the summer. April 1st was not successful, but let's meet on May 1st. Then we can indeed conduct the debate, which is so important, on the basis of the right information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u32	I will pass on the exact date in the second term, so that the expectations are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr Kwint on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u34	I understand that it is complicated to use a precise definition, but today we are talking about a law that specifically defines national security in which strategic dependencies and knowledge leakage are explicitly mentioned as part of that national security. I think it is logical that a question should be raised as to whether it is enough, but I also think that this should be the place where the answer is given. I therefore believe that this debate should be able to discuss, for example, the risk of leaking knowledge through the acquisition of real estate in those high-tech campsites. That is now being put in a new letter. But if you want to make that assessment, right or, for example, high-tech campuses are part of it with a view to precisely the law we are discussing today and national security, shouldn't that belong here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u35	Right now, as the bill is now before you, we haven't brought it under the law. I have just described part of the reason for this, but it is also that we have a different toolbox, for example the designation of trust functions. For example, you could put that in the management organisation. At the time when you're not talking about acquiring real estate, but for example about the risks associated with having a management organisation that's a different question then you might get a little closer to the risk itself. Then the article in the law becomes more proportional. That is why I do not have a ready-made answer here, because we have not sufficiently worked that out. But that could be a possible direction of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u36	Let me ask the other way around: is the issue of the possibility of deterring investment in real estate a sufficiently serious argument to say now that we are not going to intervene, for example, in those acquisitions of high-tech campuses, which we were talking about, knowing that we are at risk because the instruments are simply not yet complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u37	I have two reactions to that. One. We do not know that we are running that risk, because it has not yet come to us that there have really been situations in which this was a real risk to national security. However, there are situations of acquiring ownership of a company, but not of acquiring real estate. That doesn't mean it can't be a risk in the future. That's what we're talking about right now. Then the first part of your question. I have to think about what you said before, and I want to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u38	It was an introduction. I wanted to ask more: is the deterring of real estate investments such a serious argument? We don't really lack that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr Kwint triggered me on that point, because then I thought: yes, I might have to make that visible too. There is a lot of investment by foreign companies in real estate in the Netherlands. At a time when we no longer allow this, we are also doing something with our economy in a broad sense. I would like to add a few figures to that, because I think it is good to see the balance sheet in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u40	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u41	Then we are approaching the next point, I think. I am aware that there is a lot of investment by foreign companies in our real estate. But to what extent that is something that you must maintain unbiased is, in my opinion, what we differ on. But I'd like to invite the Minister to share those figures with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u42	I think the point of campus is just parked right now. Mr De Jong asked how the Chamber is informed about a plan or decision to use a general measure of governance to label the technology as sensitive. You are considering an AMvB to have a light front or at least to take note of it. You want to know what the scope is. Two AMvBs are coming under the law: one to further refine the scope of sensitive technologies and one to further fill in the technical legal aspects. Those two AMvBs will be in internet consultation for the summer. We expect entry into force by the end of 2022. The legislative proposal does not provide for a preliminary procedure, because it is simply the use of state law. On this point, I can imagine that in this case we might look at it a little more broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u43	I do not think that my group raised the issue of the pending procedure. I think that was the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u44	Yes, that was Mr Van Strien indeed. He has also tabled an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u45	Excuse me. That is a very big difference, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u46	All the amendments will come in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u47	I'm just looking in my pile, but I don't have it right here. In my opinion, Mr De Jong did ask about our trial of the AMvB. I have answered that question in this regard. I also answered this question. The parts of it were connected to the campus. Mr Kwint asked me to add a few words about how the interests of workers are protected in the long term: are employees' interests sufficiently taken into account? As much as I agree with the interests of employees, we have chosen to use this law as a point of reference for national security in order to keep it proportionate. If we were to extend it more broadly, for example to employees' interests, it would be quite a wide-ranging instrument. Perhaps that could lead to arbitrariness. So I have to look at other ways of guaranteeing employees' interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u48	I understand that, but we were just talking about the definition of 'national security' that is being used. For example, name the risk of leaking strategic knowledge. An acquisition of a company with possible human consequences can be negative for the Netherlands, even from the perspective of national security. For example, a new owner might want to set up a completely new workforce. This may allow the new owner to take the knowledge that has been built up, but not the employees who have built up that knowledge. In the end, therefore, a lot of knowledge disappears. In that case, there could be a risk to national security. That was one of the reasons why I asked this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u49	The relationship with national security is a little more circumstantial here, but I see it. The leaking of knowledge is a risk. A letter was also sent to your Chamber by my colleague from OCW on the importance of knowledge security. I would like to refer to that letter, because it deals with this issue. How do we monitor knowledge building, also in relation to collaborations we have, for example, with countries that may be somewhat different from us in relation to knowledge acquisition? Those things are pretty well worked out in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u50	That is true when it comes to research trails, for example, but not when it comes to takeovers. That is the area we are discussing here, in this debate. I consider the Minister of OCW to be capable of a great deal, but I do not think she can do much about this. In my view, this is indeed the place where we have to weigh up the extent to which the loss of knowledge caused by foreign acquisition of a company affects national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u51	If it affects national security, it belongs under this bill. If it has much more indirect negative consequences for our economy, or leads to the leakage of work capacity and knowledge, it is another demand. I would therefore like to refer to the protection structures that companies themselves have in order to take action against unwanted takeovers. For example, a reflection period has recently been introduced for listed companies. Shareholders, even a small percentage of them, may also ask for a review of strategy. They may even question the position of directors at the time when these directors would go along with these kinds of proposals. I'm just giving you an example, but there are a lot of means to fight these kinds of risks. Mr Kwint also asked why the manufacturing industry, pollution control and the resolution of the climate crisis are not part of this law. I say again: we have formulated the law in such a way that it is proportionate. Creative industry is not defined as a vital process. If there were such companies in the field of, for example, sensitive technology, they could be covered. So that could certainly apply to companies that, for example, develop technology to go through energy transitions, i.e. hydrogen companies and that kind of thing. So in a broad sense, it could be possible. But we tried to keep it clear in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u52	That second part indeed answers part of my question. In the manufacturing industry, I mentioned the example of Tata Steel in relation to the safety of the people and the immediate environment. This does, however, touch on the definition of 'national security' that is being laid down. That definition scares the hell out of me. Because if you have a life expectancy around that factory that is 15 or 20 years shorter than in the rest of the Netherlands, that affects your safety. And then you don't have such a message about exactly how that is defined in The Hague, but it does affect your safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u53	I understand Mr Kwint's concern and I think it is very good that he points that out. Only, these kinds of risks are secured by other laws, and in this case by permits. This concerns safety risks, environmental measures. They're licensed. The law we are talking about today is really a safety net law for this purpose explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u54	Clear. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u55	I've run out of questions. I'm just looking. Do I now have the amendments entirely on the retina?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u56	The first amendment is that of Mr Van Haga, in part No. 8, on the deletion of the reference date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u57	Thank you for helping me, Mr. Chairman. I should like to advise against the amendment on retroactivity and the date on which it was adopted. We have taken that retroactivity to prevent strategic behaviour and evasion of that investment test. I said that on 8 September 2020, when we started the internet consultation, we knew what we wanted to do with that law. I think it was September 8th, 2020. We wanted to prevent companies from getting ahead of that by acting quickly. We have done so for the protection of national security and also in view of the recently changed geopolitical situation. The parties were already familiar with it, so I must therefore discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u58	The amendment in part No. 9 belongs to Mr Kwint. I think this is about taking out capital from an acquired company.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u59	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm just looking for my appreciation. I don't have it right here. I would like to come back to that in second place, because I want to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u60	Yes. Then there is another amendment by Mrs Van Dijk on campuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u61	Yes. That is where I would like to refer to what I shared in the discussion. I will discourage it in the form in which it is in place, but with the commitment I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u62	Finally, the amendment to item No. 11, by Mr Van Strien, on the light front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u63	That's what I can do to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u64	Very good. Then there is another question for Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u65	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I could have put it to Mr Van Strien, and perhaps I would have done so in the second term. The amendment of the VVD certainly raises questions for me. We agreed in the law that we should leave the control and review to the Ministry. With that light front, we'll also involve the Chamber. My question is: why should we want to do that, why should we have such instruments? I assume that there are experts in your ministry who would like to leave them to the Chamber? Nothing to the detriment of our ability as MPs, but we are not experts when it comes to sensitive technology. I am therefore very curious to see why the Minister thinks that the Chamber should have influence on this. The second question that is linked to it is as follows. In doing so, you may also involve the Chamber in a conflict if the Ministry makes a different assessment. If the Chamber in the front says "we want this" and the Ministry says "no," then we make this unnecessarily political in my view. That is why I am very curious to see why the Minister is judging this amendment as Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u66	I really think it is a democratic balance between the Chamber itself. Our aim was not to do it, especially for the reasons you mention. But I can also imagine that sensitive technology in the context of the times in which we live may also contain political elements and that the Chamber appreciates that. My choice is not to. That is why it is not in the legislative proposal, but I say again: I think it is a democratic balance, and that is why I put it to the Chamber, not because I agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u67	If the Minister does not agree with a proposal, will the amendment be 'dissuade', and you can give this consideration? My question to the Minister is as follows. You just said twice: "I don't think it's a good idea and that's why it's not in the law. But from a democratic point of view, I would like to submit it, with judgment Chamber." Then you've lost me for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u68	No, I'll have to formulate it carefully. From the legal point of view, it is not necessary or usual, but it is about matters that are of great importance, which go beyond what is normal. It's about national security and assessing sensitive technologies, and there's a political load underneath that. I deliberately put that down to the Chamber and when the Chamber decides that it wants to deal with it, it is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u69	To conclude, Mr De Jong on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u70	Then I conclude that the Chamber can also exercise its influence afterwards. The Ministry comes with a review and the Chamber can always check afterwards. That's what I think our job here as a chamber is. I'm surprised you're giving that judgment. At the moment, you have not been able to convince me that it should be placed before the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u71	I said what I had to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mr. Van Strien? He's gonna sit down again. Have you reached the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u73	I have just received a folder of amendments, so it might be useful to take out the Quint amendment. This was about suspensions resulting from non-compliance and the withdrawal of the acquirer's right to the proceeds, dividends and the like. We advise against that amendment. The effect of this amendment is to impose measures on the acquirer without reducing the risks to national security. I understand that there are doubts about this, because it does favour oneself, but that has nothing to do with the purpose of this law, which is to reduce the risks to national security. It is therefore also not proportionate and not in line with the company-law way in which we organised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u74	We come back to the point that one has a somewhat broader definition of 'national security' than the other. But I really don't think this is right, in at least two ways. One. Someone can make a lot of money and do business with it or buy things that are indeed bad for national security. Especially when it comes to state actors, I think we have seen enough examples in recent history of ways of making money that you know goes directly to deadly weapons. There was also another way, but that's what I'm thinking now. Oh, yeah, the continuity of a business. At the moment when reserves are being withdrawn, when money is being drawn from a company, when the continuity of a company that we consider to be of strategic importance is compromised by the action of a new owner that is still under investigation, I think we are cutting our fingers when we do not do so. It doesn't say "it shouldn't," it just says "it should be one of the possible sanctions."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u75	I think we are talking about the situation in which we are investigating and in which we have some kind of suspension until a decision has been taken. The moment the decision is taken and the takeover is prohibited, it is clear. Then no more resources can be obtained or dividend payments can be made. Then we will make a decision, for example a ban with conditions. That's the reason not to. Until that decision has been taken, it has not yet been established that there is a situation that does not relate to the purpose of the law. The second thing you say is about continuity and withdrawal of resources. I really think that is a different discussion, because it can happen at any time at any company. That's just what protection structures are for. It's too far to tell them all now, but they're there. I think those two things should not be confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u76	But there's been a suspension. At the moment a footballer is suspended, he is not going to play a football game in anticipation of a final verdict. A suspension is a suspension. This means that you can say during an investigation: it may not be a sanction, but we want to prevent irreversible steps being taken pending our decision whether sanctions should be imposed. The clearing out of reserves, for example, is a very irreversible step. This also affects the continuity of the company. If it is a company that we consider vital, I really think we should deal with it more wisely than we do now. Then I find the argument that it does not fit in with the company rules as we have agreed on, not convincing enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u77	I would like to say that in all kinds of situations there may be the risk of the withdrawal of assets. That's right, and that's what I'm worried about. But we do have a lot of tools to fight against that. As far as that football player is concerned, I wonder if he's not getting his paycheck anymore and he's gonna have to hand in his shoes. The question is, what happens in a suspension? It's not a football player. Yeah, you were talking about the soccer player who got suspended and wasn't allowed to play anymore, but the question is whether he gets his money. I think that's the situation you're describing: what are you doing in that intervening period? Moreover, the aim of this type of acquiring party is often not to withdraw money from a company, but rather to get the knowledge out of it. I don't know if those two risks relate to each other either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u79	Finally, then. I immediately agree with the Minister that it will often not be the main objective. I fully agree: it is more about knowledge than it is about getting the money out. But the moment you know that you can't buy a company including the knowledge because you won't get through the review of this law, you can definitely strategically choose to damage a company in another country. This can be done, for example, by withdrawing those reserves or damaging the continuity of the company, knowing that you will not be able to do that acquisition after all. But you put that in, so that in the meantime a company that we find vital by an actor who is not too friendly to us, let me put it this way... I think that that kind of thing is preventing exactly the purpose of this law. I see this as a very small, easy and clear way to make the law more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u80	I understand the concerns, but we have other measures for that and they are not specifically addressed in the risk of national security. So it may be that these two run together, but that is not automatically the case and we have other measures for the undesirable withdrawal of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'm sorry it took you so long. I had to recover from the fact that the spokesperson of Democrats was 66 against democratic control. I had to chew on that, but I also have a question about the Minister's appreciation. In her reply, she said that it was somewhat unusual to introduce such a suspension procedure to such a law. I think it's pretty common. If you are placed under such an AMvB as a sensitive technology, entrepreneur or provider, that has far-reaching consequences. Well, then it's pretty common for you to set up such a hanging procedure, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u82	There are also other sides of the issue, which Mr De Jong also gave to Mr De Jong, which led us to believe that it did not automatically have to be in the law. It is requested for the reasons that motivated yourself. I have also explained that in that case I thought it reasonable that the Court itself should decide on this, because this may have far-reaching consequences on parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u83	We agree on that reasonableness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr De Jong still comes up with an afterburner on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yeah, well, if I'm being challenged like that, I can't just leave it there. There is nothing wrong with the democratic process, as Mr Van Strien points out. We can still do that here as a room, in front or in the back. But what Mr Van Strien wants, just as long as he stays with his metaphor of the sailboats...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u86	You should not debate this with Mr Van Strien. You may ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u87	No, I'm looking at the minister. Let me ask the Minister. It feels a bit like there is still a small tug for the sailboat of the VVD to see if we are going to sail to the Caribbean or to the north. That feels uncomfortable, doesn't it? I would therefore ask the Minister once again to reconsider that appreciation. I understand that the Minister would like to leave it with the Chamber, but I do have a bit of a problem with the differences of understanding between the VVD Minister and the VVD Chamber member. So I would like to hear that one more time: what is the Minister's preference?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u88	Then I'm gonna repeat myself. In this case, I have no objection if the Court wishes to deal with that. Then Mr De Jong can make his own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u89	Very good. I believe that the Minister has answered all the questions and has also provided an opinion on the four amendments. The amendments to documents Nos. 8, 9 and 10 have been dissuaded and the amendment to item No. 11 gets judgment room. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the second term of office. Then I shall return to Mr Van Haga, who will speak on behalf of the Van Haga Group for his second term in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for all the answers. It was all very clear. Too bad our amendment to delete the reference date has been discouraged. It's still a bit of a weird figure as far as we're concerned. It is contrary to the nulla-poena principle. In this way, you still touch legal certainty in the Netherlands and thus also the locational environment. But perhaps colleagues are going to vote in favour of the amendment. I have two motions that I don't have on me, I see. Just a minute. I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u91	Okay. Mr Van Haga walks to his place. You can keep walking, you know. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thanks for stopping time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the procedures may or may not proceed to review and that the final review decision may take several months;]] [[Whereas rapid clarity on an acquisition activity is of great importance to all parties;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely the duration of the procedure in practice and to intervene in a timely manner if it appears that too many procedures are longer than the standard eight weeks for determining whether a review is necessary as well as taking a final review decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35880-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u93	The Minister said something about the two-year evaluation. But to ensure that, I still have a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Safety Test Act may be investment, mergers and acquisitions potential of added value and that timely clarity on effectiveness and other effects, such as those on the investment environment, are in the national interest;]] [[calls on the government, after two years, to review the effectiveness and other effects of the law, in addition to the planned review after five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35880-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u95	Thank you for your contribution in second term. The next speaker is Mrs Van Dijk, on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few points to make in replying to the questions. I am sure that the SME test will be discussed further in subsequent debates. It's good to hear that care is shared. If one of the arguments was put forward: it takes a lot of time for SMEs and that is why it might help. But that doesn't make it any less important. In order to avoid the risk of ex post repair, it would indeed be good to think about how to help them implement this SME test in a good way. Then, of course, the campuses. We really disagree about that, I notice, when it comes to the real estate acquisition. For us it is really about what is happening within those stones and how important it is for the Netherlands to protect and preserve that, or at least to test it. We belong to the minister that she feels that somewhere, but also that she is still looking for how to fix it. We have tried, with the amendment we tabled in the first instance, to make a move in this direction. We are really willing to think about it further, but we also think it is important to keep it up, because we would think it would be a missed opportunity if we did not take this step now. Besides, I have a motion. Perhaps the Minister will say: it is a promise. Then it supports each other. Well, that's what I'm supposed to be in the appreciation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the High Tech Campus Eindhoven has been taken over by a Singaporean state-owned company and that this acquisition has not been reviewed in advance;]] [[Whereas innovation is a major public interest, but it is not always safe for unwanted takeovers;]] [[Whereas it is important to be able to pre-examine and, in extreme cases, prevent takeovers of company campuses, or other places where public-private cooperation is carried out on technologies and applications of economic and strategic importance for the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to explore additional investment, merger and acquisition instruments under the Security Test Act to protect such sites, such as company campuses or regional research and innovation ecosystems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35880-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you also for your contribution in second term. I call Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to national security, to ensure affordability, security of supply and foreign independence in primary necessities, food safety, animal and public health and welfare, financial and economic and social consequences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35880-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman, it's a mouthful. I know the Minister has explained that it is more important here to do national security. But if you, as a Member of Parliament, have participated in a committee of inquiry and inquiry, then you know that as a Member of Parliament you must always have done everything you can for yourself, not only so that one day you can die quietly, but also in case you are ever called upon to prevent a particular merger or acquisition that may be of national importance and that may affect security. With Mr Kwint it was also much wider than what the safety test is intended for in the law. You must have done everything. Even if this motion doesn't make it, I can at least say, "Listen, guys, I've done my best and fought like a lion. But of course you always need a majority, so I'll do my best." I bless the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u101	Thank you for your contribution to the second term. Mr Van Strien on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u102	Thank you to the Minister for replying and for the debate with colleagues. The Minister's answer shows that the urgency is felt and that the balance we are all looking for in this Chamber has been found to a large extent. The core remains: is an action a risk to national security? As far as the VVD is concerned, that is the only right anchor, to stay in the nautical terms. I also welcome the Minister's commitment that she will take a broader look at whether the objective of the law is being achieved and whether other instruments can or should be used to ensure national security. It is also good that she wants to advance the evaluation, so after two or three years, with that broader view. We are pleased that the Minister is fully committed to ensuring that entrepreneurs, including the good headlines in the start-ups, are sufficiently aware of the legislative proposal. I can easily imagine that this point is also raised in the early evaluation. Finally. We are reassured by the Minister's response to the locational climate and the investment climate, because it seems that we are more precise and transparent than other Member States. Then we have an advantage or then we do get the wind out of the other one's sails, and that's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u103	Thank you for your second term, too. Finally, Mr Kwint of the Socialist Party has the floor from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can be quite brief, because we do see the importance of restricting certain takeovers for the sake of national security; absolutely. I think we are using a slightly different definition when it comes to how broad that national security should be seen. I don't think you can handle that one-two-three with a motion. That is why we have tried, among other things, with an amendment. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this one more time. We can differ on how broad you can define that national security. That's fine. That's okay. I don't mind if a proposal from me doesn't reach a majority. I can tell you that in my position this is a phenomenon that is not entirely unknown. But in this case I simply do not understand it, because I believe that the proposal we are making is in line with the wishes of a majority in the Chamber and this cabinet. This is precisely what this law aims to do, namely to prevent the leaking of knowledge or the emergence of strategic dependencies. You can also become strategically dependent when your own business is damaged in crucial areas. This can occur not only when the company is sold, but also when it is damaged. I think we see this more often around us. In my view, this could be a sensible way of tackling that problem. I would therefore like to suggest to the Minister that we take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u105	Mr Graus has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u106	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Kwint was, I thought, the only one who was kind of on my line to broaden it. That's what I understood from his story. But now Mr. Kwint says: well, to take that in a motion now... Suppose that the motion I am making to broaden it if a majority of the House achieves, then such a motion is decisive and good. That's right, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u108	Oh, no, it wasn't meant to be some kind of overflowing criticism towards Mr Graus. I said it more to indicate why I did not table a motion on this. After all, the definition of "national security" is simply laid down in the law. That was my problem. I think I should have tabled an amendment. Unless we continue to discuss national security and national interest at another time, how to make the various considerations and how best to achieve them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u109	Look, I really like and eagerly use such a motion, and that's not just because on an A4's everything is often clear. It is always nice to be able to show your constituents what your requests have been. Moreover, they can, of course, also pass through the Chamber. But it is also like I said: the parliamentary committees of inquiry and committees of inquiry really look at what Members of Parliament have actually done to prevent anything. That turned out to be the same with the De Wit Committee, your party colleague De Wit. A lot of Members of Parliament had not acted in good time, they had not acted decisively and they had not acted properly. So if you are worried about me as much as I am: supporting a motion can prevent a lot of misery in the future, even if it does not reach a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u110	I am painfully aware of the extent to which a parliamentary inquiry is carried out, even if it is only because the chairman of the parliamentary inquiry I am part of is sitting right next to me. I know that it is a lot of work and I know that it is being looked at very thoroughly. But I can assure Mr Graus that without the threat of a parliamentary inquiry I will read his motions carefully and see what I will do with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr De Jong also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u112	Yes, Mr. Chairman, apart from the fact that I'm learning an incredible amount again. Mr Kwint is talking about broadening. In his view, the law is broader than the minister who interpreted it. He has also made a number of proposals for this. He makes one of them in the form of an amendment. In the first term, I told him that I sympathize with him when it comes to the question of when you take a hold in the cash and when an acquiring party can cause damage by hollowing out the reserves or otherwise. I am very pleased that Mr Kwint is with the EZK committee today, but I would also like to suggest to him that we discuss this further. I agree with the Minister that this is not the place. I would like to talk further about how we deal with our business and how we prevent companies from being vulnerable by pumping new debt into the company, by burdening it with debt, or by undermining equity. Because I agree with the Minister that there is already a great deal of opportunity for all companies to prevent this. But I think it is quite right that Mr Kwint should be encouraged. That is why I would like to ask him to reconsider this at a later date at this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u113	I do not know if I agree that there are enough things to prevent that at the moment. We have also seen in very different sectors, for example in the childcare sector, I am going to draw on the things that I myself have had to deal with, that it is the opposite. This is not about a hold of the cash, but about debt-bearing, for example. Certain financing structures are damn hard to ward off. It's not that easy. But more importantly, the reason why I want to make this proposal here again, I would like to talk to you about it in a broader sense too, is because I think it fits here, because it is about national security. It's not because we couldn't do without one company, but because we can lose specific knowledge developed by one company in the Netherlands when that company is damaged. That is why I would like to deal with this specific possible infringement of an acquisition by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u114	I understand that, but then I conclude from my side that the amendment is not far-reaching enough. You actually want to be able to intervene very directly with companies. But we do not agree here what a reserve is, which is a silent reserve, or where actual erosion takes place by changing finances. That's pretty complex stuff. I don't think that's gonna work out here. We are looking at the Minister, who may still be able to reflect somewhat on that. Then I'll stick to the position of picking this up again later. Your vision is clear to me, but I do not see how we can make it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u115	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u116	Then I'm curious about the Minister's response. If she comes to the conclusion that D66 is right to conclude that my proposal to restrict the free market on this point does not go far enough, I can find you. Then I will see to it that there is a further proposal coming your way. Maybe we can do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u117	Thank you for your contribution in second term. This also completes the Court's second-term contribution. The Minister has indicated that he can proceed directly in his second term. It will also give an appreciation of the four motions that I believe have been tabled. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I'll walk by them. The first motion is the motion in part No. 12 by Mr Van Haga and Mr Smolders. This motion is mainly about monitoring the duration of the procedure and about intervention if the time limit is exceeded. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Timely procedures and rapid settlement are also my goal. If it takes too long, I will take action, for example by increasing capacity. Of course, that requires that we have all the information we need to make a decision, but we can speed it up. So judge Chamber for this motion. Then the motion to part No. 13, on an overall evaluation after two years. I have already indicated that after two years I can do a slight evaluation. This concerns, for example, the impact on the investment environment, the picture of the overall experience, the number of notifications and the review decisions. At least I'll take that into account. So that's a commitment so I can give the motion judgment chamber. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Dijk also asked the government to explore instruments to protect sites such as company campuses or regional research and innovation ecosystems under the Vifo Act. So it's really about investigating it. I would also like to give this motion a Chamber of Appeal. I'll take the motion in such a way that there are concerns. I recognise them and would also like to examine them, certainly in order to see what measures could be appropriate in order to obtain effective instruments. Then the motion to part No. 15 by Mr Graus. Well, as far as I'm concerned, that's a bit of a search. It's too broad. In addition to national security, the motion also calls for matters such as food security to be brought under the Vifo Act. This does not improve the law, nor is it proportionate. We should also remember that the law also has a major impact on investors. Moreover, we are given stronger powers to intervene, which we really only want to do in the case of heavy public interests. That's how we defined it. So for that reason, I have to discourage the motion. So I'm not doing that because I don't like the objectives of what Mr. Graus is aiming at, but because it doesn't fit in with this law. Then I have to respond to a point raised by Mr Kwint. I shall come back to that in a moment, because that was not quite clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u120	I'll pick him up. I just got it handed to me, Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the Quint amendment to suspend dividends and payments. I'm sticking to my position that I'm deceiving it. If an investor is suspended in his voting rights, he does not decide whether a dividend is being paid, or that kind of business. So he's losing some of his control. It goes too far that I agree with Mr De Jong that we should now discuss the very broad spectrum of protection structures here, because that is just another conversation we need to have. If the Chamber so wishes, I certainly think it would be useful to do so once, because the risk is, of course, present. Only, I believe we have a repertoire to act against. The amendment in part No. Nine, I'm telling you, I don't know. Then I come to two outstanding questions, just to make it complete. There was an open question from Mrs Van Dijk about the LNV study on the vitality assessment of the food value chain. It is true that I have said that LNV is doing that research. They expect to deliver that assessment on 1 August 2022 and inform the Court accordingly. If that assessment shows that the food supply is identified as a vital process, it will be brought under the scope of the Vifo Act via an AMvB. Then I'll get to the payment period. Mr Kwint was concerned that if the information did not come, the procedure would be frustrated. If we request information from the acquirer, the review period will be suspended. I didn't have that very sharp. But that, I think, gives the guarantee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u121	Thank you very much. There was another question, namely the date on which the letter you promised was due. Oh, that's what Mr Van Strien wants to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u122	That's right. That is the letter on the location climate plus the future economy, which would take into account the questions that the CDA and we have asked about the campus strategy. It was supposed to come in the first quarter. That's over by now. You indicated that you wanted to have a realistic term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u123	Yeah, unfortunately it's left behind. We're now mid-April. Shall we agree that that letter will come in May? Then I'm just gonna do my best to make it work. I'm getting "for the summer" from my officials, but we're aiming for May. They are now very happy with that in the other room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u124	Otherwise, I'd like to do it by means of rappels, but I'm sure I'll be fine. In view of the importance of today's debate and the arguments that have been exchanged, let us also point out that one of the most important points in the debate is campus strategy. So let's just make progress on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u125	Once, I agree with Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u126	Thank you. This commitment is clear to everyone too. That integral letter, which also specifically deals with campuses, will be sent to the Chamber in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u127	I thank the Minister and her staff for their reply. I thank the members and their staff for their input. Four amendments and four motions have been tabled. That's what we're gonna vote on Tuesday, including the bill. I am going to suspend the sitting for some time, because the next debate will be on the corrective referendum. That will take place at 4 p.m. Oh, sorry. I was a little too fast. It is not a debate on the corrective referendum, it is a two-minute debate. It starts at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u128	Can't you bring that debate forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-13-tweedekamer-9.u129	No. I have received signals that I was not allowed to raise the debate. I shall suspend the sitting until 4 p.m. I thank everyone.
