ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35216, Amendment of the Environmental Tax Act and the Environmental Management Act for the introduction of a minimum CO price for electricity generation, the Law on minimum CO price for electricity generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad the colors of Ukraine are in this room. A word in advance. The bill now before us today has been decided in the Rutte III coalition agreement. This proposal was also discussed at the electricity table, part of the Climate Agreement, which I chaired at the time at the request of Minister Wiebes. That everyone knows that. Mr President, then the context of this legislative proposal. The horrible war that Vladimir Putin started twelve days ago in Ukraine is causing deep abdominal pain to everyone, as well as the fraction of GroenLinks. The human tragedy in which the Ukrainian people have ended up is unimaginable. Significant sanctions have rightly been issued by the European Union and the Netherlands, pressure is being put on diplomatic solutions and help is being given to the Ukrainian people. And we can see that's a link to this bill, which is hugely increasing gas prices. Mr. Chairman. Last week, the IPCC, the UN Climate Panel, again issued a new report on climate change. That was equally terrifying. Climate change is going even faster than thought and with significantly more impact on ecosystems, societies and opportunities for people. The outcome of the climate summit in Glasgow 1.5 degree temperature increase must really be the maximum. The transition must therefore be much faster, also because the IPCC mercilessly shows that opportunities for adaptation to higher temperatures, even within that 1.5 degree, are much lower than expected. And, I add, on my own authority, all the emissions that the world still has to afford, the remaining carbon budget corresponding to 1.5 degree maximum temperature increase, has already been financed today. It's all in the books. So every new fossil project in the world is now too much. So we need to stop new fossil projects now. Not tomorrow, but now. I would ask the Minister for Climate and Energy to give a brief response to the IPCC report and the conclusion that I now draw. Here too, the link to this bill is obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u4	I hear Mr Vendrik say that it is getting even more serious with this warming, it is going even harder, the latest results of the IPCC indicate that it is getting even more dramatic. I wonder, however, if it is scientifically established at some point that global warming is there, how can it be done in months' time to adjust those figures? How is that even possible? Every few months we hear that the situation is even more urgent than it was a few months ago. How is that possible, I ask Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I hope Mr Van Strien has read the IPCC report, 6,500 pages. Thousands of scientists around the world have been working on this for years. What this IPCC report is doing is, as it were, drawing the conclusions that are now ripe to draw and publish conclusions based on scientific research from the years ahead. That's what's happening here, and that's how the IPCC's been working for 30 years. And indeed, it is true, for 30 years now, a message that you have systematically ignored has been told to an increasing extent for 30 years how fast climate change is going. This time it was about the impact of climate change and in particular about the opportunities of people and societies all over the world to adapt to it. That was the focus of this report. That's what I said. So that was even more serious than we heard from the IPCC a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u6	I've been active in science for a few years. I can remember that if you invented something at some point and made a publication of it, it would seem very strange if that same publication was obsolete after a few months. How the hell is that possible? How come you have to change those numbers again and again? How is that possible? What kind of science is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u7	So I note that Mr Van Strien did not read that report. I've just explained what's in there and where it's coming from. No figures are adjusted after a few months. Last year, the IPCC launched a report on maximum permissible climate change. Paris said 2 degrees, as much as 1.5. Based on last year's report, Glasgow said it must be 1.5. That was about mitigation, reducing emissions. Now there's gonna be another report that's close to here. This is about the ability of ecosystems, of societies, of people, to adapt to conditions of rising temperatures. That's a new investigation. That's what years of scientific work are behind thousands of people around the world. They come to the conclusion that perhaps we need to be even more careful with that global temperature increase, because the ability to adjust, even within 1.5 degrees, is much lower than we thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u9	I will leave it at that, because I cannot get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr van Strien has received a very clear answer from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u11	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u12	It would be nice if the PVV Group would listen to science for once. Especially when Mr Van Strien himself has walked around in science he knows the value of science. This is the best the world has to offer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u13	Please continue your argument, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u14	Listen to me, for the sake of your children and grandchildren too, Mr. Van Strien. That would be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u15	Mr. Vendrik, please continue your speech through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u16	Okay, Mr. Chairman. The one about the IPCC. Mr. Chairman. Both Putin's war and the climate emergency situation in which we find ourselves led to exactly the same conclusion: the climate and energy transition must now be brought to the highest level. Indeed, the best way to stop using Russia's and Putin's war cash is to reduce gas consumption significantly by much faster roll-out of renewable electricity and by significant savings on the use of electricity, because the gas is removed from Gazprom, from Rosneft. A small 20% of the Dutch gas decrease currently concerns Russian gas. The GroenLinks Group in the Lower House and the European Greens have now put forward comprehensive plans on how this radical acceleration should look. This was also done by the Dutch Association for Renewable Energy. Yesterday, the International Energy Agency did it. I also understand that today, tomorrow, the European Commission is coming up with a plan, RepowerEU, which is actually thinking in the same direction. I invite the Minister for Climate and Energy to respond to this. I would like to ask that it sometimes seems to fall from the edge of the table to pay particular attention to the great potential that exists today for energy saving. That is the very first solution to be tried: less use. There can and must be much more. I'd like a response from the Minister. So I would also like to hear an appreciation from the cabinet, as far as possible, for the plan that the European Union is coming up with these days. Mr. Chairman. I also ask the cabinet about Russia's dependence on uranium. Global demand is provided for 35% from materials originating in Russia. So we're not just talking about gas if we want to become independent of Russia. So we're also talking about uranium. I ask the Minister for Climate and Energy to confirm that. I ask him to explain what this is about for Europe and the Netherlands, even though we have only one nuclear power station in Borssele. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. We are talking here today about minimum prices. It is not also time to take an initiative, I ask the Minister for Climate and Energy, for a maximum price for gas. The Gas Directive provides scope for this in exceptional circumstances. That seems to be the case today. What is the state of mind in the cabinet on this point? It is clearly important for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that the cabinet should make an extreme effort to avoid, in particular, the families with energy poverty. We have had this debate last year in response to rising energy prices. That's more important now than ever. The cabinet must take action on this: sustainable transition, energy saving and helping people who do not yet see it in the wallet today, the families with energy poverty. I'd like to hear the cabinet give a response. Mr. Chairman. This bill, too, must serve the rapid transition. The proposal for a minimum CO price provides for a floor of the price per tonne of CO emissions that electricity producers have to pay for emissions from electricity production. When the Rutte III government agreement was concluded in autumn 2017, the aim of the law was a national major correction to the European ETS, which for years, due to extremely heavy lobbying of companies in Brussels, hardly generated serious prices. In the year that this bill entered into the coalition agreement, it was roughly €5. For the sake of understanding, if you really want to internalize all the costs of climate change in prices, that's ultimately the intention of the ETS, too, we're talking about probably €250 per tonne. Especially with the latest IPCC report, we can see the phenomenal damage caused by CO emissions. The chosen price path in the Rutte III coalition agreement from then, from €18 to €43 in 2030, was still rather modest. The minimum price has been created to correct at national level what went wrong in Europe. Priced at least at national minimum would improve the functioning of the electricity market and become renewable in a better competitive position, as economies of scale arise, and public subsidies could be terminated. Very good. But why is that only as a transition theory for the electricity sector, I ask the Minister for Climate and Energy. That actually applies to the whole ETS, isn't it? Why is it not there and has a minimum price been introduced, including for industry, the other ETS sector? Why is the operation of this bill limited to the electricity sector? Why isn't that scope widened? Are the new rulers of Rutte IV planning to take this step now? Mr. Chairman. In 2018, studies by PBL and Frontier Economics indicated that small price differences between production costs of the Netherlands and Germany in particular could shift electricity production from gas-fired production in the Netherlands to polluting production in Germany in particular. This could also, in the long term, affect the security of supply, according to these reports. The government and social parties agreed in the Climate Agreement to choose a more conservative price path to mitigate the risk of this unwanted outcome. This has given the minimum price a slightly different character, namely the provision of security to investors, as I read in the documents of the cabinet. Can the government explain that further? Security for who? So what's the policy theory behind this bill? It is important that there is also a new government agreement in Germany. By the way, they did that a lot faster than here, while the coalition agreement there is three times thicker than the Dutch coalition agreement. Political productivity difference, let's just say. That's what happens when you rule out green parties in formation. It is now important that a minimum CO price for the electricity sector is also announced in the government agreement in Germany. If national soil is proposed an amount of €60 if there is no European minimum price, I understand. I am curious about how the cabinet assesses this new German arrangement and what its implications may be for the present bill and the chosen price path. After all, it was mainly the relocation to German more polluting production that was at the time challenged by Frontier. With a national minimum price of €60, that danger has disappeared. It could even be the other way around. Is this how the government sees it? And if so, is a higher price path in the Netherlands, in the form of this bill, which at least corresponds to the German proposal, not logical? Is the Cabinet going to do the same? This also affects the evaluation in 2023 that the amendment tabled by Mrs Grinwis in the House of Representatives included in the legislative proposal. How does the Cabinet view this new situation regarding the agreement under the Climate Agreement? Finally, a technical question. Can the government explain again here? I could not fully follow the explanation in the House of Representatives. How exactly were the revenues of the CO-minimum price estimated at the time for the coalition agreement, rising to more than 600 million in 2030, which will not be realised now, included in the budget? I would like clarification from the cabinet on this. The main route was, is and remains a strong European ETS. The previous cabinet considered that a European minimum price should preferably be introduced, and otherwise a national one. Germany feels the same way now. What is the position of this new cabinet now? Mr President, one final comment. It is more obvious than ever that the sustainability of electricity production must be made much faster. We already know that 2050 is far too late for all sectors. That's what you do. That's where you come in when you take Glasgow seriously. It's possible. Renewable production is now much cheaper than it was ten years ago. It's gaining sight; it's going fast. Minister, open the crane wide, in combination with considerable savings. My group wants the entire electricity production in the Netherlands to be sustainable by 2035. Does the cabinet see this as a new goal? In that case, the proposal for a minimum CO price is still relevant for 13 years. The limited sustainability of this bill would therefore be a very large profit overall. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Van Strien, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last year, the International Energy Agency, the IEA, set out in the annual World Energy Outlook in anticipation of the Glasgow Climate Summit that there is a urgent need to withdraw fossil investments. In order to limit the alleged global warming, the production of new fore-earth coal, oil and gas should stop immediately. The IEA was founded in 1973, during the first oil crisis, by the Western countries to coordinate problems in times of oil shortage. A better example of an international organisation which has completely lost its way and has completely strayed from its original objective is hardly to be found. This is caused by countries dropping their left-wing job hunters in that kind of organization. Our Prime Minister Rutte then signed a declaration of 26 countries at that climate conference in Glasgow, promising to stop investing in foreign fossil energy projects. In practice, these are export credits with state guarantees. The Netherlands still has relatively many companies active in the fossil sector. These are not only oil companies, but also dredging companies and maritime companies. The successive Rutte governments are doing their utmost to bully these companies out of the country. Shell is not the first company, nor is it the last company that has lifted its heels. Boskalis is already in doubt. The only lasting thing about the Rutte Cabinets is therefore the sustainable disruption of society. The production and distribution by Western oil and gas companies and the search for new stocks are shifting in favour of the producing countries. These, however, increase their production, conversion and distribution with much less scruples and a lot more pollution. The non-Western producing countries do little or no exploration and the western oil companies are scared to death by the fat-subsidised NGOs, should they not stop producing soon enough. You can already tell by the fuel prices where that leads. Rising fuel prices are not only caused by shortages, but also by rising CO prices. As the scarcity of fossil energy sources did not increase rapidly enough, a CO levy has been introduced at EU level since 2005. More than 400 Dutch companies are already participating. The levy is needed to make the expensive renewable energy projects competitive. Under normal circumstances, they would not stand a chance. The annual permitted CO emissions under this system are now being reduced by 2.2% per year. All these costs are, of course, simply charged and thus end up with the consumer. In addition to this, the government is now introducing a national CO levy: a minimum price for electricity generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u19	May I ask Mr Van Strien a question? Do you have solar panels on your roof?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u20	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u21	Why does the Netherlands have the largest number of solar panels in the world per capita? Because it's not profitable? You say that renewable energy is not profitable. Have you noticed that people are now isolating their homes and doing a lot of energy saving? That's all profitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u22	Isolation is certainly profitable. It was 30 years ago. About 40 years ago, it was already seen that around 30% of the energy consumption is for space heating. That was then. At that time, it was clear that isolation is very beneficial. All these years, it has never been taken into account that very much could be saved on space heating if houses are built on the south. In Germany, subsidies on solar panels are even higher. There's more solar panels over there. They are largely subsidised. I do not see exactly what Mr Crone's question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u23	At least you know how to get around it, I tell you through the President. I asked a simple question. It is very profitable to invest in renewable energy now, for both companies and families. You're talking about science. You just had an interesting little debate about that. 30 years ago, the predictions were wrong. There is an exponential reduction in all costs for all forms of renewable energy, which means that a lot of people themselves say: I don't want fossil anymore, but I want sustainable. This applies to solar panels, insulation and wind energy. You know it: it can make you rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u24	What is your question now, Mr Crone? Or was this it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u25	The question is whether Mr Van Strien acknowledges that this is profitable, because he keeps saying: we invest in something non-profitable, and fossil is so cheap. It's not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u26	That question has been answered, I believe, but perhaps Mr Van Strien has a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u27	The profitability of a large number of projects is to a large extent obscured by the huge subsidies on them. That's problem one. Problem two of all alternative energy projects is that they do not supply continuous power to energy. That's another problem. In the case of wind energy and solar energy, this is increasingly a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you. Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u29	There is no subsidy on solar panels in the Netherlands. You know that better than anyone. There's a lot of subsidies on the fossil industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u30	I suggest you continue your argument, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u31	In addition to this, the government is now introducing a national CO levy and a minimum price for electricity generation. What's the purpose of this? I quote from the explanatory statement. "The aim is to encourage companies producing electricity to a greater extent to take into account in their choices the impact of CO emissions on the climate and its harmful consequences for humans and the environment." With this, I would like to quote again: 'take a leading role in Europe, encouraging other EU Member States to pursue more ambitious energy and climate policies'. Mr. Chairman. You can't think of anything crazier. Now this delusion of grandeur has been invented under the previous Rutte cabinet. My questions to this Minister and Secretary of State are, therefore, whether they agree that we are an example for Europe with this law, and whether they think that Europe will take any interest in this. Mr. Chairman. The question is, of course, whether this law will actually be effective. The price per tonne of CO has now risen so far that it is well above the price path mentioned in this law. One thing is certain: prices for gas and electricity have risen enormously and continue to rise. It was before the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In the case of electricity, this is mainly due to an increase in CO price, i.e. artificial. If you think seriously that CO is a problem, you might think that plans are being made to build nuclear power plants, but I haven't seen any of that yet. An important problem here is that the European Commission is constantly making proposals to adapt the decision-making process on energy and climate policy, in particular in the area of taxation. The Commission intends, inter alia, to have qualified majority voting in these areas and, above all, to introduce tax through a CO levy. Mr. Chairman. Combine this with white-hot money presses in Frankfurt, the price explosion caused by the energy transition of the metals lithium, copper, nickel and cobalt, which play an important role in the production of wind and solar energy and on which Europe has no control whatsoever, and you have the most toxic cocktail to help the economy in general and the purchasing power of the ordinary Dutchman in particular to the filistines. That was already the case before the regrettable Russian invasion of Ukraine. I have not yet mentioned the huge cost of energy infrastructure and energy storage, which is caused by the fact that all these renewable energy projects are literally as unreliable as the weather. Meanwhile, the number of people living in energy poverty is already around half a million. And the average gas and electricity bill for their own home is expected to continue to rise this year, not only because of the war in Ukraine, but also because of taxes to a large extent. Charges, taxes on taxes, all necessary to continue to pay subsidies for so-called renewable energy projects. Projects because science has democratically established that the temperature of the earth is rising, that we are the cause of this and that the end is near. How different it was in the 1970s. At that time, the opinion of the majority of scientists was different. The most famous quote is in the 1975 Newsweek article "The Cooling World," which stated that the cooling-off of the earth would mean a dramatic decline in food production. I quote: "Although meteorological experts do not agree on the cause and extent of the degree of cooling, they are almost unanimous in their view that this cooling-off will reduce the productivity of agriculture over the rest of the century." The article "Another Ice Age?" in Time from 1974 sketches a similar sad picture. I quote: "During the last 30 years, the average temperature of the atmosphere has gradually decreased and this trend does not show any tendency to rise again. In these weather deviations, the prophecies of the monarchs among the weather experts increasingly see the preludes of a new ice age." Well, it can be true that scientists are democratically deciding what the truth is. The PVV doesn't get carried away by the delusion of the day and doesn't see anything in CO pricing or minimum CO prices. I am happy to wait for the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Ester, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group warmly welcomes the new Secretary of State. I have good memories of his time as a senator and look forward to our cooperation in this period. Its unmistakable expertise on tax issues will be urgently needed, given the policy challenges that arise in its field. I am thinking just of the much-needed system reform and the box 3 problems. A warm welcome to Minister Jetten. It is good that he is present today at this debate in the First Chamber. After all, it is a question of making electricity companies more sustainable. We wish both the Secretary of State and the Minister much wisdom and strength in the coming undoubtedly turbulent years. The members of the Christian Union Group stress the importance and urgency of pricing greenhouse gas emissions from electricity generation. The polluter pays principle is our starting point. This principle is also guiding us in assessing the legislative proposal before us. The climate agreement rightly calls for a tax on CO emissions, including from the energy sector, from companies producing electricity. For my group, energy savings and emission reductions are decisive for an effective climate policy. The Netherlands must reduce dependence on fossil fuels at a rapid pace if it is to meet the Paris and European Green Deal climate targets. The electricity sector plays an essential role in all of this. Calculations show that the share of electricity producing companies in the Dutch CO emissions is about a quarter. Fair emissions tax is therefore fair fiscal policy. The coalition agreement is clear on this. It aims to strengthen the incentives for sustainability by increasing the marginal tax on top of the price of the European emissions trading system, the ETS. This approach already applied to the previous cabinet, under whose regime this bill has been tabled, in order to create security for parties in consultation with the neighbouring countries. My group's first question is what is going on with the coordination of Member States. Is there a solid coalition, or is every country going for itself? Is there a consensus on this marginal tax? Does the European Commission really have a role to play here? The reply states that the Netherlands is the only country with an additional minimum CO price in addition to the EU ETS. The members of the Christian Union Group would like to hear what has actually been the reason for this exception. Given that the ETS is a European system, it could have been considered to initiate the minimum price for CO emissions from Brussels and apply to all EU countries. That would have made the playing field more even. How does the Secretary of State and the Minister assess the subsidiarity of this approach? The second question is why an overarching CO-minimum price has not been chosen from the outset for all industrial companies and sectors covered by the ETS emissions system. I think the Council of State is right to point this out. The bill is limited to companies that generate electricity. Why this sectoral restriction, my group asks. In addition, the government agreement states that the intended increase in the marginal levy and the rising bottom price is reflected in the climate fund for the sustainability of businesses. This concerns in particular research and innovation on climate-neutral technologies. Can the Minister share some more context and details with the Chamber on this point? What will be the spearheads and priorities? And what amounts are we talking about? Mr. Chairman. Taxing CO emissions is a good thing, but will only be effective if the marginal tax is substantial. And that's where he's getting the hang of it. The proposed levy is far, very far below the ETS price that the electricity sector now has to set. That is the Achilles heel of the Christian Union Group in this debate. The levy will rise from €12.30 in 2020 to €29 in 2029 per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent. In addition, the annual tariff difference in the early years is somewhat lower than in subsequent years. The levy will enter into force if the ETS price falls below that minimum rate. Until recently, the ETS price was around €96. That wasn't too long ago, just a few weeks. That is almost seven times the tax rate proposed by the Cabinet in 2021 and almost ten times higher than the ETS prices of only five years ago. I note that the Russian invasion has put heavy pressure on the ETS price. This is caused by increased liquidity needs of investors due to higher energy prices, anticipating demand reduction and snowball effects. However, the long-term developments, according to ING earlier this week, continue to point towards substantially higher ETS prices. All this leads to the question to the Secretary of State and the Minister whether the bill is simply overtaken by the ETS price development. What is the view of the electricity sector of the proposed levy? My group notes that the proposed charges for the electricity sector are well below the tariff path for CO emissions from our country's industry. Prices apply to the industrial sector from €30 in 2021 to as much as €125 per tonne of CO in 2030. Moreover, the level of these rates is also significantly below the current ETS prices. Can the directors explain this remarkable difference in tariffs between electricity companies and industrial companies? Isn't there a certain level of tariff unification required? Shouldn't there also be a level playing field here? Germany also has a minimum price for CO emissions for various fossil fuels. Mr Vendrik already mentioned that. These prices range from €25 in 2021 to around €55 to €65 in 2026. Once again that is below the Dutch rate. The new German coalition agreement indicates that the minimum price will not fall under the €60 in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u34	I have a question in response to Mr Ester's question about what is happening in the electricity and industry sectors. He asked for a kind of synchronisation of the two charges, in terms of height, but I think we are talking about different types of charges. The minimum price, provided that the ETS is below the price path, is a flat charge on all emissions. It is true that industry is talking about a literally marginal tax, which is only in excess of a allocated carbon budget. They are therefore different types of charges. That makes the demand for synchronization and comparability a different one than Mr Ester suggested, I think. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u35	That might be possible, but I notice that these rates are so different. I ask the rulers, in all simplicity, why that is and whether a certain level playing field is not needed, precisely in order to create a level playing field. I understand the comments you have made very well, but I would like to hear a response from the two rulers on this point. I think they're gonna be interested in this, too. But thank you for your question. My group is certainly aware of the disadvantages of a high minimum rate for electricity companies. I mention relocation abroad of companies and security of supply of electricity. But now it seems to me that the balance is far from being reached, even in comparison with the industrial sector as such, which we have just talked about. I would like a reflection of the rulers on this point. Are my follow-up question from research agency Frontier Economics, which did research on CO pricing a few years ago, actually still apply? How do they assess the effectiveness of this very low marginal minimum tax? Isn't the tax simply too limited to be applied? What is the assessment of the evolution of ETS prices over the next decade? Will there be permanent volatility or a certain stabilisation? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group sees tension between the strong climate ambitions of this cabinet and the somewhat poor minimum CO price imposed on the electricity sector in this bill. Do the rulers recognize this tension relationship? How do they consider that the PBL, the planning agency, does not have a direct reduction effect on the proposed price path and expects little benefit from the target? The climate damage caused by the sector, the planning agency concludes, is greater than the current CO price. And now a few additional questions about the bill. For example, it is still not clear to my group why the Tax Administration is not being held responsible for collecting the levy from the Dutch Emission Authority NEa. The Council of State also made critical comments and did not find the cabinet considerations convincing. Can the Secretary of State explain the added value of the chosen construction again? Doesn't that actually limit his own direction? The light incentive of the CO-minimum price is legitimised by the cabinet, among other things, by the fear that a firmer incentive will lead to the relocation of electricity production abroad. Do the rulers have any idea that that fear is also justified? What does it actually show that relocation of business abroad is a real scenario? Doesn't this also make sense for European intervention? Indeed, such an exit decision is not easy and is not taken by companies on an afternoon-to-day basis. Relocation investments are far-reaching. In addition to these considerations, the security of supply of electricity is reasonably guaranteed according to TenneT's research. The European Commission, we all know, has recently launched the comprehensive "Fit for 55" package. What impact will this have on the current EU ETS system? The reply indicates that this package will certainly lead to an accelerated reduction in the number of allowances. On this issue, too, the Christian Union Group needs further clarification. What impact will this have on the minimum CO price for electricity generation, including the possible reduction of the emission ceiling? We are also curious how the Secretary of State and the Minister will implement the EU proposal for the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, the CBAM, to prevent carbon leakage at the EU's external borders through a European CO border levy. How are they going to shape the previously adopted CU/D66 motion on ending the free distribution of allowances? Mr President, I will conclude. With the introduction of a minimum tax on CO emissions from electricity companies, a new step is being taken in making the sector more sustainable. That is excellent in itself. However, it is a minimum charge, a small step, a dent in a large package of butter, to put it homely. It is my belief that the electricity levy will not be perceived as a strong incentive that leads to rapid additional investments in sustainability and CO reduction. It is a charge which is not very market-oriented, given the current amounts for allowances. The bill, I say, is simply based on outdated prices. Is it not wise, as the Members of my group ask, to look again critically at the level and intended impact of the proposed levy? In any case, this will have to be part of the planned three-year review. Can the rulers honor this request? Is it not advisable to allow the level of the levy to move, to breathe with the amount of the ETS prices in force? It is wise policy to make this part of the envisaged evaluation. Members would like to hear the evaluation criteria, including in the light of the Grinwis and others amendment. in the Lower House. Mr. Chairman. My group looks forward to the answers of the Secretary of State and the Minister to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u37	Let's see if that dent in the pack of butter can get a little bigger. Would Mr Ester feel that he should say to the cabinet today: okay, a proposal on a CO-minimum price has been agreed, but is compatible with Germany as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u38	Yes, I also dealt with this German issue, as did you. By the way, you should see this in perspective with Germany, because of course that €60 is below the timetable of the Netherlands. So we have to take a critical look at that. But as I said, pulling together is excellent. In fact, it would be much better to do so in Brussels context. But maybe that step will come. That was part of my questions, too. Now it is a bit of a standalone of the Netherlands, a link to Germany, but it is relatively small about Europe. My aim would be to do much more on the European stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u39	There is no doubt that we agree on this: the main route is Europe. Only, at the time, this bill came from the Rutte III government agreement, because it did not work in Europe, thanks to the lobby of companies. That was the case for the ETS, and that was also true for the minimum price. It just didn't come off the ground. Then there's the fallback of a national prize. That is less beautiful, but perhaps a bit effective. Now the question is that we can go up with Germany, precisely because of the price path that Mr Ester says is low, clearly too low. He speaks of a small dent in a pack of butter. Then let's make that dent bigger and invite the cabinet or... order to join the price path in Germany. Let's say do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u40	Yes, but once again, you should also look carefully at the German price path, because I think that is below the Dutch minimum. So that doesn't help us much. You read that and we talked about it. I would be much more in favour of a substantial initiative at European Union level. A few years ago that was not possible, but with all the EU's new proposals and Russia's threat, I think there is now more room for manoeuvre to give Europe a stronger direction. I'd be happy to. I think it is very important to do so and just to invest it much wider in the EU, not just as a one-two between the Netherlands and Germany. Something in me tells me that you very much agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u41	I would like to go on with the dent in the butter package and Mr Vendrik's questions in order to clarify a little bit more precisely what the Christian Union colleague is proposing, also in the light of what has just been changed. Europe is the main route. We may or may not be able to join Germany. But at least that's clear. There's a bill now. There's a price path in there. This is far below the current and also the expected level of allowances in Europe. That's clear. Mr Ester says that this is actually too low. He is actually asking the government to reconsider that, to take a closer look at it. That's how I understood him, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u42	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u43	But the evaluation isn't for another three years. Then this government is once again ruled out. Shouldn't that happen sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u44	Yeah, I wouldn't be against that at all if we could seduce both rulers to do that a little earlier. But at first I am very interested in the answer to the question whether both rulers share my analysis. That is a bit ambivalent, because in recent days the ETS price has fallen from €96 to €60. So that's extremely moving. We must therefore take that into account in its entirety, but we will hear from the rulers what their approach is. My approach, that the levy is too low, seems obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u45	In any case, Mr Ester and I are very much in agreement. I am also asking this because an amendment has been tabled in the House of Representatives to change the price path in the case of ministerial regulations. That amendment didn't make it. If you want to increase the price path, it is now far too low; so does Mr Ester, and I agree with him, so you should do so by amending the law. Or at least the current legislative proposal takes three years to look at it. If you want to do it sooner, I think you need to introduce a law change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u46	Your story is clear and my story is clear. Let us wait and see what both rulers have to say about this. Then we will make up our mind, just as you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u47	I wonder whether Mr Ester realises that a plea for an increase in the minimum price is also a plea for an increase in energy prices in the Netherlands and whether he supports this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u48	I understand what you're saying. Saying goodbye to a fossil economy is going to cost money, macro, but also micro. The question then is how much the impact is and whether we can do something about it in a compensatory way. I feel your pain, but I think we need to deal with it in a sensible way. The starting point is that saying goodbye to the fossil economy for my party and for other parties is very essential, very essential, but if I have listened carefully to you, we do not share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u49	I note that saying goodbye to fossil energy is so heavy that it is no problem for the Christian Union that there are already 500,000 families living in energy poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u50	That levy is very low............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I also think that we should move towards a slightly higher levy in order to actually tempt those electricity-producing companies to become more sustainable. That is, of course, the starting point, but I do not think you are entirely in agreement with that approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u51	Finally, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u52	I agree with the last thing Mr Ester says. I agree that we do not agree with this, because we find this situation totally unacceptable. We believe that any increase in energy prices is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mr Berkhout has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Today, the Wet minimum CO price is ahead of electricity generation. My group is not against the price of CO emissions and in favour of the mitigation of CO effects through marketable CO emission allowances. However, my group is also in favour of market forces in this sector and believes that the proper functioning of markets is at odds with unnecessary regulatory pressure and the proposal to set a minimum price for CO for electricity generation seems to us to be a clear example of this. There is already a system for the pricing of CO, namely the EU Emission Trading System, which in itself is already a fairly strict restriction on this market. Furthermore, this system also provides for emission limits, as the volume of issuance of marketable CO emission allowances is decreasing periodically. This implies that a decrease in the price of CO emissions is most likely not to be considered for the time being. This makes this bill superfluous, all the more so because the price of allowances has been well above the proposed minimum for years. The proposal therefore merely creates unnecessary regulatory pressure and, once again, a potential limitation of the CO emission allowance market. The Council of State also concludes: "Because a price incentive is expected to be lacking for the time being, it is not clear that companies in the electricity sector will be encouraged to reduce their CO emissions." It seems that we want to show how virtuous we are, but in a somewhat curious way. We might as well have introduced a maximum speed of 50 kilometres per hour for runners here today. Apart from that, there are risks to the delivery guarantee and the Netherlands is the only EU country, as far as I have been able to verify, that wants to introduce this levy. Can the Minister confirm that? Therefore, should the price fall, even though it is highly unlikely to be lower than the floor or minimum price envisaged by this proposal, this would reduce the competitive position of Dutch companies. The single market's level playing field disappears. To sum up, this seems to us to be an unnecessary legislative proposal, which comes from regulation. Let this market do its job in order to achieve the desired results. That is the intention of the EU Emission Trading System, isn't it? Furthermore, it is of the utmost importance for my group to increase the energy security of the Netherlands. In connection with this legislative proposal, which concerns security of supply, we are therefore considering a motion aimed at increasing energy security, also in the light of the current situation in Eastern Europe. First, however, we want to give the Minister the opportunity to take away our concerns. Is the Minister prepared to allow Dutch coal plants to produce 100% of their capacity again through coal in order to guarantee our energy security? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I have no further questions for the rulers and it is clear to the good understander what our voting behaviour will be. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr. Berkhout. Mrs Prast has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next time March 8th falls on a Tuesday is in 2033. So it's special that we're meeting on International Women's Day. Elsewhere, politics is at large at International Women's Day. The Italian President, Mr Mattarelli, spoke to the public this morning on television. The Netherlands can take an example. In the glass ceiling index published yesterday by The Economist, a list of OECD countries where women are well-off, we are in the 21st place, I believe, of the 27 well below the OECD average. Also for the rulers today is a special day, because it is their debut as a ruler in this Chamber. It must be a strange sensation to defend a tax proposal of which the expected revenue between now and 2030 is zero, and I think after that too. I'd have given them another bill. The good news is that this bill underlines the useful role of this Chamber. Look forward to the future, according to the pleonasm in the title of the coalition agreement. To put this bill in perspective, I'm going back in time. Environmental pollution is priced by the introduction of a minimum price in the electricity sector. These are words that the Minister will know, because they come from the Rutte III coalition agreement, which he was actively involved in. In the context of greening the tax system, that agreement announced a minimum price for CO from €18 in 2020, rising to €43 in 2030. A binding minimum price was then, because the market price was not yet €10. The government parties therefore calculate a nice tax revenue, ranging from 220 million in 2020 to 620 million in structural terms per year from 2030. This revenue would be redirected back to citizens and businesses, to small consumers. This would be particularly convenient today, with vulnerable families in particular having trouble paying their energy bills. When the bill was drafted in 2019, the market price had already increased to €25. Instead of raising the minimum price, the cabinet opted for an even lower minimum price than that of the government agreement, i.e. €12 going up to €31. That is also the proposed minimum price path in this legislative proposal. And the market price, colleagues, has already increased to €86 last year. This proposal does not impose any charges and therefore does not send anything back to citizens and businesses. I ask the Secretary of State what he expects to achieve in concrete terms with this bill. He's going to review the law, if it's passed here, after three years. What are the criteria for this? The Secretary of State calls the minimum price a slight incentive. What does he mean by that? How can it be an incentive if the minimum price is not only now, but is also expected to be well below the market price in the long term and the levy will be zero? The Advisory Committee on Regulatory Pressure Review recommended that the legislative proposal should not be submitted at the initial stage because there is insufficient justification for its usefulness and necessity. What did the Cabinet do with this advice? The Council of State, which advises at the end of the journey, wonders how and to what extent the bill contributes to the objective of CO reduction. The cabinet answers this question by saying that investment security can lead to companies investing more in low-carbon technologies. Apart from the vague description and lack of quantification in my view, if investment security is the goal, can this be done with a higher, with an effective minimum CO price? The State Secretary also writes that a higher level of the minimum price entails risks to security of supply through the relocation of production abroad. He refers to what was suggested at the climate tables and to the Frontier Economics analysis. This analysis was also based on what are now obsolete prices: a legal minimum price of €20 now, rising to €40 in 2030, thus higher than is currently proposed. Frontier Economics therefore assumed a levy of more than 60%. Economists have a motto when it comes to models: junk in, junk out. Therefore, referring to a model with outdated assumptions, the conclusions are of course meaningless. TenneT writes in his latest report that there is sufficient security of supply within the Netherlands for the time being and that we can import sufficient electricity in the future if necessary. While there are long-term risks, TenneT considers that these arise from the increasing demand for electricity due to the energy transition and the increasing sensitivity of supply to weather conditions, not the price level. Is it not the case, I ask the directors, that the ability to pass on the risk is the only one and, if so, what will the cabinet do about it? Would it not be appropriate to reduce the total consumption of energy sources and other raw materials in addition to a transition to other energy sources? This would also make us less dependent on countries with which we prefer not to do business. Why does the cabinet focus heavily on economic growth, while the experts stress that it does not go hand in hand with sustainability? I'd like a response. The cabinet writes in the explanatory statement, with a pleonasm squared: the evolution of the emission price has been very volatile in recent years and has thus experienced relatively strong fluctuations in price developments. I'll ask the Secretary of State what he's basing this on. Because the Dutch Emission Authority shows that in recent years there have been slight fluctuations around a steeply rising trend. In corona disaster year 2020 there were some bigger results and of course the war now leaves its mark in the price, but the price is still well above the proposed soil according to this bill. The cabinet uses the fluctuations to underpin the low minimum price. Is the Dutch Emission Authority wrong? I'd like an explanation. The cabinet itself calculates that the proposed minimum CO price will not yield any benefits, but the law does entail implementation costs and regulatory burden. It is half a million euros in one-off costs for the companies concerned and there are implementation costs for the government. They were initially estimated at 3 million a year and then at 1 million a year. How much are the implementation costs if there is no positive levy? The law only applies to electricity-producing companies. Colleague Ester already recalled that. There are over 300 companies in the Netherlands that receive free allowances. Examples of recipients are Shell, chemical group Dow and Tata Steel. The higher the emission price, the higher this implicit subsidy on the emission of CO. According to the Dutch Emission Authority, the total current value of free allowances in the Netherlands last year was EUR 3.4 billion, daily price. I ask the Cabinet, and consider tabling a motion to do so, to introduce a levy on this emission gift and to channel its proceeds back to small consumers: families and businesses. They pay for their electricity and fuel a price far above the environmental damage they cause. The levy should be sufficient to cover the amount promised at the time as a refund of the current law. The good thing is that the Dutch Emission Authority can take charge of the collection, so that the tax administration, among other things, is not affected by the fictitious return. Such a levy, combined with a refund, is fair and effective and is also important through public support for the energy transition. Mr President, I will conclude. In my group's view, a law that does not do what it started out to pay the polluter and thus discourages CO emissions damages the credibility of politics and risks undermining the basis for sustainability. Most people are willing to make sacrifices for charity as long as they are treated fairly. I would like to invite the Secretary of State to explain the usefulness, necessity and proportionality of this bill and look forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I call Mr Crone on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is also a great pleasure to see both rulers here in my first debate. Their fame has accelerated them for a long time. I am also very curious to hear the answers of the Secretary of State in this wider Putin climate which shortcuts will be traced. I have known Mr Jetten for a long time. His fame has advanced him as a very driven climate drag. I am. In that context, I would like to place this draft law, because in these weeks, after the brutal raid, who will care about high energy prices and a higher emission tax? It's also the week of the new IPCC report. It's crystal clear. Fortunately, science is in development. I would like to say to Mr Van Strien that even the predictions of 25 years ago have come true. But then there were uncertainties. The uncertainties have narrowed. The climate is now moving faster and worse than predicted. I will give him the inquiry of the House of Representatives in 1996. There was then a committee of inquiry across the street in which professors up to and including Nobel Prize winners predicted this. They also predicted: it will probably happen faster and sooner. It is precisely now that we must come up with a policy of reducing energy consumption, both for energy and climate reasons and for reasons of reducing Putin's power with its gas and oil supplies. In this case, the knife cuts both ways. It just has to be both and the sooner the better. How many people didn't warn you? Institute Clingendael has also done this: do both, make you less dependent and limit climate change. So it is also at the heart of our group. We also need to force citizens and businesses to do a little bit. We shouldn't just seduce them, we should force them that way. Then you see how effective a high price can be. We can all see now that we have already seen before Putin.... that the energy market is now developing in such a way that CCS and all kinds of other things, energy savings, become more effective than continuing to use and generate fossil. In this respect, the market predicted what Putin cynically only accelerates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mr Crone's fine words on the aim of reducing CO emissions. If we had done what the PVV wanted ten years ago, to build nuclear power stations, the Netherlands would now have emitted 10% less CO. Now the reduction in CO emissions is at most 2-3%, if any. My question to Mr Crone is how he views nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u61	We can keep a long story about that, but I'll be brief. Firstly, we all know that the extraction of uranium, the construction of nuclear power stations and so on must also be taken into account. In the cycle of CO, this also causes damage. On balance, it can generate long-term profits, but then you come back to the dependence of uranium. Mr Vendrik pointed out: where does uranium come from? How much is not lost to nature and carbon value in uranium extraction? But the most important point is this. I'm not against it in principle. It's a stable, literally continuous current that doesn't relate to the need for control we have when the sun or the wind isn't there. We can't switch on and off nuclear power. Those are all very limited possibilities. But even if we had doubled it, it wouldn't have been enough. Even if we had tripled it, it would remain in the order of 1, 2, 3 or 4% of our power generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u62	Counting indirect energy consumption is a wonderful story, but if you do that with the windmills, they won't come up at all. Do it with nuclear power. You can just figure that out. I say to you: 10% reduction in CO emissions. Why didn't you ever choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u63	I told you it would be a drop on the glowing plate, because we have to go to 100% reduction. The lifecycles are made for solar panels, for wind energy. For me, energy saving is the most important thing. Just using less energy, you also have to generate less energy, whether it's sustainable or fossil. I also appeal to the cabinet to do so. Where are those isolation programs? Where are the programmes in industry? You should support us. Then I also support you in putting energy savings first. Nuclear energy will certainly always play a marginal role in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u64	The real result, once again, has been zero for ten years. We have lost billions of dollars in investments in alternative energy projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u65	We've discussed this before. Mr. Chairman. It has just been said that the draft law may no longer be necessary, because the prices of emissions are already so high. It was until recently. A few years ago, they cost €5. We remember. Mr Ester pointed out, I believe. It even went over the €100, but now we are below the €60. If you look at the futures of the price of CO emissions, you can see that they could just go under. I therefore share Mr Berkhout's view and Mrs Prast's view that this bill may not be necessary. I would like to ask the Minister what predictions are being made about this CO-emission market. In any case, this price may decrease in decreasing energy demand, because it is not a demand for rights. You can already see that in the futures, as Het Financieele Dagblad wrote last Thursday. Also this morning I saw a huge diver in the CO emission allowance graph. It can be very important, from a climate point of view, if the price drops unexpectedly, to have a coat rack article in that law so that we can reach that €45.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u66	I have a question for Mr Crone, through the chairman. Experts say: from the point of view of sustainability, the price of CO emissions should be closer to €100 than at €50. This minimum price is too low from that point of view, isn't it? The proposed minimum price in this bill is still far below what is now the market price. I do not understand why Mr Crone thinks that the bill could be effective, also because the government itself is charging zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u67	Because, of course, two things play a role here. I referred to market development, which is now leading to a low emission price, as it was €5 a few years ago. If there is no demand for emission allowances, the price will thunder. So you have to have a legal minimum. I agree with you that a legal minimum should bring us close to 100. That would be fine. A few years ago, we saw this, I just said that there was huge investment in savings and that even CCS would be profitable. I share your view, but I do not understand at all why you say that the bill may be superfluous. 'Cause we're gonna have to have that coat rack article, right? I would particularly like to ask the Minister here about the political wind that is blowing, because it may be that under pressure from the current high prices, countries or industries say that this whole emission allowance has to go away because they can't afford it anymore. Will the European Commission, which can remove rights from the market in order to keep prices high, then remove those rights from the market or will it participate in that lower emission price? This would be understandable for purely one-sided economic reasons, but would not be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u68	I'm just trying to understand what Mr Crone is saying about that coat rack. He says that a minimum price of no less than €100 would actually be very good. But the proposed minimum price in this bill starts somewhere at €15 and ends at €30. So it's way underneath. Now Mr Crone tells us to look at the market. The price has fallen from €90 to €60. Does Mr Crone expect us to be below €15 later and that is why we need that coat rack?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u69	No, the market is predicting a diver now. If there is a global recession, the demand for energy and therefore the demand for emission allowances will fall. And then that prize thunders. You can see that already in the futures. For a few days now, they've been diving under 60. If that continues, because we do not yet have a recession, and that recession would come, energy and emissions prices will fall. The phrase "it should be 100" is desirable from a climate perspective. It is also desirable because then we have the public revenue, because those allowances are money for us. What we are paying now is money to Putin and Saudi Arabia. I prefer high emission allowances through this bill so that we get the money. Secretary of State, it was just laughed at, but we're giving you a lot of money out of this pot. I would therefore prefer this high tax for the State, which we can redirect to the citizens, whether or not we want to promote energy saving, rather than putting that law in the closet because we believe that the market will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u70	Yeah, but we don't have that high tax, do we? He's talking about $100 now, but we don't have $100. We have €15 up to €30. This is still far below the expected emission price trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u71	I was just getting there: I would prefer to have a wiggle tax, which ensures a high charge and is adjusted on top of the market price so that everyone knows that this is the total price: energy including CO levy, a stable price. If the market price goes down, the levy goes up. If the market price itself goes up, you can lower the tax. Then you have a stability in your investment program. That was a question I am asking through you, Mr President, and I will take it out of my text. A wiggle tax would be a better term than a CO storage, because it would give you more stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u72	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr Crone and I may not disagree on what is desirable, but we are talking about the legislative proposal before us. What is desirable is not in the present bill. Mr Crone is talking about a wiggle tax and that it has to move along, but that is not what has been proposed. We cannot amend as a First Chamber, so is it what Mr Crone specifically asks or suggests to the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u74	Excuse me, I forgot that between the energy price and our storage are the allowances that the European Commission is about. If the European Commission ensures that there are sufficient rights from the market, those allowances will go up and may not have to be stored. So three things are at stake: Europe's basic energy price, Europe's emission allowances and whether we are setting up another one. These three steps must be as high together as possible in the context of energy saving and climate change. Then it's pretty clear, isn't it? That's why I'm asking that question about the wiggle tax. If €45 per tonne is too little, it will ever have to go up. But Europe also has a role to play in this, because the Commission takes rights out of the market and the Commission can therefore ensure that the overall package produces a high emission and energy price. That would be ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u75	I actually thought this was a wiggle tax, but not an effective one, because I think he's moving with me. Do I hear Mr Crone implicitly say that this law is not necessary because the EU should do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u76	No, this law allows us to put something on top if the European price is too low. Then, of course, the criticism is: only the Netherlands does that again. Okay, but at least that was the philosophy and I support it. But the total package of the basic energy price, plus the ETS right that you pay through the European pathway and, on top of that, our additional levy, which we are talking about, should be enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u77	But what's too low?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u78	That is the question I asked the Minister. Everyone knows that you must have a fairly high price to make many forms of energy saving and renewable energy profitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u79	I'll give it a minute, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u80	I think you were pretty close with the $100 you mentioned earlier. Mr. Chairman. Do we have to compensate citizens? After all, I want that high energy price. Yes, we do have to compensate them. I would like to support, in the short term, especially from the point of view of energy poverty, low incomes and middle incomes, especially in the short term. But, of course, I would prefer to do so through aid for energy saving and renewable energy. My question is therefore: where is the European Social Climate Fund? That was aimed at helping to isolate homes and buy economical cars. The PvdA has already submitted a plan to help people in the short term, not only with price or income subsidies, but also with investing in sustainability. The most irritating thing is that people have to advance subsidies and even loans. Why don't they get a loan from day one at low interest rates and a long depreciation period so that people can make that savings quickly? I don't know if people know, but most people only have a few thousand euros in cash. More than half of the people don't even have $10,000 in cash. So they can't pre-invest. I would like to call on the Cabinet to bring about this interest-free loan, including advance payments, as soon as possible with a longer repayment period, so that the charges are bearable. Why are there no actions yet, as we had during the oil crisis in 1973? That's when all the companies turned off their lights and the heating from 5:00 p.m., right? I'm sneaking out of the heating in the hallway. I already did that for Putin, by the way. I find it very warm here in the halls. Besides, in this room, half the light can also be turned off. We can laugh about it, but this is very effective, because many little ones make a big one. So where is the government's investment programme to make people immediately cut energy consumption? This does not lead to less comfort, because who sleeps in an office at night where it has to be warm? By the way, I think it should be cold in a bedroom too, so if you sleep in the office, you can also turn off the heating. Well, now I'm out of line, Mr. Chairman. A serious remark: what are we doing with the big industry? It is perfectly logical that greenhouse growers are already sometimes switching off or growing other vegetables, because less light and less energy is needed. I'd like to ask the cabinet scenarios, in two weeks. That's pretty serious. In two weeks' time, I'd like to hear which major consumers are better off than subsidising to go wild with fossil energy. It is better to say to some that they have to switch off, in the medium term if necessary, and then to help them with a switch-over programme, so that they switch to energy saving. Glass garden builders who now have geothermals are bacon buyer. They can both grow and sell their electricity and heat. Let's help them all do this as soon as possible. I would like to see scenarios, because otherwise we will get back on our feet and go back to fossil sources, even with coal-burning and oil-burning, the big consumers, with even more emissions and even more damage to the environment. What schedule does the cabinet have for a few very targeted sectors? Who knows what the European Commission will say about this this afternoon. I heard Frans Timmermans announce he's coming up with a program this afternoon. Sometimes not on vacation. Isn't that what we all do at home? That is much better than pushing ahead on the old, wrong path, with industrial policy. Mr. Chairman. In those scenarios with true pricing, take all the costs. Why can Schiphol still fly at distances that you can also travel by train? We can change that tomorrow, can't we? In doing so, we are taking Putin in a better way, in addition to everything that is already happening, taking away his dominant position from the power tap and squeezing that power tap. Mr. Chairman. I've got ten seconds. How is it possible? Thank you. I am curious to hear the response of both rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u81	Thank you, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-08-eerstekamer-3.u82	I shall suspend the debate for the break until 1.30 p.m.
