ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on the declaration of government. I invite Mr Wilders from the PVV to give his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. There they are, some of the rulers of the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u3	That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u4	That's right. I had hoped Mr Wilders would start by apologizing, but he's starting another story. Even before this cabinet took office, Mr Wilders said about the new Minister of Justice that, because she is of Turkish origin, he was worried that she would want to lift his security, because she would probably prefer to see him disappear under the grass. It's a completely nonsensical, idiotic suggestion. She called him about that. My question is whether he has called back and whether he has apologized.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u5	Well, excuses not in a hundred thousand years. To be honest, I expect an apology from the VVD. That's exactly what I'll call it. Except for the fact that they've been suing me through their former Minister of Defense for a tribunal for ten years, you remember, they've taken a Muslim terrorist into their midst. They then have someone who is also of Turkish descent who is simply a fact; the Minister of Turkish descent has been made Minister of Justice. So I think I was absolutely right about that tweet. You asked a second question. I did not answer her call at first, because what would I do with a minister or a secretary of state what was she like in the previous cabinet? - Who's talking about climate? On the day she's sworn in, we did make an appointment for this week. So he's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u6	Of course, Mr Wilders' need to be protected for 18 years is a disgrace. That's terrible. But he said, even before he had spoken to her, that this minister would prefer to see him disappear under the grass, purely and simply because she was born in Turkey. She fled Turkey as a child. She said she's gonna be more committed to the security of politicians. He judges her purely and only on where she was born. Does Mr Wilders have any justification for suggesting that she would prefer to see him disappear under the carpet? 'Cause I didn't hear that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u7	Well, I talked about "they." "They" love to see me disappear under the carpet. By that I mean the VVD, the party for which she became Minister of Justice. Indeed, I had a very good reason for this, which I will mention in my term as well. Because that same VVD is constantly trying to destroy me from day one. That's what they did with a trial. I've been wrongly in court for ten years. A minister of the same VVD and his officials have given information to the Public Prosecutor, in violation of all the rules. We have a Muslim terrorist, and I will go into this in detail in a moment, who has become an advisor to the VVD and is a member of an organization that wanted to kill me, among other things. Do you hear what I'm saying? A member of an organization that tried to kill me, the Hofstad Group. That member is now an advisor to the VVD. And then we have a minister with a dual nationality, including the Turkish. I think that's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u9	And I do that every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u10	The only thing that becomes clear from this is that, if you weren't born in the Netherlands, but for example in Turkey, you can never do it right for Mr Wilders. We are talking about a minister who fled Turkey as a small child, who was attacked in Turkish newspapers on her position on the Armenian genocide, who has always worked for the safety of others and has already said that we are going to do more. And then Mr Wilders says: they love to see me disappear under the grass. Or they'd rather see me die. He can't back that up in any way. It's a completely nonsensical suggestion. We can approach each other this way, but it only makes sense if we look at ideas and content, if necessary you make comments about what people look like, but it doesn't make sense to make these kind of bizarre suggestions, purely and only based on where people come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u11	I wish it were bizarre. Unfortunately, it's reality. She is a member of a party that has engaged a Muslim terrorist who has been sentenced to three years in prison. It's gonna happen to you. It's a member of an organization that killed Theo van Gogh, who tried to kill me, who tried to kill Ayaan Hirsi Ali. That didn't happen to you. That happened to me! To this day, that's what's bothering me. Do you find it strange that I make a comment when someone is appointed and I am not told about it? Of course it is. If Mrs Yeşilgöz had surrendered her Turkish nationality, I would have had no problem with that. Why the hell didn't she? I think Turks can turn in their double nationality. She should have. I have a problem with that double nationality, not with her origins. I find it scandalous that she didn't turn in her double nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u12	Mr Wilders' security situation is terrible. There is no one in this Chamber, no one in the Cabinet, who doubts that at any time of the day. This is about the suggestion you raised at the time you sent that tweet, that the background of our Minister for Justice and Security would be related to the fact that she did not attach any importance to it and that she would not give it the highest priority. It's the suggestion that you link her background to that. The only question I'm asking you here today is why you didn't call her back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u13	I just said that. You've got to listen a little. We are only at the beginning of the debate. I said that when she called or tweeted, I know what it was, or apprehended, sorry, she was Secretary of State for Climate. What am I gonna do with a Secretary of State for Climate, who's not about that at all? The minute she was sworn in on Monday, she called to make an appointment, and it was made as it should be. We'll see. I have little hope that that will be a nice conversation, but I'll go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u14	If you do not want to take the trouble to call back someone who, because of her position, has nothing to do with that at the time, where do you get the idea of tweeting about Mrs Yeşilgöz's future position? My question to Mr Wilders remains valid: why do you have the nerve to send such an unbelievable, unspeakable tweet, but do you not have the guts to call Mrs Yeşilgöz back on that? That is how we deal with each other in this country and how we deal with each other in politics: if you attack each other and someone has the guts to call you and start talking about it, then you have the guts to pick up the phone or at least call back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u15	I've answered this question three times. I'd like to do it again. I support every letter of my tweet because of what that party of yours has done to me. I'm gonna go over that in a little bit. That's why I did it. Of course, the agreement was finally made, but not when she was Minister of the Environment. On the day she was sworn in, she called my secretary for an appointment. It's made for this week, so you blow a lot, but it's for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u16	The latter is not true anyway. Mr Wilders chooses to put away an intended Minister of Justice, because of her native country, as someone who would prefer to make him disappear. It was then contacted, probably to assure Mr Wilders that nothing is going to change his security and that he does not have to worry. He's refusing contact with an excuse. In fact, he is making the debate even worse, because he says he is not only afraid of his safety, because the minister who is talking about it was born in Turkey, but because the VVD prefers him to disappear under the feet. In doing so, he plays to the effect that a political party in this house would have wanted him killed. You can't do that. Both comments, both innuendos are disgusting. Unfortunately, Mr Wilders' concern for his safety is justified. We've all known that for years. But the government is always working on it seriously. Now that he is entering into the conversation and is convinced in that conversation that nothing is going to change and that his security will be guaranteed by the government, as has happened in recent years, is he prepared to take back both statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr President, I am not taking back any of the statements I have ever made. It is completely absurd to enter into the debate with me and then take back statements. I support my statements. I'm gonna stand there forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u18	At the time when it appears that both the innuendo of the minister's origin and the innuendo of the intentions of the VVD are not true, does he still support his statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u19	I don't trust the VVD for a penny, not a millimeter. Again, they've brought me to justice. The Minister of the VVD, Mr Opstelten, has ensured that I could not always be here for ten years, but that I had to be in court for judgments that I was usually, apart from one, acquitted for. Every time. That's one. Two. They recorded a Muslim terrorist in their midst. I've come to talk about it so extensively. An advisor to Rutte, an advisor to the VVD. It's a convicted terrorist whose organization tried to kill me. I was never told it was in the VVD and probably was in this building. Never heard of it! Do you think it's weird that I'm worried? And then there's gonna be a minister who has a double nationality, who can turn her in but doesn't. Then it's up to me and I'm not taking back any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr Wilders brings in all kinds of arguments. He does, I think, because he feels that his main story doesn't touch side by side. Even if it becomes clear in a conversation that his concerns about his safety are not justified and that the allusions he makes are not justified, Mr Wilders is not prepared to take back his words. Unfortunately, that says more about Mr Wilders than about the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u21	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Luckily it's not, because I don't give it to you. But you'd only have lost your freedom for 18 years. If you get around ten to twenty death threats out of the world for 18 years a day, if you've lost your freedom for 18 years, you don't talk about what you say so easily. I'm genuinely worried about it. There's a fucking Muslim terrorist out here who might still be out here, convicted and whose organization tried to kill me. How about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u22	In the context of the new momentum, I had actually imagined something different from the beginning of this debate. This seems to be a bit of a staged distraction. I regret that, because I kind of assumed that we were going to be positive. Apparently not. Anyway, Mr. Wilders and I are both from the VVD. The VVD has become a kind of incubator of good parties. Let's just talk about the content again. If you read the VVD's election program, you'll see all kinds of beautiful things. The middle incomes are improving, workers and entrepreneurs: everyone is improving. There's gonna be lower taxes. And what does the coalition agreement say? Actually, everything's getting worse. We're gonna spend unlimited money, it's not gonna make the purchasing power any better, and it's just gonna make it hell for the elderly. Aren't you incredibly happy that you never have to defend this election programme, like me, and that you don't have to defend this coalition agreement either?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'm incredibly happy that I'm gonna be able to tear it down right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u24	Excuse me. I see Mr Segers standing there for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u25	In a rule of law, the judge deals with judgments, including those of Mr Wilders, which led to a conviction. That's not a political statement. That's a court order. But in a rule of law, it is a matter of honour to protect a politician who is threatened. I believe that everyone here in this Chamber thinks it is a matter of honour that Mr Wilders can just live freely and safely and say what he wants. The more disappointing it is than it is that it's going in the other direction so hard and there's going to be such an accusation. So personal. So towards a party and so on about motives and intentions, of which you must have some insight into heads, you want to be able to join. Has there ever been any apparent reason that Mr Wilders doubted the commitment to secure him? Did he ever give you a clue? Has he ever sent a signal about his own safety that hasn't been picked up? Is there any reason he can support the fact that there's a party here that wants him in the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u26	I'm not gonna answer anything about your first question. Then I would have my own safety... I'm not going to say anything about when I felt unsafe, whether it was political or otherwise. I'm not gonna say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u27	I would ask you to support your claim that there is a party here that you only want to have underfoot. That's what I'm asking you. You've made a very bold statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u28	I've explained that four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u29	You have to justify that there would be a party here who only has the purpose... That's so fucking boud.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr President, I am really sorry. I understand all coalition partners have been there. The agreement was that Mr Segers had to come again, but I am not going to repeat my story four times. I've given the answer to that question four times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u32	I find it so disappointing that Mr Wilders is arguing with the wrong people. We stand here for a democratic rule of law, in which you have a separation of powers and in which you defend freedom, including those who do not agree with you. Then you can have a very sharp debate. That is what Mr Wilders is going to do. He says, "Come on, I'm gonna tear down this cabinet's planned policy." Fine, he can do all that. But there are limits in the democratic rule of law. There are also limits to decency. That safety belongs to all of us. That freedom belongs to all of us. That's what we all stand for. I simply do not understand that Mr Wilders is arguing with the wrong people, with the Minister of Justice, who himself knows what it is to face enemies who call themselves Islamist or jihadist, and who knows where the danger comes from. Please fight with the right people and not with the wrong people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u33	Do you know when you're crossing a line? That's if you include a member of the Hofstadgroep as your party's advisor, which the VVD has done. Soumaya Sahla is a convicted terrorist. I'm going to talk about it so extensively. That's someone who tried to overthrow the rule of law. Someone arrested with a machine gun and a gun. Someone convicted of carrying a machine gun, an automatic gun, and a gun. Someone arrested on the street with Nouredine el F., who was on his way to Ayaan Hirsi Ali and yours truly, to kill us. To make that adviser of the Prime Minister and of the VVD, that is a border crossing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u34	There is another interruption by Mr Eerdmans, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u35	I don't really need an answer. I am more concerned with this last point. I have seen this with increasing amazement. I myself have had to deal with the Hofstad group, unfortunately. I know what that was supposed to mean. I have also learned with great annoyance that such a thing happens without the knowledge of Mr Wilders. We in the House of Representatives did not want a debate on this because it was said that this is behind the scenes and we should not discuss it here in the public arena. But how can a convicted terrorist indeed come to work in the Chamber and in this case Mr Wilders has not been informed of this? I am also looking at the Prime Minister. I'm looking at the VVD. It is really incredible that Mr Wilders here on office days should look Mrs Soumaya S. in the eye and that he was not prepared for that? I think this is a failure on the part of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u36	I do not think this is a question to Mr Wilders, but it is a question to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u37	Perhaps it is also a question for you, Mr President. Maybe it's something to take, that we shouldn't do that in this house, like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think this is a question addressed to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr Eerdmans is right. I don't think you knew either, Mr. Chairman. My security didn't know either. It's a hell of a scandal. Okay, I'll start with my story. I already talked about the rulers of the new cabinet. It is the ideologically most left-wing cabinet since Den Uyl, with activist D66s and left-wing liberal VVDs who are going to fight for even more European Union, even more taxes, even more climate change and even more migration. It's also the most rude cabinet since Den Uyl. spending EUR 60 billion on nitrogen and climate, while taking away €1,000 from our pensioners, is downright scandalous. The people in Groningen publicly humiliate them by leaving them half begging in line for a subsidy to strengthen their home and in the meantime start drilling extra gas for Germany, is unreliable and dirty politics. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet says goodbye to the middle class of the Netherlands, but also to the people who are already struggling, to the AOW'ers. Everyone's screwed. Everyone turns in and decreases in purchasing power. Once the hardworking middle class was sacred to the VVD, and they were called the backbone of society. In the meantime, they are treated as foot sweeps like the rest of the Netherlands and squeezed out like lemons. Unaffordable energy bills, the second-highest petrol price in the world, a sky-high inflation, increasingly expensive messages: people get it all for themselves. And if that's not enough, Rutte-IV says: "You know what, we'll add an increase in the flight tax, and an increase in tobacco taxes. We come with a sugar tax and a mileage tax. And, oh, yes, and are European taxes, because Sigrid is the boss now." Strong increases in charges: it is the betrayal of the Netherlands. I will try every day to make sure that this cabinet gets back on the ground as soon as possible and disappears from the political scene. I'll do that with open sight. So you know exactly what I'm doing for you. That doesn't apply to the man who can call himself Prime Minister again, Mark Rutte. Be warned, I say to the new rulers, even those who are not here today. As long as you're politically okay, Rutte won't bother you so much. But if you get into political trouble, that changes. He then dives away for as long as possible, and his memory and active memories begin to falter more and more, until it really can't be any different. Then he, mostly here in the hall, puts his left arm friendlyly around you, and then push you into the ravine with his right arm. Many have gone before you, and are now in the political cemetery. I wish you a lot of pleasure in your new job. Madam President. I am here on behalf of more than 1 million people who voted for the PVV because they want a better Netherlands. I stand up for the common man and woman who do not get it all for nothing in life, who have seen a country decay before their eyes and turn into one big disadvantaged neighborhood. They have to pay more and more for everything and get less and less for it. They don't understand anything, but they don't understand anything about the choices and priorities of politics in The Hague. They find it incomprehensible that the man, whom they so distrust, that patriarch, that national liar, Mark Rutte, has once again become prime minister after he had resigned earlier. They also don't get it at all that Sigrid Kaag, who even resigned twice last year, once because of the surcharge scandal and once because of Afghanistan, is just back in trade-K and not at the UWV for a retraining course. She has now even become Minister of Finance, and the only people who are really happy about it are the Palestinian terrorists from the Middle East that she has previously financed. And what about the first-class failure, Mrs Ollongren, who only aggravated the crisis in the housing market, which made the note "Override, function elsewhere" world-familiar and does not even know the difference between a sergeant and a major, but has been bombed as Secretary of Defense. I hope someone will tell her in time that Ukraine is not a NATO member and Putin is not the President of Luxembourg. And what about the VVD's Harbers, who resigned as State Secretary because he had lied to the Chamber about asylum crime? He has now been promoted to Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. Lying pays off at the VVD. Then the rulers with a double nationality, we were just talking about the VVD'er Yeșilgöz on Justice with Turkish nationality. It was VVD member Mark Rutte who said in 2007 that the Party of the Labour Secretary of State Albayrak had not surrendered her Turkish nationality in the Balkenende IV cabinet. Rutte stood there at the Interrupt Microphone Balkening to lecture him why Albayrak had not surrendered her nationality. Now that it's a VVD man, a VVD minister, it's not a problem anymore. Such hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u40	An interruption by Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u41	What is the problem, according to Mr Wilders, of a dual nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u42	We are talking about political functions. We do not want people with a dual nationality in a political position, First Chamber, Second Chamber, you name it, because that brings with it the appearance of double loyalty, not double loyalty, but the appearance of double loyalty. There are also countries, such as Turkey and Morocco, that even in legislation have stricter penalties for people of dual nationality. Recognising the Armenian genocide is a criminal offence in Turkey. If a Turk does that outside Turkey, the sentence will be increased by a third. There are legal effects, whether they like it or not. In Australia, a decent country, it is not possible to be a member of the Cabinet or of a Chamber with a dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u43	Now Mr Markuszower is sitting there. I think he's got a double nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u44	No, he didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u45	My point is, shouldn't we be looking at people's behavior? We now have a queen of dual nationality. We have 1.4 million people of dual nationality. We have a lot of diplomats who have two or three nationalities. That helps to travel. Why always assume the appearance of loyalty and therefore charge suspicion on these people? Why have we had this resentment policy for almost a quarter of a century? Look at what people perform, not where they come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u46	So I really agree with the Mark Rutte of 2007. The 2007 Mark Rutte literally said the following. It's nice to quote that one more time. Rutte, Tweede Kamer, 15 March 2007, debate government statement Balkenende IV: "As a new ruler, Ms Albayrak, she was able to be an example for all those migrants by fully choosing Dutch nationality. As far as the VVD is concerned, that applies to every Dutchman. I ask the government to come up with legislation, or we will come up with own-initiative laws." Mr Rutte then said it was a terrible hypocrite, because now he thinks it's all very well, and he said it can't be done; you have to choose one country, one nationality, and when you're in politics you can't have the appearance of double loyalty and then, certainly not as a Member of Parliament or minister, you can't get the urge of extra punishment if you speak out against your fellow countrymen; that's just not possible; we can't have that. Again: in other countries, often Anglo-Saxon countries, it is very common that this should not be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u47	We have known this story of Mr Wilders for almost a quarter of a century. He's one of the longest-sitting members of this Chamber. He's seen the dinosaur die out politically. That's how long he's been there. For 8,484 days he tells the same story. Mr Wilders warns of this danger. At what point has he observed, in the Cabinet, here in the Chamber, in the Upper Chamber, which has caused problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u48	Well, we can remember that at the time, there were MPs from the Labour Party who were still having trouble denying the Armenian genocide. You may remember that. That was a few years ago. People reluctantly wanted to admit that he had taken place at all, because they were of Turkish origin. That's what happened, and that's not good. So again, I think that if you are a Member of Parliament or Minister or Secretary of State, you may serve only one country and that is the Netherlands, and that you may never have a double nationality of any other country, whether it is Turkey, Norway, Sweden or Morocco, because the citizen should be able to assume that you are free and that you only serve the interests of the Netherlands. And you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u49	Finally. It's just a disgusting insinuation. It is a really disgusting insinuation to think that people in this house with a dual nationality, which they can sometimes do nothing about, are even thinking about not serving the interests of the Netherlands. That is Mr Wilders' suspicion policy. That is the resentment policy and hate policy that has been used here for a quarter of a century. I don't accept that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u50	Good. I will continue my speech. It is unheard of that the entire crutches team, the VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union, which has plunged our country into crisis after crisis, is simply going on as if nothing had happened. That's not a new impetus or a new governance culture, but that's rotten old power politics. Hardly anyone trusts them anymore. Never has a cabinet in the Netherlands been set up that was so deeply distrusted by the population. That's what you get for putting out the PVV, as a third party of the Netherlands, before the elections, not after, but well before the elections, and if you spit 1 million PVV-choosers right in their face, like Rutte did. Mr. Chairman. The reason why undemocratic cordon is sanitary, we heard the Prime Minister repeatedly say that the PVV's Islam views would be contrary to the rule of law. How hypocritical and hypocritical these words turn out to be. What a terrible story that is. Because recently it appeared that Prime Minister Rutte's VVD has attracted a convicted Muslim terrorist as an advisor. I am indeed talking about Soumaya Sahla, a former member of the Hofstad group. You know, that's that terror group that was responsible for the murder of Theo van Gogh and that former colleague Ayaan Hirsi Ali and wanted to kill myself. The misery of 18 years of freedom and security began there. It's "I can't put it any other way," "Muslim scum of the ledge." Soumaya Sahla has been sentenced to three years in prison for membership of a terrorist organization and for possession of an automatic firearm and a revolver. And now she's an advisor to Prime Minister Rutte's VVD on national security. You're not making that up, are you? What madhouse did we end up in here? Not us, but she set the rule of law on fire and cut the Constitution to pieces, and now she's sitting on the plush at the VVD. Soumaya Sahla's sister, Mrs Fonda Sahla, is sitting next to me in the plenary. She is a member of the D66 and former sister-in-law of Muslim terrorist Nouredine el Fahtni, the man who was arrested with a machine gun in his car together with VVD advisor Soumaya. Fonda Sahla is in turn close to a member of the GroenLinks Parliament, also wearing a headscarf, who has links with the terrorist Muslim Brotherhood. In the building of the Second Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr. Wilders, I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u52	...so there are Islamic radicals and terrorists out there. I feel extremely uncomfortable and unsafe about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u53	I'm gonna stop you for a second. Of course, you have the right to say a lot in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u54	Everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u55	When it comes to security, I get your point. But there are a number of people out there today. They can't defend themselves. You mention a number of names. I suggest we deal with that in a more discreet way. In addition, you make a comment about it and give you a qualification of a colleague. You qualify that colleague as "with a head cloth." I don't think that's respectful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u56	I already told you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u57	I'd like to ask you to take care of that. For the rest, you will be given all the freedom in this Chamber to find a lot of things. But I think it is important, and that is also what we agreed with each other in the Rules of Procedure, that we respect each other...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u58	But, Madam President, may I say with respect that I do not think headscarves should be in the House of Representatives? Can't I represent that opinion? I can tell you that, can't I? I think that here in the Second Chamber of the States-General, the woman suppressing, Islamic totalitarian, fascist symbol of the headscarf does not belong and we should ban it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u59	You can say that. As chairman of this House of Representatives, I may say...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u60	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u61	...that you're talking about a colleague, an elected representative, and that's what I think of the person. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u62	Okay, Mr. Chairman. It is a gatspe that the PVV as a party fighting for our freedom and almost alone against Islamic terror is excluded by the VVD that cherishes and takes up terrorists in its midst. It's the world upside down!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u63	There are a number of colleagues who would like to interrupt. I'll take a look around. Mrs Hermans of the VVD was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u64	I would like to start with a personal statement, to make it very clear that Samouya Sahla, about whom Mr Wilders has spoken a number of times, does not work for me or for the VVD and has no access to the Chamber Building. I would also like to echo what the President of the Chamber has just said about respectfully speaking about our colleagues in a normal and decent manner. Some of my fellow Members have been mentioned by name who cannot defend themselves. There are also blames in their direction, which I wish to cast far from me. I believe that we should judge everyone in this Chamber on the quality of their contribution to the debate and on the work they are doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u65	Madam President. On the website of the VVD, in the so-called VVD-networks with the old party committees, it is simply stated at Security and Justice, in national security: Samouya. That's Samouya Sahla. You can't say she doesn't have access to the building at all, because her sister is a D66 MP. How do you know she's not visiting her sister? You don't know anything about that. You can't say that at all. You don't even know that. What I do know, Madam President, is that Samouya Sahla of the VVD, sister of a D66 chamber member, never expressed regret. She never regretted what she did. Judgments of the court and of the Supreme Court show that she had an automatic weapon with her and that, when she was arrested, she stood between another terrorist and the police and called Allahu Akbar, hoping that terrorist had time to catch the machine gun. You've got people like that in your party! They're on your website. And, Madam President, just to point out that such a person does not change quickly and that you should never believe that she has improved her life, especially if she has not expressed regret, it was her own sister, Karima Sahla, who said: never has anyone been cured of such Islamic beliefs; anyone who has conceived the word "deradicate," believes in fairy tales. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u66	In addition to the personal fact that I just made, the following. The suggestion was raised that she works here for the VVD group and thus has access to the Lower House. I've distanced myself from that. She doesn't work for the VVD Group. She doesn't work for me. She's in a VVD network, exactly what Mr. Wilders mentioned. That's different than working here and being able to walk into and out of a room pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u67	Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, I walked around your party myself. We went as VVD room members to meet with members of party committees every month. Sometimes at the party bureau and sometimes in the Lower House. Co-workers went to pick them up and they came in. Then you took them away again. What makes you say that? She's a member of the VVD. She's a national security advisor to the VVD. Maybe not from the group, but from the party. And she's a convicted terrorist! She was sentenced to three years in prison because she was a member of the Hofstad group that killed Theo van Gogh, who tried to kill me and tried to catch that colleague Eerdmans. You've got those kind of guys in your party. And you're going to lecture me that you don't want to rule with the PVV because we're acting in violation of the rule of law? You bring in the greatest villains of the rule of law in your party!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Klaver, and then I propose to return to the subject that the debate should be about today, the coalition agreement and the government statement. Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u69	I would very much like to talk about this, but I cannot leave this point undisputed, I am sorry. We all took an oath to the Constitution. Article 1 of the Constitution ensures equal treatment for all people living here. At a time when we are putting people, not just colleagues or MPs, but all people in the Netherlands, away on the basis of religion, origin or whether they are wearing headscarfs or not, that is downright racist. The Prime Minister just said in his contribution that we need to draw boundaries. Then we'll have to do it loudly. In this Chamber not everything can be said. Racism isn't normal. Not on the street or in the Lower House. And what is also not normal, Mr President, is that colleagues here are suspected of all kinds of practices, because they would have relatives. I remember very well that Mr Wilders was right to be furious a few years ago when his brother was involved in the political debate. And now he's doing it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u70	I'm not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u71	Now he declares a colleague guilty on the basis of association with a family member. I find that unacceptable. I think, Mr President, that I would ask you, Mr Wilders, to take back his words on this, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u72	I never take words back, fool. I never take back words! Never!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u73	Shh, Mr. Wilders. Mr. Wilders!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u74	Come on, everybody, stop it. Everyone stop taking words back. I'll never take anything back. You can save yourself the trouble of asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr. Wilders, perhaps you'd like to answer Mr. Klaver's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u76	Of course I would like to respond to Mr Klaver's questions. I think I'm talking right now, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u77	Excuse me, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u78	I think I'm talking. You gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u79	That's absolutely true. I thought Mr Klaver came to a point, but I see from Mr Klaver that that is not the case. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Klaver and then to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr President, Mr Wilders is interrupting me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u81	No, I gave Mr Wilders the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u82	He can say here that he's never gonna take his words back or not, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u83	Yeah, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u84	You also have that opportunity, Mr President. The President also has the opportunity to ask politicians here to take back their words. And if they don't, you can take the floor from them. If we are all serious about saying that our rule of law, our democratic rule of law, is under pressure here, then that starts with the courage to draw borders. If you speak in this way, Mr Wilders, about fellow MEPs, and if you speak in this way about society, you cross a border. Then you no longer respect the fact that we in this country find peaceful solutions in a democratic debate, which ultimately decides the majority, that the people elected here are democratically elected. And if you don't, there's only one path left that's open, and that's violence. That is why, Mr President, I would like to ask you: if he does not want to take it back, I ask you to ask Mr Wilders to take back his words. As far as I am concerned, he will not be able to take part in this meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u85	You're out of your mind. I'm really sorry, but you're really insane that based on what I said, you're going to say these words. You know what? If there is discrimination, if there is violence, it is Islam whose head cloth is the symbol. This does not apply to everyone who wears it, but the head cloth is precisely the symbol of Islam. That's the ideology that makes sure that if you're not Islamic, or if you're a woman who doesn't listen, or if you're a homosexual, or if you're an apostate, or if you're an independent journalist, you're gonna cut your head off. In every country, Mr. Clover, in every country where Islam is dominant, you see the racism and violence of Islam. Those who criticize it will not help you. That only adds to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u86	Words matter. That's not because I say it, but because the security services say it. They say that in recent years there has been a huge increase in radicalisation of the extreme right, of young people who have come to believe in the words of politicians such as Mr Wilders. Words matter. We see that more and more people are starting to believe in conspiracy theories. We see that journalists can't normally go to demonstrations that are right about the corona policy. They need to be secured. We see that politicians cannot normally walk to the train, but should be protected because those guys feel excited and think that something very big is going on. Mr. Wilders, you're contributing to that, and I'm addressing you to that. That is what I am addressing you to, because we are all, first and foremost, servants of that democratic rule of law. And you've been sawing the legs of it for years. And to be perfectly honest, we've all been way too soft in that. We may have contradicted you, but we have allowed it to be said in this Chamber. It does not fit anywhere, not in society and certainly not in parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u87	I didn't say a word wrong, but let me see what the Member of the Green Left, Mrs Kauthar, I was referring to just now. Let's take a look at what goes across the border and what doesn't. I see that Mr Klaver is quickly looking the other way, because of course he does not like to hear this. I see you're back to class. Mrs Kauthar protested against the violence in Gaza. She was in the picture with swastikas, with anti-Semitic flags. If you don't believe it, would you like to see the photos? She was standing there with people with swastikas. Your MP stood there with an Islamic headscarf to demonstrate. She was also a driver at FEMYSO. That's a youth organization of the Muslim Brotherhood. And if you're talking about security services, Mr. Klaver, you might want to take a look, too. He's looking back in a panic about what the security services have said about the Muslim Brotherhood. That is a club that is for the Sharia State, of which Hamas is a division, which has ties to Al-Qaeda. Your Member of Parliament, Kauthar Bouchallikht, I hope I pronounce it well... has been a director of a Muslim terror organization that was going to demonstrate with anti-Semitic flags and swastikas. Are you going to lecture me? Why don't you go talk to your colleague in your own group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u89	I was actually curious to hear what you were going to say, Mr. President. I have already lost two damn interruptions which I really want to use to talk about the content of this coalition agreement. I can't leave this unspoken. It is unacceptable to talk about colleagues in this Chamber in this way. I think you should take a stand on that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u90	They're facts! What's wrong with what I said?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u91	Colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u92	All the facts I've mentioned are true. You may disagree with me on my solutions, but you cannot disagree on the facts. She has demonstrated with anti-Semitic flags and swastikas. She's been in charge of the Muslim Brotherhood youth organization. She conducted workshops at Milli Görüş, where men and women were separated. Those are facts!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mr. Wilders...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u94	You can't talk to me about facts. These are facts, Madam President. These are uncomfortable for you, but before you lecture me, you need to look in a very large mirror and stand for it with that woman from your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words. I hear a lot of colleagues' qualifications over and over again. They're putting colleagues away. These are colleagues who cannot defend themselves here. The purpose of this debate is to talk about the declaration of government, the coalition agreement. You have every freedom to debate content, but now it has an atmosphere that I think is not the debate we should want; it is not a debate based on content and on arguments. A number of colleagues have rightly said something about this. Let us now return the debate to its content. That's my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u96	I agree with what Mrs Hermans and Mr Klaver said. Mr Wilders mentioned Soumaya Sahla. He brought in her sister, Fonda Sahla. She grew up in The Hague and worked at the school of her children and for her neighborhood. She has done more for freedom in The Hague than many others in this Chamber. I am proud that she is in our group. The only thing Mr Wilders mentioned was that she is the sister. Mr Klaver just rightly mentioned that in 2017, when RTL News interviewed Mr Wilders' brother, Mr Wilders said RTL News is "incredibly vile scum." He wondered how RTL News dared to involve him in that campaign. It is scandalous how Mr Wilders puts people in a corner here purely on the basis of their origins. It is incredibly hypocritical that he dares to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u97	It's very relevant that I call that, because she's the sister of a convicted terrorist. That doesn't make her a terrorist, but it does make sure that this terrorist isn't your group colleague, it's her sister, her sister, who can walk around here. That's extremely relevant, isn't it? I said she's Fonda Sahla's sister. That means if Fonda Sahla invited her sister here, he'd just be walking around with a convicted terrorist who wanted to kill me too! I'd be crazy not to mention that, wouldn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u98	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. There are no unwelcome qualifications; it is only Mr Wilders who is talking about colleagues here that his democratically elected representatives are calling all kinds of terms into the Chamber. It is not Mr Klaver, Mr Paternotte or Mrs Hermans who say something that is not right. It is Mr Wilders who want to contribute every day to our colleagues, but also to all those other people of good will in our country...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u99	I'd like to say a few words about that. You have a point, Mrs Ploumen. I also meant the words...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u100	You're just taking sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u101	No, I'm not taking sides. I have just said that it is important to stay with the order of the debate. It's about the government statement. I have just indicated that I do not think the qualifications that have been expressed are desirable, because they do not show mutual respect. Colleagues can't defend themselves here, Mr. Wilders. I would therefore ask you to confine yourself to the subject and go back to what it should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u102	Neither Mr Klaver, nor the lady of the Labour Party, nor yourself can indicate what I have said wrong. What did I say wrong? I've made a statement of fact. I have given my opinion and said that I do not think headscarves should be in the House of Representatives. I think 90% of the Netherlands agree with me. We're in the Dutch Parliament. If you want to wear a headscarf, you can sit in Saudi Arabia in parliament, if that already exists there. But can't I just say I don't want to? Furthermore, I did not say anything about the facts and the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u103	I would like to make a point of order. In my opinion, no one can escape the impression that the corona crisis has been happening even though the name and name of accusing people of being here in the room is often followed in time by a message a week later that these people need personal security. Minister Kaag himself recently found out how threatening the consequences of words can be. Former Minister Hirsch Ballin said that some words already cross a line before they are put into practice. The point made by Mr Klaver is that we also have that border to guard here in the debate. Again, I have the impression that there is a relationship between people who are accused here in a corona debate or in this kind of debate by name and name, and that this leads to the need for personal security, precisely the situation in which Mr Wilders himself is involved. My point of order would be that the President and the Presidium should check whether this feeling is correct. Because if talking about people in this way leads directly to personal security, then the way in which the debate is conducted here is part of smothering the political debate. If that suspicion is true, then there is also a hook on which the President can intervene in the line that Mr Klaver is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u104	It's a false and dirty insinuation you're making right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u105	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yeah, but I'm still saying... I think I'm talking right now and I'm talking about my own words. It's a dirty and false insinuation of the leader of the CDA that what I'm saying would lead to that. Why don't you worry about that Soumaya Sahla, the convicted terrorist running around the VVD Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u107	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u108	Walking around the VVD party. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u109	I still see Mrs Hermans. And by the way, perhaps in response to Mr Heerma: we take the suggestion to the Bureau about what the effect of words is,...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u110	"We'll take them with us."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u111	... also in contact with our security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u112	But, Mr. Chairman, we'd have to do that in a motion, wouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u113	That was a question to me. It was a question to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u114	Yeah, but if I ask you something, you don't say, "We're taking it?" Then that should be put down in a motion to see if that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u115	I can say this because this is a subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u116	You can't always take sides with the people who are against me, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u117	Yeah, no, but this is a subject that lives and we're talking about, so that's why I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u118	I also have a few topics that live.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u119	Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u120	Perhaps you can take the subject that lives with a lot of millions of Dutch people, that people with headscarves can no longer be members of the House of Representatives. Can you take that, too? Then you'll be honest if you take that with you. Not only take their proposals, but also mine: then you are an independent chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u121	I am going to say a few words about this and then I will give the floor to Mrs Hermans. Safety is a very important issue and you know that better than anyone else, so if the suggestion of how we deal with each other is made... I also get signals that the brutality of the debate here and how we communicate on social media have an effect. I'm not talking about a one-on-one relationship, but I'm talking about that being an effect of what we do here and how we express ourselves on social media. On that, and I can say this openly, I also have contact with our security services to see if we can find out more about it. That is why, when Mr Heerma said something about it, I was able to react in that way, in fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u122	I would just like to express my support for Mr Heerma's point of order, but you have now taken over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u123	Thank you, Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u124	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is full, packed. We lack everything: homes, care, police, energy and gas. However, last year, on balance, more than 100,000 immigrants were added to the Netherlands. 100,000 immigrants added. That's a city like Venlo, Emmen or Alkmaar in one year. Do you think it's weird that the cost of care would go up? And do you think it's weird that we'd have a huge housing shortage? You may want to build 100,000 homes a year, but if you allow as many immigrants every year, then of course we don't get very much out of it. And while Dutch house seekers have to wait endlessly for a home, asylum seekers still receive massive priority to this day. The new cabinet doesn't change that. It is pure discrimination against Dutch people. So, Madam President, our borders must be closed, closed for even more lucky seekers. The continuing asylum system is not only priceless, it also brings a mass of people to the Netherlands who have no business here, who are disrupting our society, who have also made cowardly liars of our government. Surely it is an unprecedented shame that former VVD Secretary of State Broekers-Knol lied to the Dutch people and municipalities about a so-called mandatory designation to receive more asylum seekers? Only on the day of her resignation did she confess that there is no legal basis for this at all, that she had lied. What incredibly false and unreliable. Mr. Chairman. The borders must also be closed because we import the jihad. We import terror and violence. We import cowardly African and Arab packers who hunt down the common Dutchman as prey in our streets, who hunt gays, Jews, apostates, non-Muslims, women, modernity; facts that like to hide political scum like GroenLinksalderman Groot Wassink of Amsterdam under the carpet. Let me give you an example. The street statue in the Netherlands has already changed so much: everywhere islamic headscarves, criminal Moroccan fur collars, screaming mosques. It is no coincidence that serious crime such as the mocromafia often consists of immigrants. Everyone understands that if you bring more Somalis, Afghans, Syrians and Moroccans here, our country will of course look more like that kind of country and we will become strangers in our own street, in our own neighborhood, in our own city. That's gonna cost us our freedom in the end. Everyone's freedom is already under enormous pressure from the politics of open borders, from the failing corona policy, but also from the new wok totalitarianism, that life-threatening extreme-left totalitarian ideology that preaches intimidation and hatred against anyone who defends our way of life and sees a racist in every white man. Speaking the truth is in our country, and we have seen that, even though it has become a dangerous activity. You already have a problem in the Netherlands when you stand up for our own culture, for our historic national heroes like Michiel de Ruyter and for Black Piet, if you speak up, as I just did, against headscarves and burkas, as that brave Erica Meiland did, or if you oppose removing street names or introducing gender-neutral toilets or lhtbq+ zebra paths. The price you pay for all of this, only when you're criticizing it, is that you're getting rattled and canceled by all those wokies. In the meantime, they even think that's how I read the other day that the alphabet needs to become more inclusive. They say the "A" isn't Anton's anymore. It's Ali's. It's all total insanity. This country has gone crazy, destroyed by extreme left with the support of that cowardly broad middle and the press, who behaves like a lackey of power. Mr. Chairman. Rutte and Kaag create a paradise for left-wing crazies and foreigners here, but make our country a hell for ordinary Dutch people. It's all got to be different. We have to choose our own people again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u125	Thank you. A point of order from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u126	That is a point of order, because I am not going to make another interruption. I think you should say something about this. Once again, the media is under suspicion. Journalists can't do their job normally anymore, and here it's said again, as if they were part of a very big conspiracy, one big collaboration. That is unacceptable in this Chamber. That should not be a political debate between parliamentarians. That is a limit and I appeal to you to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr. Wilders...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Klaver turns... are you going to agree with him again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u129	No, no, no, no. I want to say that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u130	I said the press is acting like a lackey of power. That's not a conspiracy, that's a fact. That's just an opinion, Mr. Chairman. I can have that, can't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u131	It is also part of the debate. You can ask Mr Wilders about it, as you have done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u132	Okay, Mr. Chairman. We must be proud again...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u133	Before you continue, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u134	That's fine, but I'd like to get rid of the maximum of eight interruptions. First of all, because that was your proposal. Secondly, this is not a debate. We must ignore the fact that we are pretending that this is a normal opinion, and I am then opposing an opinion, which makes it seem as if we are simply disagreeing with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u135	But ask Mr Wilders your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u136	No, I am asking you a question because I state that this is not a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u137	Mr President, my clock is still running.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u138	Mr President, this is not a debate. If you put journalists away as a threat to the democratic rule of law, then you are attacking that democratic rule of law. I do not think that is possible in Parliament. We need to get rid of that. We've all had a big mouth that we're not gonna take it anymore. This is not an opinion against any other opinion. This is a violation of the rule of law. You are President of this Chamber and guardian of the democratic rule of law. I do not think that this can be said, and I think that the President of the Chamber should insist on that. That is my request to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u139	That's total bullshit, like you can't say the press is a lackey of power. Why can't I say that? That's just an opinion! It's not a conspiracy, it's not violence; it's anything but that. On the contrary, it is an opinion that the press is acting as a lackey of power. Yeah, that's my opinion. I can tell you that, can't I? There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mr President, I also have a point of order. There is a great deal to be done about security in society and here in this Chamber. This speaker creates an unsafe atmosphere, here in this house and in the rest of the country. A number of MPs are almost begging you to intervene. We do indeed have a limit of eight interruptions, in a debate that is really about something, namely the government statement, about how this country should move forward over the next four years. It has been stated by several parties, both from the cabinet and the Chamber, that this country currently needs a different culture, a different political culture. As President, you cannot expect us Members of Parliament to take care of security here in the Chamber and in society alone. So, in line with Mr Klaver and some other Members, I would also urge you to give your role as President the same: to create a safe workplace for 150 people elected by the citizens to represent them. Some do so by wearing a blue suit; others do so by wearing a headscarf, for their magical reasons. It's gotta be safe. And again, I myself beg you to do this. I know that I am speaking on behalf of a number of other Members of Parliament, so I say that we are also begging you to help shape our security and security in this country, by acting at times when there are explicit racist statements. Even though they are so cleverly packaged, they remain racist statements. They remain exciting statements, and they continue to distract us from what we are here for today. So, Mr President, once again I ask you to help us to ensure that security here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u141	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Maybe I get permission to respond to that, Mr. Wilders, because I was addressed to that. I have, of course, addressed Mr Wilders a number of times in this debate. Mr Wilders then responded to that. I have asked Mr Wilders not to do so when it comes to the names of colleagues who cannot defend themselves. I have also indicated that I do not consider the removal of a colleague, only as a headscarf, to be respectful. So that's how I standardize the debate and intervene. What I think is important, when it comes to matters that affect the rule of law and democracy, is that it is an excellent subject for the debate, for you to be a little sharp and to have an exchange of views. I understand your request when it comes to the number of interruptions. I would also like to be flexible about this, so that you can have the debate on these subjects as well. Sometimes you hear something in Mr Wilders' words, like the media. Sometimes I hear something else. The debate should not go between me and Mr Wilders. The debate must go between you and Mr Wilders. I agree with you that this should not depend on the number of interruptions. I understand you want to have the freedom to talk about that. So that's my reaction. Otherwise I will be drawn too much into a substantive debate. I do agree with you, however, and that is why I have had a discussion with almost all the groups since December, with the exception of the PVV Group, to discuss the question of how do we deal with each other? We also have a debate on this. For the next few weeks, I'm still having conversations. And then it is very good to really have a separate debate on this, and not to do so now. I suggest that Mr Wilders move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u142	We must be proud of who we are again, of our own culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u143	Then I'll take this opportunity too. I address you as chairman. You're a referee, and you're not a trial counselor in this Chamber. So at the moment you think that's possible, then it's possible. We can find some of that, but then we can. If you don't think it's possible, you can't. But when a referee at the football game constantly says, "Fuck, fuck, you can't step on the ankles," but don't interfere with yellow and red cards, nothing happens. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u144	That's a weird interruption, but okay. Mr. Chairman. This new cabinet wants exactly the opposite. They want us to return sovereignty by giving up multiple veto rights in the European Union. They want to leave the borders wide open, so that we get even more immigrants and lucky seekers and our culture and security go even further. In the choice between welfare state and immigration country, they choose the latter. That's inexcusable and priceless. We now have more asylum seekers' centres in the Netherlands than general hospitals. Do you know what these open borders cost us all and what we could have done with that money? This mass immigration of non-Western immigrants costs us EUR 20 billion every year. Add to that the billions that Rutte IV is throwing away in climate and nitrogen policies and billions in development aid to Brussels, and you come to astronomical amounts. We could have spent that money a lot better, like care. We shouldn't have cut 5 billion, but we should have invested billions. With that money, we could have made the Netherlands safer by investing in much more police. The Netherlands needs at least 10,000 extra agents, so that every city, every village, has a strong police presence throughout the country. Now the thugs are often the boss on the street. Everywhere we see destruction, abuse and theft. Last year, 5,500 cars burned in the Netherlands. People get threatened and spit on. The unsubs get away with it all the time. It's been like that for years. That must end once and for all. Take them, get them off the street and give them serious punishment. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot more we can do with all that money. Think of all the pensioners I mentioned at the beginning of my contribution. Surely it is an indescribable disgrace how they are treated? It's rude what this cabinet is doing to them. For years, pensioners have not been given any indexing of their pensions. Rutte IV also does not care about the elderly. In this country, it's better to be an asylum seeker than a retired person. You'll be treated better. The PVV considers it unacceptable that benefits and minimum wage should be increased, but not the AOW. I ask the Prime Minister where this hatred of the elderly comes from. What's going on? What do you have against the elderly? They've built our country, but they're not getting anything. You destroyed our country and you're back in the turret. Mr. Chairman. Pensioners in the Netherlands deserve not only an indexed pension, but also a higher AOW benefit, which is linked to the increase in the minimum wage. In the coming years, this cabinet will spend EUR 75 billion on everything. Shame on you, Mr. Rutte. Shame on you for spending EUR 75 billion, but you don't have a few billion left to increase the AOW of older people. Mr. Chairman. Whatever the breakdown of the Netherlands is, the plans for care are. This cabinet refuses to increase the ic capacity in the Netherlands structurally, not even to the average in European countries. It wants to keep the hospitals on the zero in the next year. So it wants to squeeze even more on the hospitals. The cabinet is even thinking of cutting a further EUR 5 billion on healthcare. That is an unprecedented disgrace. It's a huge blow to the face of everyone who works in care and anyone who uses it. Mr. Chairman. Then the nursing homes. In the nursing homes there is already a shortage of 31,000 employees. The cabinet is making this worse by a further EUR 400 million in structural savings on staff in nursing homes. That's inhumane. It's mostly unheard of as well. Dozens of billions! Dozens of billions of dollars spent on D66 hobbies, like nitrogen, but let our elders rot in the nursing home. They're the wrong choices from the wrong people in the wrong cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch are sick of the restrictions of freedom by corona. In the last month, we were back in a hard lockdown, as the only country in Europe, because we have half less ic capacity than the average in European countries. Meanwhile, the omikron variant is dominant. It's mild. Hospitals are empty. The Netherlands must now choose. Is it going to be blunt repression with 2G, demonstrations with unfortunately the associated violence, or are we, like the United Kingdom, going to scale down, tape down and learn to live as normally as possible with the virus? The PVV opts for the latter, but especially for investing in the care. So let the catering industry open today and give us our freedoms back. Mr. Chairman. Then the purchasing power. We find it unacceptable that Dutch people should return. Inflation is about 5% to 6%, the highest level in 40 years. Our money's gonna be worth less every day. And it is the middle incomes and the lower incomes that suffer the most from these high inflation rates, which far exceed the increase in wages. Working people, elderly people, single people and families: fuck Rutte IV. I really wonder: what world do these ministers actually live in? Who are they here for anyway? Do they have any idea how ordinary people can make ends meet? Is there anyone who'll tell them that? Is there anyone who tells them that people often have trouble paying their rent now, and that people have no idea how to incur the enormous rising energy costs and how to cough up their own risk in care? Do you know they have to tap the pump at the world's second-highest gas price? Do you know that groceries for people only become more expensive and expensive? And do you know that this is a huge disaster for millions of Dutch people? You reserve 60 billion for climate and nitrogen, but you do not compensate ordinary people for inflation, making everything more expensive, such as the energy bill. That makes you the worst cabinet ever. I want you to compensate 100% for the increase in the Dutch energy bill. Mr. Chairman. Of course, this cabinet is not what the Netherlands voted for last year. Last March, on the right, we received a majority in the elections, but we now have an extremely left-wing cabinet, which only seems to represent the Urgenda climate drones and refugee fanatics, with a VVD Secretary of State for Immigration and Asylum who said earlier: "The more asylum seekers, the better." That's a quote. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has gone crazy. They gave everything away. It is as if D66 achieved the absolute majority of the votes last March. Mrs. Kaag showed Rutte all the corners of the room. It was bending for Kaag or function elsewhere for Rutte. That was the only way for Rutte to stay in power. That is also the only thing that interests him: me, me, and the rest of the Netherlands can choke. He has chosen for his own sake and our country further collapsed the left-liberal decay of Kaag. Because Sigrid Kaag hates the Netherlands. She wants to destroy the Netherlands completely. It wants more European Union, more lucky seekers and immigrants, more money for development aid and Africa. So Rutte signed with the cross. So nothing will change at all. The talk, the deception, the lies, the hypocrisy, the wrong choices: everything remains the same or only gets worse. Rutte IV is Kaag I or Woke I or Ramp I; choose; it's all wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u145	Every day, in every debate, Mr Wilders has the opportunity to add content. But every day, for more than twenty years, Mr Wilders has chosen to sow fear, to make people suspicious, to display racism here, instead of adding content every day. We have just heard what all colleagues think about that. But I would like to add that Mr Wilders is consciously choosing to leave his constituents in the cold for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u146	Well, you've done your pee too, so you can sit back down. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet is the cabinet that should never have been built. It is the cabinet that pushes our country further into the swamp and has to leave as soon as possible. Because the PVV wants the ruins of Rutte and Kaag to be cleaned up, so that the Netherlands becomes a strong country again, in which we give our children and grandchildren the best future they can get, so that they can be proud of the Netherlands again and so that, when they are adults, they don't feel like strangers in their own country. We're putting Dutch people back on one. We say goodbye to the politics that is only there for the happy few, for the people who are already doing well, for the broad, fat political center of complacency rather than for the ordinary Dutch who get nothing at all. For that better Netherlands we are going to fight. To bring that better Netherlands closer, this cabinet must go. Now. Mr. Chairman. That is why I would like to table the next motion at first reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u147	You know what the rules are for that. Don't you want to wait for the debate? Would you like to file your motion immediately in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u148	I think my last sentence was: and that is why I would now like to table the following motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u149	I would like to ask my fellow Members if there is any support for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u150	Indeed, a majority of the House will have to support the fact that this will be done in the first term. That support is not on our side. It can be done in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u151	No support on my part either. We are here to hold the debate, and this does not fit in with the first-term motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u152	I haven't heard anything but suspicions, hate-sowinging, and taking people into account, so no substance. So there is no support whatsoever for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u153	Just "support" or "no support."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u154	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u155	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u156	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u157	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u158	I have not yet heard the motion, but unless the motion of censure concerns Mr Wilders himself: no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u159	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u160	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u161	I agree with Mr Klaver: no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u162	The motion can simply be filed in second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u163	I think anyone can table a motion in the first term. It shouldn't have anything to do with whether you're mad at Mr. Wilders or not. I'll back it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u164	We are familiar with these practices by Mr Rutte. He did this before. As far as we are concerned, everyone can table a motion and we can do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u165	We do not really have much difficulty with whether or not the motion is tabled in the first term. We will not support the motion, but that will follow later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u166	But you support the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u167	I'll allow the motion to be filed. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u168	I actually think it's nice when no one makes a motion in the first term. Then Mr. Rutte... I'm confusing you. Then Mr Wilders is the first in the second term. He is also the first speaker to be able to table a motion. Then you can. I must say, however, that Mr Rutte in the last debate was just the one who smuggled a motion. So I understand the point, but I do not think we should imitate Mr Rutte. Mr Wilders agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr. Wilders, there is no majority for your request. You can file the motion in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u170	We'll do it tomorrow. Then I'm left to thank everyone very much. I thought it was a very pleasant debate again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-18-tweedekamer-6.u171	Thank you. I suggest we suspend for 45 minutes for lunch.
