ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Spring paper 2022, the deadline for the cabinet. We have agreed that I will not limit the number of interruptions now either, but I do request that the interruptions be kept short. Then everyone will be discussed and there will be balance in the debate. I understand that I am also looking at the Prime Minister that an appreciation is also being given of the amendments that have been tabled today at the latest. Before we have the time to vote on the budgets, there will also be a comprehensive letter with all the appreciation of the amendments. Those were my household announcements. Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr President, thank you very much. Thanks to the Chamber, too. Of course, quite a few questions have been asked. At the same time, there was also a clear coherence in the discussion, so we have not been asked very much. But there is every reason to think about a few things. Let me start with the division. I will make a few general introductory remarks myself. There weren't many specific questions to me, so it's my plan that the Minister and Secretary of State for Finance should then proceed fairly quickly with the more specific, substantive answer to the questions. Or we'll see. Maybe I can make a few general comments on my part and then answer a single question that has been asked, but which does not directly touch the Spring Note alone. Firstly, it may be good to realise that this debate is taking place at a very special time. I believe that, among others, Mr Klaver said that, but I think that was also a fundamental point in the other contributions. It is a time when we have seen together that only a few years ago we came out of the fiercest recession after the war, that we have experienced the worst pandemic in 100 years over the last two years, and that the greatest aggression has been taking place in Europe since 24 February. If you look at recent history, then the terrible genocide in Srebrenica will of course come close, but the many thousands of deaths that are now the result of the Russian invasion in Ukraine are frankly in post-war Europe again, the Yugoslavia war was of course also a terrible low point. This, of course, also has far-reaching consequences for the situation in our part of the world. Indeed, it is not the case that these price increases started entirely with the Russian invasion, as Mr Wilders and others said, but they have, of course, been further strengthened. I can assume that part of that increase had to do with an expectation effect. You can see it in the pump, you can see it in the groceries and it really has a huge impact on our daily lives right now. Because not everything can be solved and dampened, I think it is inevitable that this will lead to loss of some of our prosperity. We are, of course, trying to limit this as much as possible, especially for those on low incomes and for the middle groups. But that's not going to work for them either. That's exactly what I'm saying in all honesty. We have taken all kinds of measures at an early stage. They have also been mentioned in defence by political groups that have been called upon to do so. I won't repeat them all. At the heart of the matter is the November package, when the first reports came in on the sharp rise in energy prices and, of course, the March package, added up to 6.5 billion, which has to do with the mitigation and some control of the effects on households, including energy taxes, VAT, excise duties and so on. These are all major measures, also in comparison with other European countries. The focus was on: what can you do in this current year and what gives immediate relief? That's what we did. In this Spring note we have also looked again at what we can do in terms of purchasing power. That is more like 2023, of course, I say a bit perceptive. I mention the statutory minimum wage and the linking of schemes, including the General Old Age Law, the AOW. We are doing this increase in the minimum wage a year earlier, and with that we are also doing the link. That is, of course, on top of the regular half-yearly adjustment. That's what we've done so far. I see Mr Wilders standing. I would, of course, like to give him the opportunity to ask a question, because that will give me the opportunity to make a few further comments, which his question will probably give rise to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Prime Minister. I understand that the Minister of Finance is likely to respond to our proposals and amendments and not to you. If that is the case, I would like to ask you the following general question. People in the Netherlands often do not understand your cabinet's choices. I'm asking you to understand these people. People are in trouble. In my term I have mentioned a number of poignant examples of people who do not receive their medicines or add their detergent. I won't repeat it all, but it's too terrible for words. I'm having a hard time dealing with that. I don't think we all do, if it's okay. Those people do not understand that you say 'yes, that is it then, perhaps there will be something from the opposition, but this will be it to a large extent before 2022', when you spend a lot of money on asylum seekers every day, on immigration, on climate. In reply to Mr Otten's questions in the First Chamber, you said: more than 100 billion in the end, all in all, to nitrogen and climate. People don't understand that. They think, "I'm in trouble, I can't pay my pills, I can't pay my bill, I can do groceries but put four products in the cart, and why does more than 100 billion go to those things?" Do you understand these people? Do you understand that they don't understand why Rutte doesn't choose them and doesn't choose those other things?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	A short summary of my answer is en-en. Let me start with the first "and," the people that Geert Wilders quoted in his speech. The examples touch us all, I think. We must realise that a whole series of measures we discussed in the Chamber in March/April are only now beginning to have effect. For example, the €800 energy surcharge is now almost paid by the municipalities. The energy tax will be reduced on 1 July. The regular increase in the minimum wage will also take place on 1 July. These are all measures that are going to affect people's purchasing power this year. I would add that the picture presented by the Central Planning Bureau is the picture of the end of 2023, assuming that all measures will expire at the beginning of 2023. The question is, of course, how we deal with this in the context of the August decision-making process. That's what we have to see together. I take these examples very seriously. Again, on the other hand, many of the measures taken are only now really felt in people's pockets. I hope this will also help with the examples. Then the second "and." We both have to do it. This country must remain a modern country with the ability to guarantee job growth, including for the future. We now have the lowest unemployment in our history, the highest employment and the highest economic growth. In addition to Singapore and the United States, the Netherlands is almost the most competitive economy in the world, but we must remain so for the longer term. This can only be done if this country is passed on cleanly with all the innovative power behind it, so that both CO, nitrogen, etc. emissions are reduced, and the economy is modernised and this remains a modern country. This is crucial for the longer term, especially in order to regain tax revenues for our health care and for supporting people who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	That may be the case in the Prime Minister's view, and I believe that he still means it, but that is of course of no use to these people now. What is going to happen again this year is not enough to compensate the people from the examples I mentioned. I'm not asking you to compensate twice for this. I ask you to compensate the people I mentioned in my examples. If they then hear that you are dealing with that nitrogen and climate you can't make a sandwich out of it, you can't get any medication from it, you can't live in it and you can't pay any groceries from it, no matter how beautiful it is described it spends 100 billion, that's not to be understood. These people will see further development aid and Europe. We have even provided 40 billion in loans and donations to a European Recovery Fund. Come with a recovery fund and a recovery site for the Netherlands! Don't you think, Prime Minister Rutte, that if you look at the polls, I know you don't care so much about polls, but this is a very shocking thing, you can see that 87% of Dutch people no longer have confidence in your cabinet? Couldn't that have something to do with the fact that you may be making wrong choices according to a lot of Dutch people? Could that not be due to the fact that you are focusing on more asylum, more nitrogen and less purchasing power? These are, by chance, all points that are about in the D66 election programme, but that aside. It is not for nothing that 87% of the people say: we no longer trust your cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	I do not believe that the D66 election programme said'more asylum seekers'. In my view, the electoral programme of all the parties of this coalition states that we must try to deal with asylum policy properly, including getting people out of here who cannot stay. That is also what the entire coalition agreement is written on: decent care and at the same time ensuring that people who cannot stay here leave. We're all taking action for that. The other areas, nitrogen and climate, can also be found in all four election programmes, because these parties are committed, among other things, by the conviction that we need to further modernise the country. It can't just be normalized. This also requires financial support. A mix of measures is needed: standardisation, finance, innovation. We're lucky to have that money together. So it's en-and. That is why, at the same time, we have taken the measure of, for example, €800 income support for the people with the lowest incomes. It is now actually starting to come to benefits. 85% of the municipalities have paid out or are in the process of doing so. That's what people are about to notice. This is a relatively substantial amount on a low income, combined with the fact that on 1 July the minimum wage is going to rise regularly and that on 1 July the reduction of energy taxes will become palpable. These are all measures that still need to be felt and which are absolutely going to have an impact on the group that Mr Wilders has put forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	I'm gonna go on with my next question. I can't get an answer to a piece of the PM's self-reflection. How could it possibly be that 87% of Dutch people, I think, was a representative poll of EenVandaag, said they no longer have faith in the Rutte IV cabinet? I asked him: don't you think that's because you don't meet the people who are in financial trouble sufficiently..................................................................................................................................................... You don't do enough. You're not going to go into that, and I'm sorry about that. I'll talk to the Minister of Finance about my proposals in a moment. With so much money for other purposes, I think you should spend at least 10 billion on the Dutch. My final question is the AOW. We in the Netherlands have a lot of elderly people who are incredibly difficult. We don't have that many elderly people with only AOW. They're there though very many older people with a small supplementary pension. Several motions in the First Chamber of my party, of JA21, of GroenLinks, have called you to make the link. I am speaking on behalf of my group, but I think we have all meant that this is additional to the measures that exist. And what are you doing now? You make the AOW link by abolishing the planned increase in the old age discount, by also abolishing the old age tax reserve for self-employed workers, the FOR, and by abolishing income support for AOW workers. The latter is that if you have built up a full AOW, you will get €25 per month. That's a lot for people, $25 a month. And that amount is next year and the following year as much as the coupling recovers or sustains what it costs. So it's 100% a cigar out of its own box. I want to defend it for the elderly in the Netherlands. They already have the problem that their supplementary pensions have not been indexed, quite wrongly. Today there was a large piece of a professor in the newspaper saying: the pension funds are rich enough, index those supplementary pensions now. And then you do something for the elderly at least you leave the decoupling of the elderly behind and then you let them pay for it yourself! Do you understand that the elderly in the Netherlands now feel pricked?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	Maybe three brief remarks. First, Wilders says 10 billion. Then we're not far apart, with the 6 billion we did, plus what's all in the spring note now. It turns out that the big political differences in the Netherlands always end in shades of grey. Again, with 6 billion plus the Spring note, we're getting pretty close to 10 billion. The second point is the AOW. A bare coupling would lead to further de-levelling. It would be particularly beneficial for higher incomes. Even the most right-wing flank of my party might be a little too furious. That is why I find it very explainable that we have sought cover within the elderly file, in order to ensure that the people with AOW and a small pension benefit from it in particular. You can also see that in the purchasing power picture. Finally, on the second pillar pensions. This is also the subject of discussions in pension legislation, so that it is possible to index more quickly. That's really important, if that's safe. There are plans to see whether, in anticipation of pension legislation, you can work on that. But it has to be very careful, because we have to ensure that basic solidarity in these pensions is maintained, namely that the younger generations can also count on a good pension and that the older generations can count on that not to an unreasonable extent buffers are built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	Finally, there is a reaction to this. First of all, the difference. I'm not trying to make the differences bigger than necessary, but I mean 10 billion on top of the 6 billion you have. So 10 billion more, on top of those two packages of yours. I demand that you do. If you wish to have the support of my party for your cabinet and for the Spring Note, you will have to give an additional 10 billion to that 6 billion, i.e. a total of 16 billion, for the Dutch. For the elderly, of course, that's not a story. For years they have been in trouble with their supplementary pensions. They're not gonna get a dime. Then you now promise, forced by the Chamber, that this link, which is 7.5%, will continue, but then you will remove it from the elderly themselves. You say, yes, de-levelling. Those elders have earned that money! They're not getting anything. Now you give something with the left hand and you take it with the right hand right away. That's unfair. Are you prepared to revise that and find another cover for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	We have this debate with each other, of course, to see which ideas come from the Chamber and how we can deal with them. But if Mr Wilders puts that as such a dictation, then the answer will be 'no'. Or does he say: just look at separate proposals made by the PVV? The Minister for Finance will, of course, discuss this later, but of course in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	Before you go any further, there is a question from Mr Klaver, then Mr Van Raan and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	Let's save time. I never said nothing's gonna happen. Now I'm gonna ask a question, so I would...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	Oh, sorry, I thought I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	No, no. I would like it if I did not get a list of what the cabinet has already done. I would like to point out what is not happening now. Something's happening with that supplement. For people with benefits and for people who are just up there, it comes €800. That's starting to get steamed up right now. But there's a group of workers who don't get that money. Too little has actually been done for this at the moment. My very specific question is: why was this Spring paper not chosen to take another step there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	This has not been chosen, because choices need to be made in scarcity. At the same time, we are not choking on our own. That is what I think you saw earlier in the debate in the reactions of the coalition groups. There are a number of proposals from the opposition. The Minister of Finance will go further into how we want to look at this in the coming weeks and months, to see if we could land there somewhere and reach a common position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	Choices in scarcity? We actually knew before the CPB report came out. That report has now shown that 700,000 people are already in trouble. A large part of this, at least 300,000 people, is not achieved with the plans made by the cabinet. This amounts to over a million. We really know that with the way it is now developing, we are in that scenario in the autumn. It was deliberately chosen not to take up anything for that. Choices in scarcity? What was the substantive argument for not doing anything about it in this Spring note?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	The Spring note naturally builds on the packages that exist. These do indeed affect Mr Klaver, for example, the €800 income support for lower incomes. There are also many measures in the areas of excise duty and VAT. I refer to the energy tax as of 1 July. In any case, the minimum wage will go up regularly on 1 July. In this whole mix of measures, we think this is a balanced package. The CPB mainly outlines what is happening in the lower term. That is indeed very worrying. That is why we have said that we need to look into this in the decision-making process in August. What do you see in this debate now? Mr. Clover and others... I can see that Mr Klaver is looking very hopefully at me. I don't quite know how to interpret his face.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	In fact, it's a big deal!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	Meewarig. Then I've already lost in advance. I'm gonna try to answer the question anyway. Mr Klaver, Mrs Kuik and others have, of course, made all kinds of understandable proposals. We are going to take these proposals into account in this debate and next, to see if there can be a different assessment. At least, if that's possible. That's not easy, because that's gonna take cover. That didn't just happen, but we're gonna take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	Of course, it could be me with my lack of experience here in this Chamber. I thought the debate on the Spring Paper was the time not to say that we are going to look at things, but to make decisions with each other. At least before the summer, because then we have to vote on supplementary budgets. This is the time to move money for this year. So we're gonna see that in time? That's what this moment was for. I'm looking coy because this is the second time. The first time, I thought it was a slip. The CPB report I have in my hands here is not an estimate. So it doesn't say anything about next year. It sketches scenarios. We're halfway through those scenarios now. The report says 1.2 million people could get into trouble. Right now in time, not once, but already half of those people are getting into trouble. We knew that. That is why we have put forward concrete proposals there. You say we may meet in the future, but I just want to know now. We made a proposal. We're gonna talk about the technique in a minute. I am concerned about the political appreciation of it. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take further steps this year to help this group of people? Because that's what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	The Minister of Finance will come back to this in a moment. This is important because all the different proposals that have been made, the solidarity levy, looking at more revenue in the sphere of taxation, the €500 proposal through one of the surcharges, the freezing of rents, of course, also have a number of technical implications. It's not like they can all just be easy. The Minister for Finance will look into this in a moment. She will outline when we think we know more about it. Then we can see together what that ultimately means for the purchasing power picture, especially for 2023, in most of those cases. If you look through the hairs of the eye, the €500 might be possible this year. This year's rent freeze is gonna be really hard. I can't do that anymore. The other measures are more yield measures. You can also use it for 2023. Anyway, she's about to go into that with an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	We're about to have that debate. I was interested in the political appreciation. Indeed, the Prime Minister has just said that we need to make choices in scarcity, and that the choice is not to do anything extra. Now he's actually saying, and I think I'm hearing this for the first time: for this year it should still be possible to bring at least an extra €500 to that group where we're not getting close. Am I to understand that there is a political will?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	I can't say that black and white. We're gonna have to be very specific for a while. I hear this proposal. We're not saying we reject that. I do not think that has happened from the coalition groups either. But there are technical aspects to it. That is what the Minister of Finance is about to discuss. There are also coverage aspects to it. This proposal must also be covered. Some coverage proposals have been made in the Chamber from different angles. All this must be seen in conjunction. We must, of course, look at the kind of expiry date on which this could be technically done this year. I do not think we need to commit ourselves to weeks now, where we are doing so very quickly and perhaps not well enough, if we know that now we are paying €800. The question is also how much time you give yourself for that. That's what the Minister of Finance is about to discuss. It is not that we say yes or no to that proposal. We say that we want to take it seriously and that we want to discuss it with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	Finally, Mr President. What I want to be careful about is that this proposal is now being drawn into technology and discussed how complicated it is and where it is. When we had the conversation, we also put this on the table. You said that it would be looked at again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	That's what we started with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	I just don't get it. Again, this is the debate on the Spring Note. This is the time to move money. If the Prime Minister says "we're gonna do that in the next few weeks," what's he thinking? We can go further after this debate, but I assume that this will be settled before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	Well, you don't necessarily have to. Maybe we should. The Minister of Finance will say a few things about this too. Once again, this raises the whole question of coverage and the question raised by political groups about other middle groups to be reached. However, looking at this proposal in isolation, the question of technology and coverage arises. There is also the question of what is the final moment when this is still possible. Technically, it's complicated. What the two groups are actually saying is: you could do that through one of the supplements, for example the care allowance. That's what a large group of people achieve. That is not the care allowance itself, but the group of the care allowance. In her term Mrs Kuik has put that very precisely. But that's not one-two-three organized. That's really asking for a piece of technique to be figured out. That's not meant to slow things down or kick them forward. We look seriously at that, but again, along a number of lines. I want to be very precise. Otherwise, we also create false expectations. This has to be covered, too. Two. There is also the justified question of what you do for other middle groups, how it will work in technology and whether or not it can. We will have to discuss this with each other intensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you. Very briefly, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	Finally, Mr President. Soon we will continue the substantive debate with the Minister of Finance. Oh, my God, I'm so uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	That's not my intention. That's never my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	No, but you still have that effect in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	I have to live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	There's been some inconvenience to me. That's what we've been talking about since March. We made the first proposals in March. If you say "we need to work this out even further" now, I wonder what you've done in the past few weeks. What have you been figuring out since you were with us and we brought this forward? Then what did you choose in the intervening weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	Of course, work has been done on that. But as I said, it is technically more complicated than Mr Klaver thinks. We just need to be real about that. It's not impossible, it's complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	The Prime Minister does indeed outline what is happening. He also says, "We're gonna see what else can happen." At the same time, I must also think about what Mrs Simons said so strikingly, that some people in the Netherlands simply don't have money for the basic needs. Then the Prime Minister makes the point: we are going to pass the country on nicer and cleaner. I actually want to get him out of the dream: that's not gonna happen at all this way. The economic system of Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister, is like the emperor who has no clothes on. To feed the Netherlands, twice the area of the Netherlands is needed. Earth Overshoot Day falls for the Netherlands in May. So something will have to change in the system. Is the Prime Minister prepared to take those steps? Is he going to work on a system change?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	If that means letting go of free enterprise production, our capitalist market organization, then I say no. If Mr Van Raan means that making choices in scarcity is not only a financial thing, but that this also has to do with CO impact, broad climate impact, nitrogen and with all the other issues that human life entails and the consequences that it has for our earth and therefore for our country, then of course he is right. That's what we're doing with our plans, I think. In a mix of innovation and standardisation, but also with a considerable amount of money that we are trying to put in place so that we can best guide the people and the companies in it, I think the cabinet shows that it is willing to carry out one of the biggest transformations in the history of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	I would like to believe it; I mean it sincerely. Free enterprise: fine. But we know that the capitalist system, which is based on exploitation and exhaustion, is not feasible. All the signals stand, looking at the wide prosperity, almost in red, especially the crucial indicators in it. So what is the Prime Minister going to do to bring the economy within the limits of the planet? Surely that will have to start with recognising that it is not happening in the current way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	Isn't that what breathes the entire coalition agreement? That also breathes the electoral programs of the four parties that support the cabinet. I am looking at the great transformation that we want to see in the next few years in terms of climate, nitrogen and, moreover, in terms of our safety and education. This is not only about education as a label, but also how we achieve that it doesn't matter where your dining table and your bedroom were, but whether you can reach the top based on your own abilities and you don't get blamed for not having the conversations at your home that were held in Wassenaar, the opportunity crisis. All these elements are in the coalition agreement. Those are really big transitions. They all have to do with the choices in scarcity. What Mr Van Raan particularly points out here is the scarcity of climate, nature and so on. I'll share that with him. Choices will have to be made. And we will. I think last week's letter on the impact of nitrogen is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	I note that, unfortunately, the Prime Minister does not go into the hard facts. The footprint of the Netherlands is so much larger that the promises outlined in the election programmes and in the policy cannot be fulfilled. Then I remain convinced that Mr Rutte's system is like an emperor without clothes. And sticking patches doesn't help anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	Then perhaps we should talk about where Mr Van Raan sees the problems at another time. I would like to tell him that he should be a little more optimistic. We now have a cabinet willing to invest massively in these major system changes. That really has to be done. I believe that this country will look completely different in 2030 than in 2015. Out of the 10 million jobs we have, potentially 1 to 2 million will be in very different sectors, directly linked to the major innovations that must take place in the field of energy and climate transition, for example. So I am optimistic about it with the cabinet. Only, whatever I heard in Mrs Simons' speech, is a more fundamental rejection of the capitalist organization of the market. The cabinet doesn't agree with that. We believe that free enterprise production is still the best way to achieve a good allocation of labour, capital and raw materials.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	It is precisely about the capitalist market organization that we are discussing here. The Prime Minister must recognize that this whole neoliberal idea of organizing our economy as a trickle down, so that if things are going well with the big companies, if things are going well with the people, they will not work? We've been analyzing for a while that doesn't work. If the Prime Minister is looking at the current situation, in which the big companies are going well and hysterical profits are being made there, but at the same time, according to the CPB up to 1.2 million households, so many more people are going down hard through the financial floor, should he recognise that the neoliberal economy and the capitalist market organization are not working? Doesn't he have to see that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that neoliberalism would not work. Fortunately, we do not have that in the Netherlands either. I do not know whether there are countries based on a neoliberal order. At least I wouldn't want to live there and I wouldn't be in favour of it. Fortunately, the Netherlands is not. As far as she is concerned, the following points are made. It's not like this cabinet believes in a trickledown system. I do not do that myself, and I also believe that none of the coalition parties are in favour of such a system. We believe in a very strong small and medium-sized enterprises that is innovative, but has a huge interest in the pulling chimney of large companies that are able to accelerate innovation. One example is our climate and energy transition. It is of course incredibly important that the Netherlands is Shell's second home market. That's a huge opportunity. Where Shell has to go through this big energy transition to keep the company alive for a long time, that is mirrored exactly our energy transition. Shell is willing to invest massively in it; the cabinet is willing to invest in parts as well. When it comes to wind at sea up to and including the green hydrogen backbone, you can see that the Netherlands can really lead the way, partly because of these big companies. Does that mean that what big companies do is always good? No. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that all kinds of things are not going well with these big companies either. But one of the reasons why we are today as prosperous as we are is the fact that, in a strong economic order, we have a very strong and wealthy small and medium-sized enterprises that use the texture of large companies and the power they have. At the same time, we must take care of the people who are in financial difficulties, especially because of current inflation and high energy prices. That is what we need the tax revenues that these companies generate. That is what the package of more than 6 billion is aimed at. We are looking together with the Chamber at the decision-making process in August to see what else is needed and if anything else is needed this year. That is what this debate is about. We're not gonna finish that today, I think, but I do think we're gonna get together about a few things to figure things out and talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	It is always fascinating how the Prime Minister reacts in debates to the term "neoliberalism." Then it is: waahwaah! There is absolutely no question of it, it is something dirty and he would not want to live in such a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	Well, I'd say welcome to a country where you've been running a cabinet for years. Then the Prime Minister comes up with a very nice story about Shell and the importance of the big companies, while my question was precisely about the fact that the Prime Minister has to acknowledge that we are now seeing that this idea and the organization of our economy is not working. We see that, don't we? Shell is incredibly well. There the profits are made and distributed among the shareholders. But we also see that an ever larger group in the Netherlands is simply sinking through the financial soil. That is not just what we say as SP, that is what more and more parties say. That's what the CPB says. That is the great contradiction in the capitalist market organization that shows that it is going wrong and that it does not work for the majority of the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	But it is not the case that all the big companies... Look how heavy the big construction companies in the Netherlands are at the moment because of the problems with nitrogen and of all kinds of things that are involved in large construction projects. As a result, many of these companies are currently in a very difficult situation. So it's not that all the big companies are always doing well. It is true that oil companies are doing very well because of high oil prices. Yeah, that's right. This is, of course, being thrown into the lap, as the problem of low oil prices is being thrown into the lap. I only note that if you look at the great climate and energy transition, for example, it is nice that the Netherlands, with its universities in Delft and Eindhoven, with Shell but also with a strong BP and Exxon, is able to take the lead in that energy transition. That's internationally recognized. I was a few weeks ago with Rob Jetten, the Minister for Climate and Energy in Esbjerg in Denmark at the so-called "windtop," together with the Belgians and the Germans and the Commission. The Netherlands is at the forefront of this. We are being looked at: how we make tenders, how we shape these wind farms, how we work with business. That is very important. It creates jobs, and it ultimately results in that energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	I think a lot of people can't do anything with a chauvinistic story from the Prime Minister about how fantastic our business is internationally on the map and that he was recently in Denmark at a summit about... Sorry, I don't remember exactly what it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	Wind. Wind power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	Wind. My question was, for the third time, the next. We see that an increasingly large group of people, ordinary Dutch, hardworking Dutch people, if you like, are financially sinking into the ground. I ask your analysis what that means for the organization of our economy. I would ask you to acknowledge that this capitalist organization of the market is making sure that these companies are indeed doing very well. You really don't have to explain that to me, Prime Minister. Everyone can see that. My point is that with an ever larger part of the Netherlands things are not going well at all. If you refuse to acknowledge that this is fundamentally wrong in our economy, then nothing will ever change substantially.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	I think that is a bit of a false contradiction, unless Mrs Marijnissen says: this is a basis for what some people call the solidarity levy or windfall tax. Then I'll understand better. Of course, you can take a serious look at that. The Minister for Finance will discuss this further. Comments were also made on the Court's first term. I personally believe we like each other, but we simply disagree politically, Mrs Marijnissen and I. What I always find a little complicated is that I don't see the point of basing these big companies. Not that I always defend them; the VVD has really been through a change. Not everything big companies do is right. There are also a lot of things that are not good and we have to deal with them hard, but I am glad that we have the pulling chimney of the big companies in the Netherlands. This makes our economy quite unique and innovative. So let's not be so negative about that. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	I do not think this is about being negative or bashing large companies. In my turn, I find it a little faint of the Prime Minister to dismiss my criticism in this way. I'm not doing that at all. I ask him, for the fourth time now, to respond to that contradiction and to acknowledge that there is something fundamentally wrong in the organization of your economy, when on the one hand the big companies are turning like a tierelier. Indeed, there are also companies that are struggling, but let's not deny that the profits that are now being made by the big companies are already higher than in 2019 and that was an absolute record year when it comes to the profits made by large companies. We're at that level again. At the same time, there is an increasingly large group of Dutch people who simply don't know where to look anymore, who simply can't pay the bills. Working people who simply live in poverty, in the Netherlands. That contradiction, that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	But isn't it true that people are living in poverty because these companies are so big? I think that's a false contradiction. That's what I just said. I note that since 2015, the Netherlands has experienced the highest economic growth of almost all Western economies. As a result, employment is virtually full at the moment, with all the problems arising from unfilled job vacancies. As a result, we are able to finance from tax revenues the world's second best health system and the world's best pension system. As a result, we are able to tackle the problems in education with a billion-dollar investment, we are also able to add more than 5 billion to the Defence budget in one go, raising 40%, so that we can continue to defend our country. That's because our business is coughing up so much money together. This is for the most part small and medium-sized enterprises, but once again, it is important that these large companies, too, are producing and generating pullpower. Three out of four people in the Netherlands work in the private sector. That is where the money is made that we can spend wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	Thank you. Let's go see Mrs. Chicken, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	I would like to continue with Mr Klaver's questions. I feel warmth, don't I? I feel outstretched hands, open eyes, picking, exploring, in itself logical proposals. It's also said what could be. I'm an optimist, but I'm not easily satisfied. Experiences from the past teach you to be very sharp with each other here. We are now working on the spring note and not on the August decision-making or the autumn decision-making, because then you will basically look at the next year and we are now working on this year. My question to the Prime Minister is once again: is the Cabinet prepared to decide on the measures we have proposed before the summer, so that they can actually enter this year? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	Well, when the question is asked like that, the answer is no, but I think it's more nuanced and we're closer together. But once again, the Minister of Finance is going to go into that in a moment, because she has all the details, as far as we know. We don't know a lot of things, either. We're gonna find out. I don't want to increase expectations too much. We need to figure out a number of technical issues. I don't do that to get things moving, because I also understand that if we don't come up with a good story, Mrs. Chicken will say in a few weeks or in August: how am I going to find it? Unless we come up with a good story. We have to look at all these questions, the technology, the coverage and the question of the wider middle group, on which she had a debate with Mrs Hermans, over the next few weeks. Different thoughts have been generated in this debate, for example about the €500. That might be possible in technical terms this year, but we need to look very carefully at how this can be done and whether this must be done now or whether it can be done in the August decision-making process. Is there now a great rush to do so immediately? To be honest, we do not think so, because it is now starting to pay €800. But I understand your desire to do it this year. Maybe that doesn't necessarily have to be before the summer, but maybe it has to be technically before the summer. That's what we're trying to figure out right now. The Chamber is regularly updated on this issue so that we can follow each other very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	But that's as far as I can go. I understand what Mrs. Chicken is doing. She's trying me, of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	We have a difference of opinion on what is needed. We see, not on the basis of figures from ourselves, but on the basis of figures from the CPB, from economists, from the Nibud, from municipalities and from food banks, that there is a need now. That need is gonna be bigger than what the Cabinet has covered. If you want to do something for those families, for the people who can't make ends meet, for the postmen, the home care workers and the mechanics who drive to work every day, you have to do something now. Now it's momentum. When we said in January that you should do more, the answer was: no, that is complicated. When you came to us for coffee, the answer was: that's complicated and we're not in that much hurry. I feel that haste, so I think it's time to make a decision. Now it's momentum, with the spring note. Otherwise, we'll end up in a political gravel box. That is not so bad politically, because then we simply disagree, but that is bad for the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	Our first estimate is that this 500 € might still be possible this year. That does not necessarily have to be decided in the next week, because there is still a lot to figure out and there is still a lot to be covered. Perhaps we do not fully agree on the exact timing within the year, because the €800 is just starting to pay off, coupled with the regular increase in the minimum wage on 1 July and the fact that the energy tax will also be reduced on 1 July. Anyway, I also hear very well what Mrs Kuik says, so let's think about that a little bit further to see if we can speed things up. But we need to know that very precisely and not make mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	Mrs Simons is next and then Mr Omtzigt. Perhaps it would be good if the Prime Minister continued his speech afterwards. Then we can see if there are any questions after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	I would very much like to know from the Prime Minister whether he has ever been hungry. Hungry, no appetite. Not hungry for anything, but hungry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	Has he ever been cold? Not fresh, but cold. Because that is what we are talking about today. These are the consequences, the real consequences for real people who now have to listen to the praises of liberal capitalism. Has this gentleman ever been hungry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	No, but with all due respect to the Chamber, that's a false contradiction. That is what I said to Mrs Marijnissen. There are companies that run well and thus also generate tax revenues, so that we are able to maintain a fantastic social system in the Netherlands and to finance our health care and education. It is almost said that these companies are operating well and there are also problems. There are now acute problems due to rising inflation and rising energy prices. That is why the cabinet has decided on a very large package in two steps. Even if you compare the European one, it is a very significant package, of more than 6 billion. The €800 for the people with the lowest incomes is now starting to come to benefits. That's all gonna help. We can't solve everything with that. But if you look at the total of measures we are taking, and we also focus on the lower incomes and the middle groups, then I think it's just decent. You're gonna have to look again later. Then more is needed; that is the discussion on the €500, but also the discussion on 2023. We just want to hang out in that together. But I think the contradiction is a bit black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	I didn't argue. I didn't talk about big companies. I asked if the Prime Minister could move around in people who are hungry, come home from their second job and tell the children: today we do not eat hot food. That's what I asked for. I didn't put up any opposition. I hope that, with such a question, the Prime Minister will understand that we are talking about real concerns among real people. They are not dealing with Shell and the fact that it is unfair that no tax is paid there; that is what we are talking about here. This was a very direct question. Can you imagine people in this country over 1 million people who have to watch the Prime Minister defend that in companies... How many people actually work at Shell? All those jobs we're supposed to lose, how many are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	I have been Secretary of State for Social Affairs for two years at the beginning of my political career, responsible for poverty policy. That was at a time when our child poverty was twice as high as today and the number of people in welfare was twice as high as today. I talked to a lot of people at the time who had it incredibly hard. What you do see is that this cabinet is also working terribly hard on it.It is not because of the welfare standard in the Netherlands, because after Sweden it is the highest in the world, but that is almost always because people are in debt. What I am incredibly happy about with this coalition is that we have decided to do a lot to support people with a small stock exchange and debt as best we can. That's what Carola Schouten, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions, is doing every day. Also through the Participation Act, that minister is working with the entire cabinet to ensure that we can deal with these problematic debts, because almost always...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I'm asking a question; I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	Yes, I'm giving it to you, because the question was: can you imagine what people are going through? The answer to that is yes. I have not experienced it myself, but those two years have taught me that there is also another side of the Netherlands, as Ad Melkert once said in the 1990s, namely the side of the Netherlands that cannot come, which is struggling, which is in the welfare system. If you're gonna see what's causing the biggest pain in there, you can see that those are problematic debts and how we deal with them. I think that has been a quest in recent years and that this cabinet, together with the Chamber, now has an approach to achieving it. This is going to take years, but we will work on this every day, precisely because the group mentioned by Mrs Simons is also very important to me. That is also cohesion in society: that people who are in such a situation do not stand aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	How many people work at Shell, around and around? That's what I'd like to know from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	My point with these big companies is not so much that they themselves...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	It's my question. It may not be your point, but it is my question: how many people work around Shell?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	I didn't prepare for the question of how many people work at Shell. My argument about these large companies is not to glorify these large companies, nor to say that as such they provide a great deal of employment, but to say that they are important for the pull of our economy, because they are an accelerator for the innovative capacity of our small and medium-sized enterprises. In that combination we are strong. That leads to tax revenues. You need these tax revenues to finance poverty policies, education, our benefits, our health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	I may be wrong, of course, but the last time I checked, I noticed that most of the Dutch tax revenue comes not from companies like Shell, but from all of us. My father used to say, in this country, you even have to pay taxes when you go to the bathroom. So the Prime Minister is lying here. Our tax revenues do not depend on these large companies. On the contrary, we are a tax haven for these big companies. Those are the facts. Then the Prime Minister says: a few years ago, when collective debt was also very high in the Netherlands, I saw what that could lead to. At the moment, people are in debt because of the cost of their energy, their housing costs and food, the costs that children incur and you name it. That's just normal life; they don't do anything special. That's why they're gonna go through that again, so we're gonna get into debt. How nice would it be if we went to a system that's fair and just and with which we have this problem at the root of the radix, remember, Mr. Rutte? Trying to deal with this and not giving you false information about companies that make sure we have tax revenues here? The citizen pays the most taxes here. I would therefore be pleased if questions were asked from the Chamber, not only a direct answer, but also an honest answer. So I'm sticking with that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	What's your question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	My question is whether the Prime Minister is holding on to what I have heard him say more often and again, namely that we in the Netherlands depend on companies that do not even pay full tax here. It's just not true. I would like to know from the Prime Minister at what point he is prepared to face this painful truth, which is true. Because the Dutch citizen, the Dutch population, suffers from every day that lasts longer. In fact... and then I really wrap up, Mr. Chairman. I understand what you're saying, Mrs Simons, it should be a little shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's why. But then we come to the point that I would like to know from this Prime Minister, in his liberal language, how he himself feels about the way he deals with the human capital, the so-called human resources, which must keep our economy running for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	I hear different questions. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yes. I'm trying to answer them, too. To begin with, the Minister of Finance was kind enough to look that up for a moment.......................................................................................................................................................................... That's quite considerable, but again, that was not my argument. Even if it had been less, it is important that you have these big, innovative companies to further stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises to innovate in that cooperation. ASML is now the largest European company. That's a Dutch company in Eindhoven. This is typically a company that works in a network with a lot of suppliers. They are extremely important to each other, are extremely innovative and are years ahead of competition. That gives the Netherlands a head start. This also leads to more tax revenues. And they are important in order to be able to finance all the things Mrs Simons mentions here. Mrs Simons is asking a more fundamental question. She says: I actually want to go to a different organization of society. I respect that of her, but I do not agree with her on that and that is not the intention of the cabinet either. I would advise the Netherlands not to do so, because that will lead to a impoverishment of the Netherlands. Now to the group we're both worried about. These are the people with a small income who, as Mrs Simons rightly says, have not only incurred debts because of problems arising from a divorce or from another major event in life, but are now in debt because of rising prices because of everyday life. That's what she's right to say. It is precisely because we are all concerned about this that we, as a cabinet and with the Chamber, have agreed on, for example, the compensation for the lowest incomes, all the agreements have been made on, for example, the reduction of energy taxes, and we have now just this debate with each other to see what we should do on top of that in August 2023, and also, on the initiative of a number of groups here, even before 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you. Finalizing, Mrs. Simons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u85	That was a very long question; I admit that. I've had a little trouble formulating from time to time. My final question goes on for a moment in the discussions that the Prime Minister has had with Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Van Raan and others here. I actually asked that question just now, but I didn't get an answer. At what point will this Prime Minister see that things are no longer as they are now? €800 is not going to do anything for the people who are structurally out of the boat. Then we'll have this conversation again next year, but the group of people who need it is bigger. At what point will the Prime Minister see that this is a systemic problem and has nothing to do with whether you're getting divorced or not? I find it really impertinent every time, I would almost say, to keep pushing people in that individual direction: it's because of you, because you got divorced. No, we're talking systemic problems here. What should happen before the Prime Minister is prepared to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u86	First a misunderstanding; it is absolutely not the intention to push people in a particular direction. I outlined in the debate with Mrs Simons on the problem of debt only that, under normal circumstances, it is often caused by major changes in people's lives. I agree with her that they are now threatened by the cost of everyday life. I agree with her, and that is why the cabinet and the Chamber decided in two steps to make a very substantial financial contribution, including in the European comparison. The discussion is now what you should do further in 2023, and whether something extra might need to be done in 2022. And how do you fund that? Then other parties say: beware, it is not just the people with lower incomes; the middle groups are also starting to get very heavy. I think that all of these are real discussions. There are also concrete proposals. They are not going to lead to decision-making today. I'm just warning you, that's not gonna work today. That will have to be taken up further, including in technology. Then we also have to see whether it has to be for the summer, or whether it can be in August. I think that's the conversation we need to have today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u87	Thank you. First Mr Omtzigt and then, I think, Mr Paternotte. And then I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to answer the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u88	Yes. I'm almost through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u89	The Prime Minister lists a number of measures he has taken for purchasing power, but that is the addition of measures. What matters, of course, is whether these measures at individual level offer some relief for the people. So let's take someone as an example, someone who cleans up. They deserve the minimum wage. And then the Prime Minister says: the minimum wage was raised on 1 July. That's right; it's increased by €0,18 per hour. That's about €30 per month, so €20 net because there's still a bit of tax going on. And because you earn the minimum wage, you earn too much for that $800 supplement. Our cleaner does not receive a €800 surcharge, but €0,18 per hour extra, so just over €20 in the month. But he's dealing with a normal energy bill. So he doesn't have a cheap house. He gets a doubling of the energy bill; it goes up by €100 per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u90	Shh.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u91	And food prices are rising in such a way that this costs €20 to €30 per month extra. So €20 extra...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u92	Gentlemen, I'm trying to listen to Mr. Ommzigt. Sorry, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u93	I was distracted too; I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u94	Actually, that's my part, sorry. Slightly quieter in the back of the room, because otherwise the Prime Minister will find it difficult to concentrate. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u95	So you're dealing with a normal case here. This is not an exceptional case. It's someone with the minimum wage. The problem here is this. The problem is not that unemployment in the Netherlands is too high. The Prime Minister is right to say that it is low and we are proud of it. The problem is, you can't live off that minimum wage anymore. There are people who don't get a supplement and who have to choose between food and heating. They canceled all their subscriptions and can't go out anymore. What is the message for this group of people who surrender 5%, 6%, 7% purchasing power and completely sink through the ice? That's because of everything that's happening. I do not say 'by cabinet policy'; it is because of the combination of what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u96	That's a fair question. The answer isn't that we can dampen all that. That's one. It is probably also true that most cases are just outside regulations. They'll be over 120% wml. Some municipalities go up to 130% wml at the €800. These are people who are outside the €800 concession. Omtzigt was right to calculate that. What is true is that these people benefit from a number of other measures we are taking, such as reducing energy taxes, VAT and excise duties. They will also benefit from the measures we took last year in the first package of 3.2 billion. That won't be enough to solve the whole problem. It's one of the reasons why I think the minimum wage should be raised. That's what all parties in the Chamber actually think, including the coalition parties. That's what we're gonna do before. We are having a real debate here. Could you look together, even for a broader basis under government policy, to see if you can do something extra on top of the measures that are being taken for the low and middle incomes? Once again, you will get right into the question of technology and coverage. We just need to be very real about that. I can't make any promises about that right now. It's not something we can tap today either. It may be possible for the summer, but in most cases it will go towards August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u97	This energy allowance for single or single parents is up to 120% of the social minimum. It doesn't go up to 120% of the statutory minimum wage, because this person would have gotten it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u98	I agree. Sorry, I meant 120% of the social minimum. Excuse me. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u99	So that's 84% of the minimum wage. Someone who earns the minimum wage and doesn't have a euro anymore and sometimes even has to work an overtime in that cleaning sector, often irregularly, doesn't get that €800. That's why I said, don't you want to expand something, because the category is cut off really hard? So this person gets €20. The things that have been lowered, I've already put in. Inflation is about 1.5% lower than it would be without the measures of the cabinet. The lower VAT and the slightly lower energy taxes lead to a slightly lower inflation rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u100	They're having an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yeah, from about 10% to about 8.5%. But if you have 8.5% inflation and your minimum wage goes up by 2%, you're going down 6%. We haven't had that in this country in 80 years. And for this group, therefore, we have 6% purchasing power deficit with all the measures that have been taken. Then we come in the category "cancel all subscriptions, don't go out anymore, don't make it to the end of the month." What perspective does the cabinet offer to this group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u102	There are a few elements. First of all, you can't guarantee that you can take it all away. We just have to be honest about that. Two. In addition, we are looking not only at this year's package, but also at what we did last year. That certainly has an effect for a wider group. Three. The reduction in excise duties and VAT on energy............................................................................................................................................................................... That's not gonna close the hole. Agreed. That is why we have said: we must look again at the purchasing power picture in August at how inflation is developing, including for this group. GroenLinks, PvdA and other parties ask to do something with the plan of that €500. In that mix, that person's pretty much there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u103	Okay, I made the proposal myself: make a second disc of €400 and that supplement. I'm fine with doing that through the care allowance. That's executable. Let's listen carefully to the Secretary of State on this point. What we see here in the Netherlands is an unintentional transition due to high rents, the not available of affordable rentals and a minimum wage that has recently risen less than prices and significantly less than prices. Just making things right now. We see a group of working poor who even if they work for 40 hours, we couldn't have lived through this problem with people with call contracts. I hear the Prime Minister say here that he has this group in his head at the next round of compensation. I understand that well enough to see how we can save these people from having to choose between eating, giving their children decent breakfast to school, the school trip, and turning on the heating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u104	I'm sticking to my wording anyway. Maybe it's very similar to what Pieter Ommzigt says here. I cannot fully assess whether exactly his wording is desired by me. I think it is important to look over the next few weeks and months, also towards August, at what all the measures we are taking now are doing for the incomes of the people who are the weakest, and that is our first priority, as well as for the middle groups. What Ommzigt actually says, and he's absolutely right about that, is that there's a group that, when you're talking about the classic lowest incomes and the middle groups, is in a transitional area and at some point is outside certain regulations, as we now had with that €800, because it was limited to a minimum social limit, and it can't use certain other things either. I think it is real that you are looking at this and also at the further development of inflation. As a cabinet, we have already said that we are going to look at this in August. What part of the Chamber is now saying is that we have concrete ideas and we want to see if they can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u105	Did I now hear correctly that the Prime Minister said in a subtlety about the supplementary proposals: today we are no longer taking decisions, and it is likely that it will even be August? Was that a slip of the tongue or did I hear you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u106	What I said was that we are not taking decisions today and that we need to see what should happen before the summer and what should happen in August. I disagree with Mr Wilders' first-term argument that urgent measures must now be taken in the shortest possible time. I disagree with that. Not because I am shocked by the examples, but because I do not think he is sufficiently aware that the measures we have taken, including the €800 compensation for the lowest incomes, the increase in energy taxes, the increase in the minimum wage that is to come, and all the measures in the March and November package, must be partially noticed in this group. That's probably not gonna be enough. We have just discussed this in detail and it is a bit of a repetition of when we started after the break. That is why it must be taken away. It is not the case that it must be done tomorrow, as he says, because, for example, the €800 is going to have an effect right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u107	Then what the hell are we doing here? That is what I am saying to Mr Klaver, who may have already given up his vote for the Spring Note. What the hell are we doing here? We have a cabinet that really doesn't want to do anything more before 2022. Then there are a few parties in the opposition who say something. We say 10 billion, and you say no to that for the time being. Then there are two parties, the Labour Party and GroenLinks, who say with a lot of bombs: we have to do something now, we have to do something now. I assume that will give them their support to the Cabinet for the Spring Note. And then you just say, you know what, we might not do it now, but in August. Then it's either 2023 or the second half of the year before something happens. People need something right now. Whether it's their $500 or our amendment, people need money now. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to come to his senses and decide now, otherwise we'll be doing something for nothing all day long. I would ask colleagues from the Labour Party and GroenLinks, if you will allow me, if they go along with this story of the Spring Note. Maybe you'll give up your vote now, while the Prime Minister won't be back until August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u108	First of all, I am not aware of this and if so, Klaver, Keiken and others must correct me that there would have been agreements made with parties in the Chamber in the sphere of GroenLinks and the Labour Party in the sense of "Oh, I say this and then you say it and then we have a deal." Those appointments aren't there. We are sitting here in public talking, unless there have been conversations that I am not aware of, but I do not think there have been any agreements. We have a very real debate here. What the hell's going on? Wilders says that this is so urgent that it must be decided today and entered tomorrow. Apart from the fact that it will not be possible to go into technical tomorrow, I do not think that is necessary either, because many measures, including in European comparison, are in a very broad package, the 6 billion package, and they are now beginning to have effect. Which doesn't mean you have to see what else is needed for the lowest and middle incomes. That is a real debate. There are proposals and they need to be further developed. The Minister of Finance will look into what is the best timing for this. I must warn you that she will not be able to say much more, because part of the technique has to be worked out. I think that's a real story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mr Klaver, GroenLinks, and then Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u110	I actually had an order proposal, although the words of Mr Wilders almost make you want to say: we like everything the cabinet does. The Prime Minister says that we still have a lot of questions to look into in the coming weeks. Of course, that should have happened recently. In order to be able to conduct this debate properly with each other, my suggestion would be: let us suspend this debate now, find out what needs to be figured out and what questions are still open. Then we resume the debate. I want to be very clear with the Prime Minister. We've made our terms on the Spring Note. That means that before the vote on the spring note.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't feel comfortable debating with each other all night and then hearing: we're gonna find out a lot more. I want to have the substantive debate. If everything has to be sorted out by the cabinet, I actually think that should have happened sooner. But if that has not yet happened, we will continue the debate at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u111	Let me see if there is any support from colleagues for this proposal of order. First of all, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u112	I think that is wise, because I feel on all sides that the cabinet says: we have to do something, we find it complicated in technology and we want to find out exactly what it is. That is why I am happy to support Mr Wilders' proposal, as specified by Mr Klaver. I see that we need to do something for the people of the country now, and that can only be done if we know exactly what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr Azarkan, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mr President, I agree with that, but I would also like to give the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Taxation the opportunity to answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u115	I also support the order proposal. I feel that need less, because we were assuming that with the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u116	Slightly softer in the room. Your colleagues are responding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u117	... could discuss the content of the proposals. The Prime Minister is now saying: you can talk, but we are not going to decide today. That is exactly the point of the discussion. We all agree that there needs to be some extras, but we say that we need to do so as soon as possible, and we need to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u119	In fact, it seems rather pointless to continue with a debate whose outcome is already clear, namely that nothing is going to happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u120	Mr. Chairman. I didn't think I'd ever say it, but I think it's a great proposal from GroenLinks. I also agree with Mr Azarkan's supplementary proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u121	I'd rather go on today. If we don't make it today, we won't make it tomorrow. I want to continue today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Klaver's proposal. We are somewhat early in the process with this debate. If we can have concrete proposals in a week's time for the groups that colleagues and I have referred to, we can have a good debate on this. If people with minimum wage don't have compensation yet, we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u123	I also think it is a good proposal, including what Mr Azarkan proposed. I would like to have an answer to the question about the future of the cabinet. It can just be answered. I agree with Mr Klaver's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Klaver's proposal and Mr Azarkan's supplementary proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Chairman. So you can see where a subtlety of the Prime Minister can lead. I support the order proposal, but I would like to have the same exercise not only on the PvdA and GroenLinks proposals, but also on our six amendments. All the proposals made by the House through amendments must be responded to in order to secure our proposals as well. With that amendment, I support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u126	I support Mr Klaver's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u127	I also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u128	Mr Segers, or Mr Heerma. Mr Heerma, CDA. But I also see Mrs Hermans going to the interrupting microphone very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mr. Chairman. We're just thinking. In order to respond to the questions raised by some colleagues from the opposition, but also because of the fact that there are still a number of outstanding questions that are not about the proposals and which the cabinet says it has to figure out, I am going to make a proposal. Let me see if I can do it this way at all. We will now proceed with the first term of office, with all the questions that have been asked further by members of the Chamber in our first term. Then we'll take stock of any questions that are still open. We are not closing the first term of the cabinet, but we are continuing to do so at that time, so that those questions can be answered. So we are not completing the first deadline, but the questions that have yet to be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mr President, I am also looking at you questioning. If this is possible, then I think this is a good compromise between the request made and the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u131	I understand that Mr Azarkan made the same proposal: suspend and resume at a later date. But then all the questions that can be answered will have to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u132	I agree with that, because there have really been very different questions. So this is a very specific point. I understand Mr Klaver's reaction, but I think that the questions that have been asked in the width of the Chamber should also be addressed. So first finish the period on the cabinet side, then inventory and then maybe suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u133	When I look at it that way, I think there is support for at least not to conclude this debate now. There is, however, support for continuing with the first term of office to answer the questions that remain. Let's take a look at the questions we have left. Then we're going to decide a new moment with each other to continue this. I'll take a look at Mr. Klaver. Have I summarised the responses to your proposal correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u134	I think so. Let me put it explicitly. We're not finishing the first term of the cabinet. We're picking up the deadline as soon as the Cabinet has the answers. That's good. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u135	Mr President, once again, it is your job to formulate what the cabinet should do and not just what the Chamber wants. The cabinet has promised me that I would be grateful if you would also specify that it will be possible to find out what is being decided on with regard to the proposals made by colleagues. This applies to all proposals...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u136	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u137	... of all political groups. It is important, however, that this be established. We will then have a reaction not only to the proposals of GroenLinks and the Labour Party, but also to the proposals of the PVV and of all the other groups that have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u138	Sure, you're absolutely right. I think it has also been said that at the end we are going to take stock of which questions are still open, but of course it is all the proposals, which need to be dealt with. I think it is right that I should now give the floor to the Prime Minister to conclude his speech. Then we'll see if there's any real questions left. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u139	I think that's really important. I am glad that this is happening, because of course it is not the case that some questions are being asked... Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u140	I would like to ask Members to take their seats again, because the cabinet is still supposed to answer the questions. Colleagues, Mr. Azarkan, Mr. Klaver, Mr. Segers, Mr. Eerdmans, would you all please take your place again? The Prime Minister will then answer the questions that remain. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u141	Again, that was actually a bit of our plan, so that's fine. I would like to say something in general, after which the Minister for Finance will go into some of the proposals that have been made. Then she checks with the Chamber whether the exact question is sharp. Of course this goes along the lines of technique, coverage and timing. Soon it will turn out that this isn't all before the summer, but we'll see how far we can get. I think that's a good approach. Then I have not been asked so many other questions, except a little bit about the area of nitrogen and recycled agriculture. I wonder whether we should discuss this in detail in this debate, because there will of course be a whole debate on nitrogen next week. I can also pass on the section of the short-term report with these questions to the Ministers for Agriculture, Climate and Nitrogen. If that's okay with the questioners, maybe it's for the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u142	Does this mean that there's a written...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u143	No, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u144	It will be part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u145	They'll just include those questions in the debate next week, otherwise we'll keep sending letters. I just see it coming that we are going to have a whole nitrogen debate here. I do not know whether that makes sense in the debate on the Spring paper. Anyway, it's just a suggestion. At least there is one more question that I think needs to be answered. Mrs van der Plas asked how I see the future of this cabinet. For every cabinet it is there until it is no longer there, but the expectations are positive. The cooperation in the cabinet and with the coalition groups is good. There are also many good dialogues with the opposition. So I'm hopeful about it. As a country, we face very important issues in the areas of nitrogen, climate, education and security. I think it's exciting to try to shape these big changes with each other in the coming time. In any case, there are twenty-nine of us who are very motivated to do so. I am not concerned about stability. In fact, in recent months we have reached far-reaching decisions in many areas, with sometimes fierce discussions, but always in a good atmosphere. That gives me confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u146	That, I believe, is what brought you to the end of your contribution. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you for the answers. I just wanted to come back to the nitrogen response. This is, of course, about the money. The nitrogen debate is about the content of the plans. I do not want the Ministers in the nitrogen debate to say 'that is about money and that is not what we are about' or 'no answers can be given'. And they say you just had the debate on the spring note. I want to make sure that the questions that are being asked here and which are really about the money are answered there, and that they are passed on one-on-one. That is where the content of the plans can be discussed, and the question whether nitrogen reduction is necessary. In terms of amounts, finances, the nitrogen fund and how much money is being spent...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u148	That's all gonna be answered there. That's all gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u149	The Prime Minister states that your questions will be answered in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u150	Yes. At least, the questions that are being asked there. I'm not gonna go through anything right now. I didn't write down a question that's very specific about money and nitrogen. Next week, the Ministers for Agriculture and Nitrogen will have the full authority to debate with the Chamber, within the terms of the coalition agreement, the financial aspects as well. That is not the case with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mrs van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u152	Okay, I'll rely on that. I'm not always suspicious of the Prime Minister, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u153	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u154	I've always trusted things. This is what I'm relying on. I am concerned that they should not refer back to the Spring Note. That's kind of my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u155	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u156	The questions need to be answered there. That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u157	Unless there's a very extreme question I can't foresee, but I don't expect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u158	I asked one question about nitrogen. That question can also be answered by letter. That's the next one. We have seen in the coal-fired power stations that people have invested in CO rights and that they are now getting 1.6 billion for the 65% shutdown of three coal-fired power stations for one year. In the case of nitrogen, there's a threat of the same thing. Would the cabinet urgently like to see if nitrogen rights are not simply transferable to venture investors, who then sit on them and make the Dutch government pay billions to meet certain goals, so that the funds are empty at once? Does the government want to come up with a plan for that? I would have preferred that for the nitrogen debate so that we could include it. I don't need to explain that plan here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u159	I propose that this question be asked next week. This is all part of the nitrogen debate. This also applies to the question raised by Mr Omtzigt in a dialogue with Paternotte, on the limitation of production of coal plants and on what is spent on loss compensation. On this point, I can promise that the Minister for Climate and Energy will come forward with a letter for the summer on the reduction of production and the loss compensation. It's already provided. Specifically about nitrogen, I would really speak in the debate next week. This is part of the discussion, as is, for example, the question of how to prevent the 25 billion from going up in smoke. That is what Mr Omtzigt is afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u160	Yeah, but before we start that discussion, I'd like to see that government plan. It would be nice if the Ministers of Nitrogen and Agriculture would write to the Chamber before then how they wish to prevent this. Otherwise we will get those answers in the debate. We'll get stuck. This is one of the greatest financial risks we face. This is part of the biggest expenditure. Since this is an important financial risk, I am asking this question here in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u161	Yeah, but this is getting really bad with the hair. I'll ask for official advice. There is no second deadline, but at the end of this round I will be able to come up with a short answer to that point after the Secretary of State for Finance. I would think this is part of next week's debate on nitrogen. This has nothing to do with the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u162	I'm gonna appeal to you, too, Mr. Ommzigt. In any case, the question will be passed on so that you will at least receive an answer to this question in the debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u163	I will also ask the officials to pass this question on specifically and to make sure that they are trying to prepare themselves for it in advance. That does not apply to the other questions on nitrogen. They'll all be back next week. Let's make a deal. Maybe that's a compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u164	It's possible. As far as I am concerned, it is also fine if that letter is there a day before the nitrogen debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u165	No, no letters. They take a lot of time. The people are also civil servants up to here. Let's not do that. There's a debate. I don't want any letters. It takes so much time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u166	The Prime Minister has said that he will come back to this, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u167	Just a little while longer. I had also asked the Prime Minister a question about the Groningen gas field. I understand that he can also pass on that question, but I have asked him a number of times to look at it technically. Maybe that can be passed on. I don't want to talk for 15 minutes about the Groninger gas field. I've read more than the Watch by now, so I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u168	Madam Finance Minister warned me not to bring up the Watch anymore, and now you are bringing it up yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u169	If that can be guided, or if at least a commitment can be made that can be looked at again by engineers to see if it can be safely produced, then that would be a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u170	Now it's gonna be a bit of an arrangement, through me. This really seems to me to be something to bring forward in a debate on Groningen. They are very regular with the Secretary of State for Mining. There are a lot of debates, I know of him; I thought again this week. That can then be discussed there to begin with. So I'm not going to pass that on right now. I'm gonna be some kind of mailbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u172	"This is the Secretary of State for Mining." Sounds like you're sitting at the table with a mining man. But you're just sitting at the table with an economist. He really doesn't know anything about the technical background of the Groningen gas field. The Prime Minister himself is a historian, so perhaps we can talk to him about the history of the Groningen gas field, but not whether we can produce safely and responsibly there. I'm sure this can be done. There is still EUR 1,000 billion in the ground; 450 billion cubic metres of gas. So let's just take another technical look at that. All signals are green, only the cabinet is red.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u173	The Prime Minister has indicated that there are other debates in which this question can be asked. I give the floor to Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u174	I have also made a point of the fact that, when we talk about purchasing power, all kinds of measures have been taken, but that a lot of young people and students who live independently no longer live at home find that this €800 was not meant for them. In addition, interest rates go up, which, of course, also has an effect on student interest rates. My question is whether the Prime Minister is aware of this and whether he sees that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u175	I didn't prepare for that part of the answer. I don't know if the Minister of Finance can say anything about the students. That they are not always in the range of the €800 is, of course, true. Let us see if we can come back to that today, or else, if we still have another opportunity, on another occasion. Of course, specific questions have also been asked about other sectors. I don't have that ready right now. If Mr Paternotte looks at me with that look, he has usually thought very carefully about it, so it will be true, but I cannot confirm it myself now. I see that Mr Van Weyenberg agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u176	Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I think it is right that we should now give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to answer a number of questions. And then the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u177	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament for their criticism and for the remarks made by many that a great deal has already been done, but that it is indeed the question of whether this is sufficient and whether it will be sustainable in the long term for many people who are not already out of work, but who are threatening to do so. That, I think, is an issue that concerns all of us. I will answer a number of specific questions in a moment. I would also like to give a brief explanation or comment on some of the suggestions that have been made, but do not yet give a definitive assessment, in the light of the openness that we, as a cabinet, are looking at them. From Finance, I would also like to use this moment to outline what the perspective ultimately is. The Spring Note not only provides a look-through for this year, but is also an introduction for 2023, so that we have early time to discuss with each other what the priorities are and how they will be financed. However, we are still in a crisis, hopefully a short-term crisis, with an increasing threat of a possible recession. The purchasing power has indeed been significantly affected. It's like that everywhere. We see in Europe that most governments have had the same limited scope for action. There wasn't that much in one running financial year that you could just do. That's not how the systems are designed. But the urgency is there. At the same time, the Spring Paper also talks about the ambitions to continue investing in the long term. As Minister of Finance, I also ask for your support to always think about debt sustainability and an orderly fiscal policy. That is not something only the General Court of Auditors or the Council of State think; that is what we consider as a cabinet. In this triangle of sometimes conflicting interests, of course, we have also looked at the ambitions we finance, their coverage and the way in which we can actually act, in view of the most vulnerable. I would actually like to list which measures may still be optional or may be possible for 2022. That is not exhaustive and I do not immediately say whether it is a 'yes' or a 'no', because, again, coverage, execution and a technical test are extremely important. The first possible measure is the extension of the municipal scheme for the provision of an energy surcharge. The comment, which has already been made by a number of people, is that there is criticism of the hard income limit of 120%. I shall come back to Mr Wilders' comment on this. A second possible measure is a one-off payment to all recipients of rent or care allowance. This is technically difficult for a number of reasons. I'm not saying no, I'm just saying where the choice may be in the next few weeks. A care allowance reaches more people, but is incredibly difficult. We know from the CPB that 70% of the people who might get into trouble are renting. It may therefore be more targeted to opt for the rental payment channel or the payment of, for example, the €500. That's how it's being thought out right now. Another option is to pay a fixed amount via another exporter, for example the SVB. Then we avoid all possible problems that people are just a little above a limit, that they should be recovered and then suddenly a kind of mini-extra charge situation arises. None of us do. Plus when the money is paid out, I think we should almost look at it as the TVL at the time: it was paid out, it's exceptionally difficult times for many people and then we shouldn't make a difference to €1 or €2 if they happen to fall above or below it. It can't be. A fourth possible measure is to increase the budget of the special assistance. This can of course be granted to households with income from work, depending on the assessment by the municipality. It is true that we have already heard from municipalities that this is quite difficult. It has proved to be very complex in terms of implementation and allocation. That may not be a reason, but we must take it into consideration. Then there are even smaller pots, so to speak, such as increasing the budget for targeted poverty policies. The Minister for Poverty Policy and Labour Participation will present an action plan on the prevention of money worries, poverty and debt before the summer. For many people who were already in trouble before this crisis, there are other ways. They must also be used to help them. The latter is also an important one: targeted measures with energy suppliers. The Minister for Climate and Energy and the Minister for Poverty Policy and Labour Participation are talking to energy suppliers, for example about deferment of payment, other arrangements, a push on the button. I can't anticipate those conversations. We therefore appeal to the social responsibility that energy suppliers also feel. I would like to name this in the framework of possible measures for 2022. I say again and again: feasibility, the test, but also coverage. Because we also need to see how we set up the future with each other. But none of us ignores the human suffering or the fear that many people experience. Possible measures for 2023 are, of course, an increase in rent or care allowance. That's what August is for. And...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u178	If you finish your sentence, I will give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u179	I have two other options. The first is fiscal measures. In addition, of course, we will soon receive the ibo of Laura of Spirit. There has been much talk here about possible coverage options or a more structural approach to the situation in which people are in, such as an increase in the statutory minimum wage, a reduction in labour costs............................................................................................................................................................................. But that also calls for a weighting, as the Prime Minister has explained in detail. It must take place within the cabinet, where we look at the flow of the data that is being worked on. In addition, it is easy to talk about burdens, but we also want to keep business and the economy running. Because the CPB has rightly said that structural measures will benefit most people when it comes to structural purchasing power. Economists rightly say that we should not go from ad hoc to ad hoc. That is why I began my speech by mentioning coverage and an orderly budgetary policy. Many of the discussions can be concluded in August, if 2022 is still the case. Well, we've made a promise here, haven't we? That is why I deliberately mention the possible measures. I'll be right back on a few details. Of course, I will come back to all that can happen before 2023: the 2.4 billion from the coalition agreement and other opportunities that both the Secretary of State and I are looking at. But that also requires real political weighting in the balance sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u180	The Minister won't stop. I do not know what you are doing now, but you say 'possible measures for 2022' and you do not mention our measures. I don't want you to say, if you come up with an answer or an effect in a few weeks' time, "Well, yours weren't there. Didn't I just say that?" So now you're saying what you're saying. But the agreement we have just made is that you will then accept all the proposals made by the Chamber and that you will not say now: 'These are the possibilities'. 'Cause then the conversation in a couple of weeks won't make any sense. You'd take them all seriously. You can take them. You can reject them. But you'll have to look at them all in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u181	That's what we just agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u182	Yeah, well, I don't necessarily have to repeat what was just agreed. That's the deal. I think it's obvious. I just wanted to name from my perspective what we had already prepared ourselves as insight. This has been added from the debate. By the way, there is also something in my text about the subject of surcharges, as proposed by Mr Klaver and Mrs Kuik, and the extension of, among other things, the energy allowance, as proposed by Mr Wilders. And I'll mention his other proposals. I hadn't gotten to it yet. Anyway, I'll be shorter. Then I'll say less. I'm afraid I'm running the risk of skipping something. But the intention is completeness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you. I'll take a look at the colleagues. Can the Minister continue with her story or do you want to interrupt on this already, Mr. Dassen? A lot of questions have been asked, so I also think that the Minister should take the opportunity to answer a number of questions. Otherwise, you may now repeat your own input. No, you're not gonna do that, Mr. Dassen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u184	No, it's just a brief clarifying question, because I hear the Minister making this whole list. I was wondering whether those possibilities included the question I had asked about looking at doubling the care allowance as an inflation payment. In order to set this up, urgent legislation could be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u185	I think I answered generically. If we mention the care allowance or the rent allowance, it depends on how we could implement it. That's one of the options. We'll take all the suggestions. I'd like to do expectation management. I'll also come back to shelf life, cover and balance. We'll take all the options, including Mr. Dassen's. But that's what's called "care and/or rent allowance."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u186	I'd like to ask the Minister to move on and then we'll take a look. Is it on this particular subject, Mrs. Kicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u187	Minister Kaag has now made it sufficiently clear that it is about cover and careful. That's the cover we provide. It's a good thing there's an opening now for what we can do. We hadn't heard that so far. I'm hearing a handshake. At the same time, I would like to avoid the political gravel trap of moving forward. That's what I told the Prime Minister. So I'd like to be clear before the summer. We're talking about the Spring Note now. We're going to vote on that before the summer. That's what I'm looking for right now, because otherwise it's August, it's autumn or it's nothing. That's what I'm looking for right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u188	I understand that very well. I'd like that myself. We have to weigh it in its entirety, so I do not know whether we can put down a clear package on all the proposals before the summer. I refer to the question of cover and, for example, the burden of raising charges or shifting charges. The Secretary of State will be presenting his tax plan in August. Between now, mid-June and August we have two months recess. I think we should make a commitment that by August it should be all about what can be done, with cover and measures, including possible burden increase or shift. I can't promise now that within two weeks everything will be calculated and calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u189	We have just agreed that we will continue the debate and that the cabinet will find out what is possible and respond to all the proposals. Let us not repeat that now, because that is what we have just agreed to. We have just expressed the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u190	Yeah, but we're gonna have another effect. I'm just saying that I want us to do something now for the people who are in trouble and for the people who can't make ends meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u191	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u192	No, Mr. Chairman, just a minute. We called this already in the autumn, we called it in the spring and we did it by the coffee. So I've tried to talk to each other three times in a way. I now have the instrument of the debate and the motions. For me, it is clear: before the summer, we simply need to be clear, otherwise it is just uncertainty, not for us, but for the people who are affected and who are in difficulty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u193	I just want to try to make one thing clear about the arrangements we make. The cabinet has made the plans and we are discussing them now. There is an orderly coverage that can also consist of raising the funding gap. There's gonna be plans from the whole room. I assume, just to confirm, that it is a legitimate fact that you can also finance them out of possibly increasing the budget deficit. Is that right? If it is not true, then the cabinet should withdraw these plans itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u194	We've made choices. I understand that Mr Van Raan is making this comparison, but I think we have reached the limits of our budgetary policy. I have said this before, on the starting note and at other times. This year we are not acting in accordance with EU budgetary rules either. The escape clause is still in force this year, but we really want to go back to debt disposal. There are other ways to take cover. I think there is also a responsibility in the Chamber to help the cabinet to complete this as best it can. There are many other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u195	Mr Van Raan, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u196	Trying to help the cabinet? We may all try to do that, but of course that also depends on your role and other choices you make. Let me put it this way. Is it true that if there are plans coming out of this Chamber that seek cover in raising the funding gap, whatever the cabinet has done, then the argument of the cabinet cannot be: that is not good coverage, because that leads to a shortage of funding? I think the Minister agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u197	Yeah, like I said, theoretically. But I do not think we should have this debate right now. It is quite clear that we said in the Spring Paper that we have looked at the limits of what is possible. We've made choices. I understand very well what Mr Van Raan is doing from his position, but I think there are other possibilities. We come just in the summer with the ibo of Laura of Spirit about power inequality. Suggestions have been made in the Spring paper on shifting the burden on labour to capital charges. There are other cover options.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u198	It is precisely on this point that an enlightening question is being asked on our part. I hear the Minister say that in the summer there will indeed be yet another study on property inequality. Here, a proposal from the SP has been adopted to reduce power inequality. The Chamber has said that the cabinet must come forward with proposals for this before the summer. I really want to hold on to that, because otherwise I know exactly. We can continue this debate in a few weeks' time, but tackling the lack of capacity is one of the most important coverage we have. Then we can now focus that on people. I'd like that guarantee. Otherwise we will be back here in a few weeks, but it is said that you have a cover for a proposal, but we cannot; we are still investigating that. There are already a lot of studies on the inequality of power and how it can be tackled. We've talked a lot about it here. If we continue the debate in a few weeks' time, I really want it to be there and not to be said: we are going to look at that again this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u199	I understand that very well, but I do not know the exact date on which Mrs Laura of Spirit completed her study. You can remember the debate on the declaration of government, I believe. Then I think Mr Klaver came up with a package of previous studies. That's what you're referring to. At least I have the picture in front of me. We said at the time that we really want to wait for this study. That is not because we are not convinced that there are enough data, recently also the CBS study, I believe. But this is the process we have been working on. I would like to confirm as soon as possible when it comes, how it comes, perhaps in parts, what we can deliver and what is orderly. I am also looking at the Secretary of State, because it is mainly about a possible tax plan. You don't need half a job either. In August comes the new Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u200	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u201	Once again, I would very much like to prevent us from standing here in a few weeks' time. We don't. We have said that there are enough investigations. Once again, there is an approved motion from the House of Representatives that the cabinet should come forward with these proposals before the summer. So I guess they just need to get there. That's what the Chamber said. I just want to prevent us from having this debate again in a few weeks' time and then not being able to use that cover, because it is said again: we are waiting for yet another report on how to reduce power inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u202	I think the Minister has just responded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u203	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u204	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u205	A number of questions have been asked about purchasing power. Many of them will be explained, commented or weighted by the Cabinet. We will work on this as soon as possible. Mrs Hermans, Mr Paternotte and Mr Stoffer asked what we could do to reach the middle groups specifically and what is possible. The question you're asking, we're taking it with us. What's as focused as possible? That's what I'm asking to avoid future criticism. How can we decorate it as well as possible? For 2023, focus will certainly be a great option. As you know from previous debates, a great deal has already been boarded up before 2022. So we're looking at other measures that I just mentioned. Mr Klaver and Mrs Kuik asked about the possibility of increasing the healthcare allowance. I just answered that question. We will come back to that in detail, also with a comparison, which may be better. Then we'll hear your vision, too. This also comes back to the proposal for a one-off payment of €500. I won't bore you with the technique and the risks. I just took an advance on that. We really want to see how things can be different, also bearing in mind the guarantees of the GDPR et cetera et cetera. We are already very deeply in the implementation, but we have heard the question of principle very well. We have also been asked why we do not freeze rentals for properties with bad labels. The freezing of rent before 1 July 2022 was not feasible. That should have been decided by April. Mr Klaver is probably right to say that you should have done so in March. We discussed this extensively and, I believe, we also exchanged it in writing on behalf of the cabinet at the end of March. With Minister De Jonge we can explore how to distinguish on the basis of the energy label. In this way, you also promote sustainability. Noting a bad energy label as a lack, which means that the rental price cannot be raised, also means that the landlords have less investment space, but of course they have to use it. That is the second point. Minister De Jonge is investigating whether the housing valuation system can be adapted in such a way that a less high rent can be requested for unpreserved properties. But that's not an answer for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u206	This isn't an extensive interruption. I have seen that Mr De Jonge wants to do something about that, but that is about 2030, so I think we should leave that out of consideration. I'd like to come back to one more question. You said it couldn't happen again on July 1st. I'm going to say, "I told you so." But I would like to ask whether the cabinet would like to see what the possibilities are if you let it enter on 1 August or 1 September. Can we do it with retroactive effect? This concerns a rather limited sector, social housing. What can possibly be done there, including in consultation with the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u207	That's what we need to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u208	In this context, I would also like to draw attention to a point I made last time. Perhaps, in conjunction with Secretary of State Marnix van Rij, you could think about that. People who were lucky enough to have a property in 2012 paid €600 to €700 a month less in the last ten years, because the interest rate has been printed down. That's because we bought EUR 5,000 billion in loans. We've been pumping money into the economy. So you're lucky if you had a home at the time, but that also means that you make a €700 per month less cost for your home compared to people who had a social rental house at the time. They paid €500 for that then, but are now up to €700. I'd like a reaction to that. Will that be taken into account? Is it fair how this comes down to the costs that people make for their homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u209	That is a very legitimate question, but frankly I need to get a little more into the whole housing file. We are going to have that debate, but I would like to involve the whole range of information. I would ask Mr Azarkan to allow me to do so. A few questions have been asked by Mr Wilders. I will repeat, just to be sure, that we are all going to answer them. The sin of commission is not the sin of omission, as they say so beautifully in English. All your questions will be answered. Perhaps not at will, as I think they say south of the rivers, but then we can discuss it. At least that's how they're taken. The direction is clear. Mrs Kuik also asked for a rent freeze for social housing and a rent reduction for poorly isolated housing. We have just exchanged a few moments about that, regardless of the degree of difficulty. Mrs Kuik also asked for a further increase in the minimum wage in 2023, covering the solidarity levy. So that brings together burdens, levies and different ideas. That is why it is quite difficult to say yes to everything at once, without knowing whether we have a solidarity levy... Or a... what's it called again? Windfall. God, we've called it so many times. Sorry, excuse me. The windfall tax: we are already working on whether that is wise, fortunately even before you asked the question. What are the results and their unintended effects and do they cause more harm than benefits? That's incredibly important. I also refer to Mrs Hermans of the VVD and to other parties: activity, a level playing field for activity, the future of jobs and the preservation of jobs in the Netherlands. But we take this as a whole. The coal-fired question has been answered. Mr Omtzig asked for an increase in the energy allowance and its financing. That's what he's been debating with the Prime Minister. Mrs Marijnissen proposes that the costs for people should be reduced. There was again the question about the tax on profits. We have just said that we are taking that with us, but it is good to recall that the previous cabinet has raised the rate of the Vpb to 25.8% by 2022. We also lowered the disc limit to €200,000. So we also ask for an additional contribution from companies that make profits before 2022 and 2023. Adjustments in the Vpb for 2022 I look at the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs are no longer possible, but in August of course we look again at the whole picture and the problem of distribution. Mr Stoffer asked where the bill for the AOW measures would be and how the stacking and proposals for the different groups would work out. I think the Prime Minister has already answered this question. Mr Stoffer is not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u210	Mr Stoffer is here, but he is talking to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u211	I believe that the Prime Minister had already answered your question about the accumulation of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u212	And good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u213	Yes, excellent. So I would only compromise on that. We're not gonna risk saying anything else. That is not possible in cabinet policy. Then I go on to the subject of energy and climate, questions that have been asked about it. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Van Raan asked how the normalization of households relates to subsidising companies in the energy transition. I think the Prime Minister has already answered that question. We do and-and: we want to enable companies to make the necessary investments in greening, but we have also strengthened sustainability requirements for companies, such as the CO levy and the energy saving obligation. For households, of course, we have looked at a subsidy element, a normative and priced policy. We want, of course, as a party other than mine calls it and in quotes, it remains "feasible and affordable." So, of course, we are also looking at incentives for home insulation and heat pumps. So these are all elements, but I understand it quite well. We have, of course, also looked in the negotiations at how much subsidy there should be and what'standardization and pricing' is. You also know that, in my opinion, we in the formation have come up with good compromises in order to live up to the great ambitions. Mrs Marijnissen is asking to come up with a national isolation plan. That is already there, but I do not know whether Mrs Marijnissen is asking for a new plan or an adaptation of Minister De Jonge's National Isolation Programme, which was presented in April.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u214	Incitement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u215	No, I just want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u216	The latter, because it is too limited and too slow as far as we are concerned. The contradiction I indicated was that people are addressed by this cabinet as individuals with: take a loan for a heat pump yourself. We say: no, that climate policy is such a big challenge that goes through generations that you should organise it much more collectively, so collectively, in such a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u217	I can't answer that one-two-three because I was actually happy when I read that plan is there. I also hear Mr Klaver say that we have 2.5 million homes until 2030, with the emphasis of course on the 1.5 million worst isolated homes with the E, F or G labels. I will ask Mr De Jonge if there are any options to speed this up, but I have to discuss that with him. Mr Van Raan and Mr Dassen wondered whether the objectives of the coalition agreement with the reduction in the funds would not be compromised. That is absolutely not the intention. There is also a deliberate text in the Spring Paper on standardisation, and I think there is, of course, also a choice in the debate to see how we are going to achieve the goals. But that's standing up like a pole. I also believe that the group chairmen have confirmed at their own moments the importance of achieving both climate and nitrogen objectives. Mr Van Raan asks if I can guarantee that the funds in the climate fund will be reviewed so that they have a positive climate effect. Absolutely, the funds simply need to be well spent and will also be tested, including efficiency. You have also adopted motions for resolutions on this matter. The institution law of the fund will show how it is worked out in detail. It will be sent to your room in the fall. Mr Van Raan asked whether the CO levy for industry would be extended to cover all CO emissions and equivalents. The coalition agreement has agreed to tighten the CO levy, so that industry reduces greenhouse gas emissions by 4 megatons extra. This levy already applies to all types of greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. not only to CO but also to other greenhouse gases. In addition, greenhouse gas emissions are also priced with other taxes, so that energy taxes and car taxes are included. We do not intend to extend the CO levy to other sectors. We do support the negotiations or proposals at European level to extend the European emissions trading system to the built environment and transport. That seems to me to be more effective if it is certainly regulated within Europe. Mr Eerdmans asks for the 2015 Nature Protection Act to be corrected and asks for a repair law. The Nature Protection Act protects vulnerable natural areas, plants and animal species. We must also ensure that we achieve the natural goals. You'll get a letter about this next week. Mr Eerdmans is asking for investment in nuclear energy. The coalition agreement is clear on that. The Minister of EZK has promised you a letter on the steps being taken to draw up the plans for the realisation of nuclear energy. I think you'll be able to have a nice debate with that minister. Then I'll go to the other category. Mrs Hermans asks for more work to be made more rewarding, but the word'more' is in my text between quotes. We would like to encourage people to go to work and stay at work or return to the labour market. I think there are some great plans in the coalition agreement. Examples are, of course, the 95% reimbursement of childcare and the reduction of the poverty trap, however difficult that may prove to be, and the by-earning limits in the Participation Act. A motion by Mr De Jong, of the PVV, was adopted in the debate on labour market policy. We are, of course, going to look at it, I say to Mr Wilders, to remove income barriers to work for more hours and to make work pay. It's gonna be in August. This is, I think, a confirmation of a commitment. Mr Paternotte asked whether we could make haste with the reforms of the childcare allowance to ensure that people could work more hours. I must say that I do not know whether you were also shocked by the example of childcare in Amersfoort, which could offer fewer places, precisely because of the labour market shortage. We must therefore be able to make progress on all fronts. The reform of the childcare allowance is extremely important. It allows people to work more hours. Speed in the review is therefore very important. The Minister of SZW will periodically inform you about the progress. I don't have a specific timetable for her right now, but I'll ask her to keep you posted. Mr Stoffer asked whether the cabinet was prepared to increase the child-related budget for families rather than the revision of the childcare allowance. In August, of course, we will look at the purchasing power picture for all groups, including families, and low and middle incomes, on the basis of the new CPB estimates. Then we will look at what measures are appropriate. The SGP's proposal, but I think that earlier I exchanged it with Mr Stoffer would lead to a reduction in employment rates. That cannot be the intention of the cabinet. Mr Paternotte asked about the European Commission's proposal on labour migration. I refer to the BNC sheet, which has already been sent by the Minister for Social Affairs. Mrs Den Haan is asking for older people to be discriminated against in the labour market. It is extremely important that everyone can participate and get a chance. We are, of course, strongly opposed to any form of labour market discrimination. You will receive a letter from the Minister of SZW on how to deal with labour market shortages before the summer. It also addresses ways in which everyone, including the elderly, can or can continue to work, and people who are on the sidelines. Mr Segers asked about the accelerated austerity of the assistance contained in the Start note. Is this plan still going on? Indeed, the Start note states that the phasing-out of the double general tax reduction for welfare recipients in 2024 and 2025 will be accelerated as part of the burden relief package for middle income. It is linked to the rise in benefits through the minimum wage. The implementation will be decided in August. Mr Eerdmans and Mrs Den Haan asked about the package covering the link between the AOW and the increase in the minimum wage. I have the impression that the Prime Minister has already answered this. Mr Paternotte asked how the cabinet could help farmers with the transition to circular agriculture. That's a super important question. Of course, money has been made available for this. Minister Schouten has worked very hard on this in the previous cabinet term. In the letter of the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, the outline is outlined, but the Minister comes back to this even more comprehensively, also as part of the perspective that we want to outline to farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u218	The subjects came along in high-speed rail. Thank you for that efficient response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u219	Yeah, I'm looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u220	Sure. My question about the aid measure, i.e. the accelerated phasing out of the general tax rebate, arose not so much from the hope that this acceleration would continue, but from the hope that it would be revised. Now the Minister of Finance says that this is on the table in August, but if the increase in the statutory minimum wage is brought forward this year, with a link to the benefits, I hope that everyone will be treated equally. That is at least the political wish I wish to express, but I await further the proposals of the cabinet in August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u221	I've heard the wish and I can't commit to anything yet. This must first be weighed more broadly in the balance of things. Mrs Den Haan asked whether the plans for housing for older people could be brought forward. The acceleration of housing for all age groups is of course urgent. Minister De Jonge and the Minister of VWS are working on a plan of approach to living and caring for the elderly. There you will find an explanation of all plans. Mr Paternotte and Mr Omtzig asked how the cabinet would prevent the purchase of nitrogen duties. To comply with the Nature Protection Act, a company with a nitrogen deposition on a Natura 2000 site must have a Wnb permit. There is also a real commitment to how much emissions are allowed. Where agricultural operators terminate all or part of their business, such authorisation may be taken over by another party. The transfer of that licence, also known as external netting, must be approved by the province. They assess whether the permit fits within natural and nitrogen objectives in the area and can ensure that there is no speculative trade in the purchase and sale of these permits. I hear an increasing number of coughs in the room and next to me. I'll make more haste, but I can't go any faster than this, Madam President. It's a lot of money and big interests. It was not an exhortation, I hear beside myself; I know that. I just want to get everyone's attention back. I can hand it out, too. Mrs van der Plas asks if I would like to reduce the climate fund to spend that money on climate adaptation. I understand the question, of course. The climate fund is really meant for CO reduction. I think the Prime Minister has already said the same thing. We need to work on both adaptation and mitigation. The situation is only getting worse. We invest in CO reduction and also in climate adaptation through the climate fund. We do and-and. You may remember a major conference I think two years ago in which the cabinet was in favour and hosted the global adaptation Summit. Mr Klaver asked how we were preparing for a possible future euro crisis. I do not want to say "good question"; I deal with that very often. You can imagine that. Tomorrow there will be another Ecofin Council and a discussion of the Finance Ministers. It is true that the increased interest rates do not directly pose a major problem, at least for the Netherlands. We still have low interest rates for our own debt in recent years. Of course, the ECB held an urgent meeting this morning because of the fragmentation within the euro area. We have also read, but only in the newspaper, that they may now want to start a new instrument to get balance again. We can't judge 'cause I don't want to make any statements without seeing anything on paper or if this fits in with the role of the ECB and if it's really going to help. Their primary role is price stability. But we are in a very difficult situation and we are also aware that a number of countries in the South are in huge debt. That is why we also insist on the Stability and Growth Pact on debt sustainability, on credible and effective deleveraging. You may know the non-paper we have submitted together with Spain on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u222	I would appreciate it very much if the cabinet could return to this in a slightly more detailed written manner, not just because of what the ECB has decided today. I've been able to hear it in the media. I don't know what this means at all. But I do want to know what our position will be. 'Cause what I see happening is this. I'm talking about the rising spreads. That is what can cause panic in the financial markets. That can happen very quickly. Can the government comment on the potential impact of this on our financial institutions, but above all on what will become our political stance in Europe? Then we can have the debate on that quietly. Because if it happens when the panic has already broken out, we can only agree to everything that comes along.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u223	Agreed. But a letter has already been promised by the cabinet in the debate with the financial spokesmen. Let me take a look at your colleague, Mr Van der Lee. That letter's already in the making. I can't tell if it's there tomorrow. We want, of course, to take the latest developments with us. But it's already been promised. Mr Dassen asked about the green golden rule. What are we doing to maintain forward-looking investment in these times? Mr Dassen may remember our letter with our own commitment through the non-paper of the Stability and Growth Pact. That letter contains a paragraph on possible funds or the green golden rules. A defense rule comes up as well. There's going to be a social investment rule. In many countries, this debate is going in all directions. So we said in the letter of 4 March that we are reluctant to look at it and want to ensure that countries make choices in a normal, orderly fiscal policy with investments, reforms and credible debt disposal. The sustainability of debt is a major issue. A golden rule, in any form whatsoever........................................................................................................................................................................ In this period that is really undesirable. We also have the 'Fit for 55' programme and REPowerEU. There are many other paths and investment opportunities for many EU countries. Mr Klaver asked how the Netherlands fulfilled its obligations on the African continent. Are we gonna take extra steps over there? That's a very fair question. I believe that you were the only one who spoke to Mrs Simons about the consequences of hunger, displacement and displacement as a result of this crisis. It will be much larger outside Europe. That's already playing. The Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is really looking at this. We have increased the coalition agreement. We also do other forms of liquidity support. In addition to the relatively limited ODA instrument, we also use other instruments. By the way, we are under the present cabinet with an increasing ODA performance towards 0.65% in 2026. I'll take your question, including for Mrs., uh, Schreinemacher. Excuse me, I usually call her by her first name. I know she's on top of it. But as with everything else: the means are not infinite. We really need to look at what is possible, also in many other ways, for example through liveraging and the responsibility of the private sector. I don't want to take an advance on that. Mr Segers and Mr Stoffer asked for help for fishermen in view of the high fuel prices. The Minister of LNV is currently looking at the various fisheries regulations. Resources are also available for fishermen due to high fuel prices. 200 million euros are already available from the Brexit Adjustment Reserve to compensate for loss of income due to Brexit. In addition, there is €45 million for innovation from the North Sea Agreement. It is true: the fishing industry has been affected by the Ukraine crisis. But the cabinet believes that we do not support specific sectors. You have just received the letter from the Minister of EZK. It concerns not only the reduction of the corona aid, but also our attitude towards the continuation of aid. We have explained them. It is time for us, beyond the corona period, to move towards the functioning of the real economy. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Segers asked for investments in good public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u224	Before you proceed, Mr Stoffer, SGP, has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u225	I understand what the Minister is saying: after corona, we have to end up in an ordinary economy. But the cause here is not in corona, but in high fuel prices. Support is provided in the countries around us. And if you're not careful, our fishing in this unfair playing field is just gonna break. Please take a good look at it again. We will continue this debate next week or the following week, but do not let it go that way. Our fishing simply breaks down and will be gone in no time. Fishing continues in the rest of Europe, while ours is so good, climate-friendly and very progressive. My call: please look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u226	Yes, but it is really up to the Minister of LNV to discuss this with your Chamber. There are resources within the Brexit Adjustment Reserve that may be deployed. I think the Minister of LNV should look at what is and is not possible here. I understand that we are looking at how the sector relates to the surrounding countries, including corona. We need to look at what is still possible and what we need to do on the public side, but also at what the sector itself wants to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u227	Very briefly. I think we will come back to this in committee. I understand the internal perspective and reservation of the cabinet on sectoral support. I think that's gonna end sometime. That can't go on indefinitely. The level playing field at European level is an important additional consideration that I would like to give to the cabinet. It must be a fair playing field in that European market, which is truly an international market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u228	It's been noted. I can't make a commitment right now. I have heard Mr Segers and Mr Stoffer clearly. I will give this to Mr Staghouwer. Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Segers asked about investments in good public transport. We all understand the concerns. There is considerable investment in the construction and maintenance of public transport infrastructure. We have also decided to extend the availability fee until the end of 2022. The Secretary of State for IenW is currently in talks with the sector. I know that she is exploring possible options from those talks, because we also hear from the sector that it is still quite difficult. They haven't gone all the way back to where they were. Homework after corona is permanent and there are challenges in the field of staff. The Secretary of State has promised me that she wants to talk again after she has completed her own consultations and explored the options. Mrs van der Plas asks about the possibilities of making travel by train more attractive by reducing the level of public transport charges. It is already covered by the low VAT rate of 9%, as Mrs van der Plas knows. An adjustment of this rate requires further careful consideration and we have to consider whether a tax subsidy is the most appropriate instrument. There will be an evaluation and research results from the Ministry of Finance and the KIM respectively. They're gonna be available, and we really need those studies and those data. I would also like to refer to the Secretary of State for a follow-up discussion on tax regulations. He may still have very strong feelings about that, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u229	I don't remember asking a question about that at all. Maybe it's someone else's. Maybe my name's on top of it. My question was about the safety net. Public transport shall be supported until the end of 2022. There's no record of it by 2023. That is also the reason why a lot of people have been sitting in the gallery this morning. Transporters and trade unions are asking for 500 million euros to be reserved as a safety net. That money does not need to be transferred immediately, but should the number of travellers drop and they need that money, they would like to see it reserved in a jar. They foresee that otherwise public transport will be completely undermined, both urban and regional transport, that mobility will be put under pressure and that bus lines will have to be removed. That was my question. I don't know if the answer to that is still in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u230	I already gave that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u231	Oh. I've missed that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u232	I brought it with me with another question from Mrs Marijnissen and another colleague. The Secretary of State is already in talks with the sector and will then return to the cabinet. She is now exploring options and uses various studies, including those of the KIM. She's working on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u233	Oh, excuse me. That's what I missed in all the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u234	Anyway, you got an answer to a question that hadn't been asked. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u235	Apparently, it's pretty good. Now I'm curious by who.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u236	I didn't hear him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u237	Everyone's quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u238	A lot of questions have been asked. No one gets up and normally they do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u239	But not everyone may still be in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u240	Mr Wilders says it was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u241	Civil servants are working very hard and often try to anticipate, including possible questions. Mr Van Raan asks what the cabinet does in all dimensions of broad prosperity. I think we went through this in detail last week in the debate on responsibility. We are, of course, looking at integrating broad prosperity into the budgetary system. I do not want to repeat that here. We have tabled a motion on this matter to Mr Van Raan. With the Millions note, I hope to return to this with a first step forward. Mr Segers asks how we can reduce gaps and how we can maintain a living and united society. I have never done a Spring paper debate, but I had not necessarily thought of this question in preparation. It is a very important one, which we all recognise, also from the formation talks. Wealth loss, uncertainty and social uncertainty, if they are already there, will only be threatened with strengthening. I think it is the responsibility of the government to be on the side of the citizen, especially the most vulnerable. That's why we're looking at some of the suggestions that have been made, regardless of whether they're all manageable and affordable. It is an important question that is being asked. Mrs Van der Plas is asking for investments in youth care. Ms Den Haan asked about the implementation of the Youth Act and the setting of clear frameworks and objectives for municipalities. I believe that everyone agrees that better youth care for young people who need it is essential, as well as a system that is sustainable in the financial sense. That's the Youth Reform Agenda. There, together with the municipalities and the field parties, a set of measures is being developed to see how the scope of youth care, the quality and effectiveness of youth care and the implementing power of municipalities are strengthened. You were informed by the Secretary of State of VWS. I assume that conversation will continue. Mr Dassen asks whether, in Scotland's example, we can launch a national experiment on civic counseling for a future-proof labour market. The cabinet wants to actively involve citizens in a future-proof labour market and healthcare system. BZK is the executive department for any experiment or pilot. Funds have also been made available in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. I think it is a good thing that conditions are also being considered. The Minister of BZK will soon come up with a bill and you can also take your question with you about funding and all other options. I'm almost done, Madam President. Mr Stoffer asked how the cabinet would ensure that reporting minor crime, such as home invasions, would make sense again. It is important that we continue to emphasise from all sides that it always makes sense to report any form of crime. It's not just meaningful, it's just important. The police have tried to make it as easy as possible. You can report it in all kinds of ways, not just on the phone. And then hopefully the entire criminal justice chain will start, where this is possible. Each declaration shall examine whether the search is being carried out and, if so, with what commitment. So it is not so much the question of whether it pays or makes sense again. We must stress that it is necessary that people continue to do so. Mr Stoffer asked whether the cabinet would strengthen the security chain and improve cooperation between supply chain partners. A lot of resources have been made available in the coalition agreement and they have their effect in the Spring paper. It is about professionalising the cooperation between police and extraordinary investigators, strengthening the expertise of dealing with cybercrime, investing in justice: en-en-en-en. The development of these measures will come back in the form of concrete proposals for implementation. You will receive a letter from the Minister before the summer recess. Mr Eerdmans asked for reform of asylum policy along the lines of Denmark. I don't know if the Prime Minister answered that. No? Denmark is not bound by EU asylum rules due to its opt-out in the field of justice and home affairs. The Netherlands is. If another Member State wishes to obtain an exemption, it can only do so if the EU Treaty is amended accordingly. All Member States must agree to this Treaty amendment. Apart from all the other perspectives you can have on that, it is not a realistic path. A Dutch opt-out in the area of immigration and asylum is therefore not appropriate. However, all parties in this coalition have been committed to controlled migration in all facets. You will receive a regular update via the JHA Councils. The Secretary of State for JenV speaks to you regularly. I am sure that Mrs Van der Plas has asked this question, with Mr Stoffer. In fact, I think he was called a 'animal colleague' and perhaps Mr Segers was also called a 'animal colleague'. She asked about the toll-free of the Westerschelde tunnel and the lock complex near Kornwerderzand. The budget for regional deals is intended to promote broad prosperity. You received a letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 15 April 2022. A careful process is followed for the selection of the deals 2023. The cabinet can't anticipate that. We have, of course, heard your very clearly expressed wish. But I can't make a commitment to that. Mrs. Van der Plas is asking about the hiring of external agencies. External hiring takes place mainly with large implementation organisations. They deal with tasks of a highly specialised or temporary nature. I think you can think of the examples yourself. In some occupational groups there is simply real acute labour market shortages. For example, it is very difficult for the Empire to recruit good ICT staff, but it is good to continue to look critically at external hiring by the Empire. The responsibility lies with trade ministers. They shall be accountable annually. Ms Den Haan asked about the government's vision of ICT in the introduction and implementation of legislation. The Secretary of State for Digitisation has, of course, informed you about the digitisation policy. However, it is clear that we all benefit from a well-functioning digital infrastructure as a prerequisite for improving services. This, of course, also has to do with the elements of the Work on Implementation report. ICT is a major part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u242	Are you at the end of the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u243	I have another question from Mr Omtzigt and a question from Mr Segers. Mr Omtzig asked about the study of a social minimum. A committee is set up to investigate the social minimum. You will soon be informed of this. Mr Segers asked if I could promise that the contribution from the OS budget for humanitarian aid to Ukraine will be one-off. It's actually the other way around. Assistance to Ukraine is formally ODA. It's formal development cooperation money. It should be dealt with in its entirety. We have decided to make an exception to this and ask for a small, relatively nominal contribution from the ODA budget. The reception of Ukrainians is first-year care, but the numbers are so large that it is fair that the development cooperation budget is fairly well cleaned. If there is a recession in the future in which the government feels obliged to reverse, then this is also a way to look again at the maintenance of the ODA budget. So not the normal link with the growth of the GDP, after which a reduction in ODA funds takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u244	I had just disconnected it from the freshman shelter, because that's a regular appointment. It was 57 million extra. So it's about money going to help. That money would not otherwise go to Ukraine, but would be spent elsewhere in the world. I find it hard to follow in the system that everyone, including the Defense Department, can turn in their receipt. It is said: there are additional expenses, so we will honour that. But this does not apply to aid which otherwise would have gone elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u245	We are doing much more than just through development cooperation. A lot of other traces of OS are also covered. It's not just this. I'm gonna say it out of my head right now, but we'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u246	I saw now that there were agreements about the first half of this year and about a number of things that go through until the end of this year. Of course, we all hope that this war will come to an end soon and that we will not have to look at this anymore. Perhaps then we can look at what is a fair appeal to the various departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u247	I must say, however, that development cooperation is intended to be used where the need is high. I understand very well what Mr Segers is saying. In many places else people literally die of hunger. Indirectly, this is also a result of the war in Ukraine. But I think it is very fair and very reasonable that, in the context of good times, bad times, we should ask for a contribution from development cooperation. Many other departments can hand in their receipts, because of course their entire budget is not calculated on Ukrainians in the Netherlands. So that's another case. We can't make a one-on-one equation there. That is why there was a limited attack on the ODA budget, but in theory much more was removed by Finance if we had applied it strictly and strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u248	I think you've come to the end. There is another question from Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u249	In my term, I asked the cabinet how the cabinet monitors that the tax reduction and the VAT reduction do not stick with energy companies and petrol stations, but actually end up with the people. Or is the Secretary of State going to... I'll just wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u250	Excuse me, but thank you for the patience of Mrs Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u251	I just had a question about the list that the Minister listed at the very beginning of her term. In fact, we wanted the proposal that we are doing to regulate urgent legislation to ensure that it can be implemented in the short term. If the Minister is going to work this out, it would be nice if we did not get back that it could not be done in this way, but that would take into account what possible legal adjustments should be made to make it possible, even in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u252	We can take that with us anyway. Again, I mentioned a number of options. Just so we're clear, it's not and-and. We're not gonna do everything. They are options for action. In the letter we will take all the questions and suggestions to explain why something is desirable, desirable but not feasible, or why it is a good idea, but cannot now. The same applies to Mr Dassen's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u253	Thank you for that answer. If I understand correctly, any legislation that can ensure that an inflation payment is linked to the care payment can be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u254	All suggestions are adjusted and weighed. Mr Dassen cannot conclude from this that we are saying: yes, we are going to do so and we are going to work on that. We'll comment on that. If possible, that would be a clear yes. Everything is weighed and recoupled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u255	The Prime Minister has spoken with a number of Members of Parliament about our economic model as a starting point for all the plans we want to implement now and for what may be needed in the longer term. I've been talking about degrowth in my contribution. It is, as it were, necessary to achieve certain climate targets. I am very curious to see how the Minister of Finance looks at the Prime Minister's comments. He said, "That sounds like a good conversation to have in the long run." I would, of course, be delighted if the Minister of Finance also took part in this discussion. The Minister is faced with the challenge of real plans, getting the economy in order and reducing expenditure. I have put the question to the Prime Minister and I would also like to ask the Minister: how does she view the relationship between the desire for economic growth and the need for growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u256	I think that's a difficult question to answer. It's a very fundamental question. By the way, your colleague Van Raan also comes with nice system reviews at other times. I appreciate that very much. That'll keep us sharp. At the same time, this is a very difficult question. We're in a phase where we have to make a transition anyway. We want to grow much greener. For many years there has been talk of green orbits, but they still have a heavy fossil imprint. If you say "degrowth," I think I need a definition of how you look at it. We are also at a stage where there is often anticipating deglobalisation, but the figures do not show that at all. There is also talk of reshoring, but that can only be very limited. There is also talk of strategic autonomy. We want them, too. We also want to be circular. We want circular agriculture, but also circular production. This is all kind of tricky. Nothing's fast. That is why we have said in this coalition agreement that we are committed to the great transitions. A first step is to lay building blocks to meet the major challenges. I don't think Mrs Simons means we should stop growing. It means a different model of economic growth. I think that we are already taking very big steps in this direction because of the choices we are making.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u257	I thank the Minister for her answer. I have to say that, when it comes to degrowth, we may be further apart than she might think. My assumption, that is what I call it, is that all these green plans that have been discussed for so long have one thing in common, namely the starting point. They all start from the liberal idea that infinite economic growth is possible. We live in an economic model in which we speak of loss if we do not make a profit. If that remains the starting point for a green economy and therefore for green jobs, then I fear, and with me a number of Members of Parliament, and certainly scientists and people who know it, that we will continue to move around in the same circle. I would like to know from the Minister of Finance how she thinks that these two things, which seem to be contradictions, relate to each other. As I said, the Prime Minister suggested that we have that conversation in peace and space for once. If the Minister of Finance says that this is perhaps a better place, I am, of course, open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u258	I believe that the Minister for Economic Affairs will also be happy to join. I think it is important to note that no one here is saying that we must grow unbridled. The previous cabinet has also focused on international corporate social responsibility. It looks at chains, legislation, working conditions and sustainability. It also looks at limits to growth. This almost brings us back to the report of the Club of Rome. So I think we should take all those elements with us. Unbridled, unconditioned, no one says. We say: look at sustainability, look at how to achieve the jobs of the future in a sensible, sustainable way, and let us make the first real start through these choices. Indeed, we do not have much time left when we are just looking at global warming. So I think the prospects are just as far apart there. But then there are still choices you have to make. It also has to do with people's consumption patterns and behaviour. They often turn out to be the most uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u259	Thank you. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u260	One last question, though. If consumption patterns are put forward as an argument, then I wonder whether the Minister is also aware of the fact that these consumption patterns are influenced by that same capitalist economic system. If we're at the cash register, that's where the candy is. Because when they lie there, the kids say, "Oh, Mom, can I have a candy?" That's how it works. If something isn't there, we're not tempted to buy it either. What is not offered also gives no incentive to consume. That was actually not a question, but a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u261	To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u262	To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u263	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for her reply. Let me see if we can leave the Secretary of State to answer some questions, or we can have a dinner suspension first. I now hear a number of Members shouting very loudly: no, no, no. Does that apply to everyone? I think that goes for everyone. I would first like to ask the Secretary of State if he can reply as briefly and forcefully as the Minister of Finance, and how much time he will need.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u264	I'm guessing 10 minutes, 15 minutes tops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u265	Then I think it's appropriate to do it this way. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I come to the subject of the solidarity levy, which has been raised by a number of speakers. On 29 September last year, the previous cabinet, through my predecessor Hans Vijlbrief, addressed a similar question. This had to do with a completely different situation, namely whether companies that made certain excess profits could have been taxed separately in corona time. This is very complicated in the corporate tax regime. Fiscal profit is a concept that is fixed. We went through a tariff increase on 1 January from 25% to 25.8%. We have a 15% boarding fee. That is now up to €390,000. The proposal in the Spring Note is to bring that back to €200,000. If you were to say that a particular sector is going to have to pay a higher corporate tax, you would immediately face the issue of state aid and unequal treatment of companies, regardless of the fact that you are making the legislation very complicated. If that's what you want, there are a few buttons for that. I am not saying that the cabinet wants that, but we can, of course, just get that straight and update the letter of 29 September last year. Then you can do something with the fare. You can do something with the foundation. And in the end, it's also about the effective rate. I would like to point out that industry, including the package of measures contained in the Spring Paper, has now received an increase of around 8 billion. Can't you do anything? In Europe, the debate focuses in particular on the gas and oil companies, the energy-producing companies. Could you set up a windfall profit tax there? The European Commission has given a number of guidelines for this. We would, of course, like to come back to this in the answers to the questions put by Mr Dassen and Mrs Van Dijk. What we have seen so far is a little ripe and green. In the Netherlands we have a mining tax. It affects precisely the companies that make oil and gas extraction and exploration. They pay corporation tax and an additional mining tax. The Netherlands also has the advantage of dividend payments when it comes to Energy Netherlands e.g. I would point out, however, that the total burden is 70%. So part of it comes back in the form of dividend. In Britain, for example, we are talking about the possible introduction of an additional levy, which would result in 60%. That tax is the most similar to what we are doing. Other countries come with occasional charges. We will put all this in the correct answers. I think that the question is mainly to look for a piece of cover. But I would like to point out that it was already the subject of last year's debate. We come with an update of the letter of 29 September and we will answer the parliamentary questions. The Minister for Climate and Energy also comes with a letter on this subject. Last but not least: you must always look carefully at the consequences for the location climate and the investment climate in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. If you will allow it, I have now answered the questions about a solidarity levy and windfall profits tax. But I see Mr Dassen standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u267	I have one short supplementary question. I hear the Secretary of State mainly commenting on the situation now in fossil companies and possibly in raw materials companies. But we also ask whether there should be a basis, a basis, so that it can be used in times of crisis, just as you saw in the corona crisis with the big pharmaceutical companies and you might see in a future crisis with other types of companies. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u268	I have already indicated that we will come up with answers to your written parliamentary questions and also those of the others. Then we'll deal with that. But I've also indicated that this is really complicated. If you are going to impose additional burdens on specific sectors, you are going to have to object to European law. It sounds very strange, but that is perhaps reverse state aid for those companies that do not get that high tax. But let us just have that debate on the basis of the information that is shared with you as fully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u269	Yeah, sure. I wonder how other European countries are doing when they are dealing with state aid, but that will be included in the answers, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u270	Yeah, sure. Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked, and I'm still in time. Mr Wilders had a number of questions. I am not going to go into that in detail, because the promise has been made that all these questions will be answered. I am referring, of course, to the demand for the reduction of fuel taxes to zero. There is a minimum rate there. You can see that Germany now has that minimum rate and that the difference with our country is now €0.60, but we will go into this in detail. Mrs Hermans of the VVD asked how the cabinet can guarantee that the VAT reduction that starts on 1 July and the excise duty reduction of 1 April will actually work in the prices and not stick with the energy companies or service stations. This was taken from my heart. We're talking to the energy suppliers. I believe in a total of 175. We do that via Energy Netherlands. They have committed themselves to this, but I do not think that is enough. I think they should be transparent about how they passed that on. I know it's complicated, because sometimes it has to do with advances. You can do it on the advance, you can do it on the final bill. But of course we are not doing this VAT reduction in order to find that some of the energy companies have stuck. So we're really on top of it. I'm gonna get involved in this myself. There is, of course, also official consultation on this issue. As far as excise duties are concerned, I understand that this one-on-one work has been carried out. That was technically still quite complicated, because we wanted to do it immediately on 1 April. But the €0.17, at the euro rate for petrol, has just been passed on. Furthermore, we will soon also have discussions with the association of tank and pump holders. We also look at the effects on request, especially in the border region.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u271	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment, especially now that he says he will see to it himself. Can the Chamber also be informed about progress and the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u272	Yeah, I'll say that, of course. A number of questions from Mr Wilders and Mrs Marijnissen. We will also come back to reducing the VAT rate on gas and electricity from 9% to 0%. I can already say that the EU directives do not allow this. There is one country that did this, Poland. We are doing very well in the overall picture, considering what we have done to improve purchasing power measures as a percentage of gross national product: 0.71 compared to 0.9 in Poland. It does mean that they are at risk of an inter-group procedure from the European Commission. We don't want to avoid that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u273	It is indeed a good thing that the Secretary of State says so, because the Poles are doing it. The Poles also do it with the VAT on groceries, which they have also set at 0%. I do not believe that this will lead to any infractions, because I believe that this can be done with messages. I would hope that you will take into account that there are other Member States that do so. That too is fair. If the Poles can do it, why can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u274	As mentioned above, Poland is acting in direct violation of the Directive by reducing the VAT rate to 0%. We'll get back to that. We will make that comparison and we will share it transparently with you in the answers. There was also a demand for a reduction in the VAT rate on energy to 5%. We now have 0%, 9% and 21% in the Netherlands. I've got to give you a nasty answer. If we really want to introduce a 5% rate, we can only do this IT-technically by 2026. Then we have to reduce the 9% rate to the 5% rate. That has to do with the systems again, because you can only have three rates: 0%, 5% and 21%. Of course, you can also reduce the 21% rate to 19%. That is one of Mr Baudet's other questions. In doing so, we run into limited ICT capacity. Reducing the 21% rate to 19% costs 6 billion. We'll all write that down neatly. You can say that 1 percentage point is 3 billion at the general rate for VAT. Then a temporary reduction in the energy tax. In the letter of 29 March, we wrote it all down, because we discussed it in the debate on 22 March. That cannot be done in the interim in this year, 2022. You could do it by 2023. This also applies to tax relief. There was another question from Mrs Hermans about travel expenses. The Spring Note says that we are going to introduce this early, on 1 January next. It is up to employers to make use of the increase in the unpaid travel allowance. We come back to the Tax Plan with a more detailed approach, but that is something that the social partners themselves should be well on top of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u275	I do not know if the Secretary of State was already at the end of his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u276	Not yet. I've got some tax-free stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u277	Then we'll just wait...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u278	It's a very short question. A letter has been promised about windfall tax and solidarity tax. I just want to make sure that this letter really comes before we continue this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u279	Yeah, I can do that. We are already working on the answers to the written parliamentary questions on this subject. The letter from the Minister for Climate and Energy is in the making. I said that it was also, in part, an update of the letter of 29 September last year. Then other taxes. Mr Stoffer asked whether the rate for the first disc could be reduced because of the marginal pressure and the gap between one and two earners. This is something that we will come back to in the August decision-making process. The Minister has already said that 2.4 billion is still being spent on middle incomes, as agreed in the coalition agreement. The employment discount is an example of this. That's what the coalition agreement says. You can also do something with the rates. We would like to get back to that, including the discussion about marginal pressure and the gap between one and two earners. Mr Stoffer has asked if the cabinet is prepared... Oh, that's the same question. He also asked about the earlier abolition of the IACK. I hadn't answered that. That's not a cabinet plan. We have agreed on the abolition of the IACK, but we will have to look at a number of issues in the August decision-making process, also in view of the purchasing power picture at the time. So thank you for the suggestion, but it's not in the coalition agreement. Mr Van Raan asked if the cabinet would stop subsidising the fossil industry. We have agreed in the coalition agreement that we are doing a study on reducing all financial incentives for fossil fuels. Where possible, we do this as much as possible with other countries. For example, we are also doing this with the EU's "Fit for 55" package, although it has been delayed for a while. Tax subsidies are largely due to tax exemptions for specific users. It's part of the investigation. I would like to mention, for example, the exemption for excise duty on kerosene in aviation. Such exemptions do not fit into the energy transition. In addition, the cabinet in the coalition agreement has made the necessary arrangements in the area of fiscal climate policy, so we come back to the Tax Plan for 2023. That is the answer to this question. With that, I'll have it almost completed in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u280	Is this about the last point, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u281	Yeah, about the last point. I thank the Secretary of State. It would be nice if this information could come at a time when we, as a Chamber or at least as a party, could do some things with it, for example with the Tax Plan. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u282	The Council of Ministers discussed the fiscal policy and legislative agenda and the implementation agenda two weeks ago, but Mr Van Raan knows that. We're getting into this pretty good. Of course, we are not really going to decide until the August decision-making process. On Prince's Day, these proposals come out. In the regular treatment of the Tax Plan you will of course get all the space. Mr Eerdmans had asked about box 3 savers. At least, he proposed to compensate for it. We've talked about box three many times in this house. The last word on this has not yet been heard. What the cabinet is going to do in any case..... that is not new.. is handle all objections from the objectors who have raised massive objections over the years 2017 to 2021 before 4 August. It's on schedule. In addition, we will consider what to do with the non-objections over the period 2017-2021. We will see if and if so, to what extent we can compensate them. That's also in the spring note. In the letter of 15 April, I should like to point out that Table 2.4 shows what the budgetary consequences would be if you wanted to compensate the whole group. That costs at least 4 billion. We had a two-minute debate on this just last week and a preceding committee debate on it. So that's gonna be prosecuted. Then we're awaiting the ibo's report on power inequality. In fact, the Minister has already answered that question. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have already said something about it. The cabinet will have an initial exchange of views on that report at the earliest at the time of the August decision-making. We will, of course, come to the Chamber with an appreciation of the cabinet and we will also discuss this with the Chamber. It's being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u283	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his answer and finally give the floor to the Prime Minister for answering a question that remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u284	Mr. Chairman. Two things very briefly. There was another question about consultation on purchasing power with the social partners. This takes place with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for Social Affairs. That goes on, including the question of what the employers themselves can do there. So that goes on. And Mr. Ommzigt's question I've been trying to figure out: how do you prevent buyers and speculators... Mr. Ommzigt, you can hear me, right? How do you prevent buyers and speculators from getting away with it? I had that checked out. The Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen will have prepared themselves for this during next week's debate. There will not be a separate letter, but they will be prepared to answer that question further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u285	Then I would also like to thank the Prime Minister. This brings us to the end of part of the first term on the cabinet side. We agreed to plan the sequel at a later date. In doing so, a response will be provided for all the plans proposed within the Chamber. I assume that there will also be a letter from the cabinet. Actually, I wanted to close it now. Is it really necessary, Mr. Ommzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u286	If you give me a chance, it's always really necessary, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u287	Of course, that's a trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u288	Yeah, that's a total pitfall. Yeah, I'd like to see those plans, including that plan for the $800, the $400 and then. I would also like to see what those plans are doing in that particular example of a person who has to live off a minimum wage and who lives in a standard rental house. Then we can see if that category of people is really being helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u289	Thank you. I'll pass this on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u290	Mr President, a very small point. Maybe you meant it differently and I heard it wrong, but you said, "We have now come to the end..." We agreed to suspend the treatment of the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u291	Yeah, I said, "part of the first term."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u292	Oh, great! Then I've heard that wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u293	I even wrote it down on purpose, so I would put it right, because this is another unique thing. This is a unique situation. So we are going to do the rest of the debate at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u294	I would like to thank the directors, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the staff.
