ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35979, Amendment of the Temporary Law measures covid-19 to amend the renewal system and adoption of the Decision extending for the fourth time the duration of the provisions of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mrs De Boer. It will also speak on behalf of Mr Meijer of the VVD and Mr Atsma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's a unique thing to say. Welcome to the Minister. Congratulations. Mr. Chairman. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the groups of the VVD, the CDA, the PvdA, the Christian Union, 50PLUS, the OSF and, of course, my own GroenLinks. The D66 group will speak later, but I understand that she too supports this story. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the adoption of the fourth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19. An extension from 1 December 2021 to 1 March 2022. So we are talking about this extension at a time when the law is still in force for another week. We have to note that no profit has been made compared to the previous extension. We also talked about this extension a week before the period for which it was valid was over. Despite all good intentions and commitments, it has not been possible for this Chamber's control to be meaningful, let alone decisive. The groups on which I am speaking regret this. Although not all of our groups are equally enthusiastic about the precise impact, they appreciate the initiative taken in the House of Representatives to give effective control to both the First and the Second Chamber in the event of a possible further extension by means of a heavy suspension procedure. Mr. Chairman. The Temporary Law measures covid-19 makes it possible to impose far-reaching restrictions on the inhabitants of the Netherlands and the BES islands. The law makes it possible to take measures to intervene in the fundamental rights of residents. I refer to the right to education, the right to privacy, including the right to contact other people, the right to property of entrepreneurs, the right to experience religion, the right to inviolability of the body and the right to privacy. This list is not exhaustive. And yes, these rights may be restricted if there is a legal basis and this restriction is necessary and proportionate. This need can be present because other fundamental rights, such as the right to life and the right to health, can only be guaranteed by this restriction. The political groups on which I am speaking consider that the need to be able to take fundamental rights-limiting measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic was in any case present until recently and that the measures laid down in the law could be necessary and proportionate. I say 'until recently', because it has now been decided not to extend most of the measures, the question is what this means for the extension of the legal basis of the measures in question. When assessing this question, it must be ensured that the Twm is a temporary law. Not only should restrictive measures be lifted as soon as they are no longer necessary and proportionate, the temporary legal basis for these restrictions should also be removed if the need to do so is no longer met. In the opinion of our groups, we are approaching that point quickly for the whole of Twm and we may have already reached that point for some measures. As far as our groups are concerned, therefore, it is not possible to extend all the provisions of the Twm from 1 March, but it will have to be limited to the basis for the most necessary measures, for example only those which will remain in force after 25 February. Mr. Chairman. In any debate on how to deal with the corona crisis, this Chamber has insisted on a long-term vision, not only in terms of the direct fight against the pandemic or the organisation of the healthcare system, but also in terms of sound laws and regulations that allow measures to be taken that restrict citizens' fundamental rights. Legislation, which sets out clear criteria for the weighting of the necessity and proportionality of measures. Legislation setting out how long measures may be taken and when they should expire. Legislation which lays down democratic control and control over fundamental rights restrictive measures. Over and over again we were assured that this was being worked on and that we could look forward to the plans for this. They were supposed to come in September, December, January, February. The latest report is that we will receive a look at a long-term strategy in March. Moreover, the letter on this subject on 8 February does not mention the changes in the laws and regulations to make these pandemic and fundamental rights more secure. Our groups are not here to discuss this. On behalf of our political groups, I would like to inform the Minister that any further extension of the Twm will be judged on the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity at that time. The failure of the government to prepare permanent legislation in good time does not mean that we will continue to approve the Twm 'in case'. "In case" is not enough to be able to adopt necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity. Mr. Chairman. In order to strengthen these words, I am also tabling a motion on behalf of a large number of spokesmen. The: Mr De Boer, Mr Van der Voort, Mr Meijer, Mr Recourt, Mr Verkerk and Mr Arbouw proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the course of the pandemic justifies not to withhold approval for the period 1 December 2021 to 1 March 2022;]] [[noting that the pandemic has reached a next stage where there is currently little need to make use of the possibilities offered by the Temporary Law measures covid-19;]] [[noting that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is a temporary law and final legislation has been promised by the Cabinet;]] [[Notes that the fifth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which covers the period 1 March 2022 to 1 June 2022, can only be approved by this Chamber if, in the light of an unchanged favourable course of the pandemic, the extension is limited to basic measures such as distance, mouth caps, ventilation and hygiene and the main elements of final legislation are known, and calls on the Government to take this into account,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u5	Mrs de Boer, speaking on behalf of GroenLinks, VVD and CDA, is extremely critical of the law. She is now also clearly looking at fundamental rights. The PVV did that from the start. But I hear you now saying that we must start to consider whether we can still support this in the future. But, yes, that fifth extension is, if it continues in the same vein as it has so far, perhaps not until sometime in this Chamber in May. In the meantime, you yourself have the keys to vote against this law tomorrow, to vote against this law, thereby putting these disproportionate measures aside. Why should you continue to shoot a mosquito with a cannon by maintaining this serious emergency legislation for a limited number of measures and advice that you yourself describe? Why continue to use this heavy substance, when you can set aside the law yourself tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u6	In reply to this question, of course, I can only speak on behalf of my own group and not on behalf of the other groups. I have to tell you quite frankly that we have considered this. But we believe that it is just a step too early to put all the measures aside at the moment. There is little left, but for us the weighting is just the way to approve this extension, but another one we will not support if it is similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u7	But then this temporary emergency law still maintains a major instrument that is deeply interfering in democratic society and fundamental rights, and that for such limited measures, at least in the words of the speaker himself, 'limited measures' which are intended for the coming period? Why then continue to use this heavy substance? What, in any case, is GroenLinks proportional to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u8	Look, of course, we are judging on the previous extension, which we certainly considered to be proportionate and necessary at the time. The question arises at the next extension. Yes, you can blame the cabinet, and we will, if you have listened to my text, that they have not ensured that there has been permanent legislation. We do not yet know what proposal the cabinet will propose for the next extension. We hope that what we give to the cabinet today will still have an impact on that. In that case, we are in favour of it. We are not saying that all measures must be removed from the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u10	We do not yet know what the proposal will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u11	I can tell you two things. That there is now a role in the First Chamber which is not really the Upper Chamber, namely to take a certain amount of initiative here. In fact, we do not have the right of initiative. That's the first thing. But if you say: we want to be able to take our role, it is very simple: vote away the law tomorrow, put a line through it and let the cabinet come up with measures that we can then judge on their merits. If you take your duties seriously as a Member of Parliament, we'll just say tomorrow: that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it. Isn't that just the best, the easiest and also the most purely national road?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u12	Mrs De Boer, I would like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u13	The easiest yes, but the most pure state law, I disagree with you. If measures are to be taken, then we should return to emergency measures. That is not to be preferred by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u14	I have a question for Mrs De Boer, on behalf of GroenLinks, of course, about the motion that goes a little wider. I thought I heard her talking about measures. Does she agree with me that the measures she mentioned should only include measures that are mandatory, but that opinions or urgent opinions should not be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u15	That's right. These are only basic measures that must be possible if there is a need for them, which we all hope will not happen again. But no urgent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u16	No urgent opinions...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u17	As far as we're concerned, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u18	... like wearing a mouth cap or if the 1.5 meters wouldn't be mandatory, but only an urgent advice? So all the urgent advice doesn't belong in that anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u19	They don't belong in the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Mr Van Hattem has the floor on behalf of the PVV. For the sake of completeness, I would remind Members that, contrary to the previous planning, we will do the first term of the Amendment to the Public Health Act (35401), which was actually planned after dinner break. This is particularly true of the speakers: Mr Otten, Mr Nicolaï and Mrs Faber. Mr Van Hattem has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I have just indicated in the case of interruption, the quickest way is to get rid of the current unnecessary restrictions of freedom, in order to remove the extension of this Temporary Law measures covid-19 as First Chamber. However, this cabinet wishes to continue to adhere to this temporary emergency law and has indicated that it would certainly like to extend it until 1 June. In the Second Chamber proceedings of this bill, Minister De Jonge stated that the cabinet would prefer to continue to extend the Twm until the Public Health Act has been revised. He even stated that this would respect the temporary nature of the measures. Quite a contradiction. What do you mean, a temporary emergency law? With this extension, the current minister also continues the policy of his predecessor, which is not yet complete. For the past two years we have not had a health minister, but a Minister of People's Obedience, who has been cramped with the imposition of ineffective and fundamentalist measures, such as the absurd curfew. Instead of taking real measures that directly serve public health, such as scaling up ic capacity and making necessary investments in care. The current VWS Minister also continues, against better knowledge, to maintain ineffective but devoid measures such as keeping mandatory 3G on the work floor in the toolbox, the new 1G policy for indoor sites with more than 500 people, and the legal continuation of the A status and the associated powers to take far-reaching measures. When will public health really come to one place instead of the desire for power to have as many measures as possible in the cabinet toolbox? Isn't that what made that toolbox a Pandora's box? Not for nothing did Marcel Levi say this weekend in De Telegraaf that there should be less doom thinking in disaster scenarios that in practice do not come true and especially bet on the expansion of the ic-beds. As long as the Twm, the emergency law, is not completely off the table and measures are still in force or can be removed from the refrigerator, effective implementation must be given to the Van Hattem motion adopted in this Chamber in the possible use of measures: so indicate pre-checkable indicators for all measures. Mind you, this motion still has the status "not carried out." In previous reactions of the minister's predecessor, we were sent from the cabinet to the wall with regard to the basis for these indicators. After all, how inconsistent have the open plan and the coronadashboard proved. Can the Minister indicate which indicators he intends to use when implementing measures based on the Twm, more specifically the possibilities of removing the Ctb from the fridge, the Corona Access Card? What's the OMT's position, anyway, the Outbreak Management Team? That is also an important question to ask here. In the Lower House there is now the necessary discussion about the possible influence of the Ministry of Education and Science of the OMT opinions. However, this is also extremely relevant in view of the justification of the Twm and its related measures. Is the OMT sec intended as an advisory body? If so, how is his independence from the VWS ministry guaranteed? Or is the OMT precisely meant as a policy body, which assumes the word "management" in its name? In its opinions, the OMT defines its own objective as follows: "The medical and substantive state of affairs concerning COVID-19 to be determined and indicated for the follow-up of actions and for the answer to questions from the Dutch authorities," according to the 137th OMT opinion. How does the Minister see the position of the OMT, particularly at the present stage? To what extent does the "follow-up of actions" objective have a policy role to play? What is actually meant by "management"? What does this mean for a policy task of the OMT or the advisory role towards the Minister? What does this say about any influence on OMT advice from the VWS ministry that would be involved? Recently released Wob documents from the VWS Ministry now show that in May 2020 it was already clear that asymptomatic infections did not play a role in the corona crisis and that the OMT was also aware of this, but that without scientific evidence, the risk of these asymptomatic infections was used as a basis for freedom-limiting measures. This makes it clear why the former Minister was always so reluctant to build concrete testable indicators. A science-based story was missing and measures were therefore based on assumptions, or sharper, on false grounds. Can the Minister therefore provide a clear and complete scientific basis for the measures at issue in the extension of the Twm? Is that scientific basis also shared by the OMT on an independent basis? Last year, the then VWS Minister spoke in his policy papers about the transition from a pandemic to an endemic phase. In the note to the report accompanying the present legislative proposal, Minister De Jonge stated on 4 January that "a disease becomes endemic if it remains at or below an acceptable level for a longer period of time without significant measures. What is acceptable without major measures is location, time and disease-dependent. It is therefore up to the Cabinet to make explicit what are major measures, but above all what is an acceptable level." The Minister therefore gives a very general definition here, giving himself carte blanche in order to fill this out. We've moved on for a long time now. The effects of the Omikron variant appear to be not so bad, hospitals and ic figures are falling and have been at a low level for a long time, and measures can now also be scaled down. In short, can the Minister indicate what concrete criteria are for "absolute" and "acceptable" and how is he going to apply them? Can the Minister indicate whether or not we could enter this endemic phase and on what criteria and indicators? What more is needed than the current situation and is it scientifically justified? In this explanation of the corona situation, it is important to distinguish between patients receiving primary care due to corona and patients suffering from other conditions who also test positive for corona. However, the LCPS, the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spread, is not unknown to the Minister, does not yet distinguish between patients admitted with or through corona, according to RTL Nieuws on 15 February. Can the Minister explain why not and why this is explained in the last 142th OMT opinion? Why isn't there a consistent pull-through? Can the Minister explain how the previous commitment to this House is being fulfilled by his predecessor to the undersigned? On 17 February, this minister tweeted a video about vaccination by the GGD in the Ulumoskee in Utrecht. Apparently, the Minister considers it acceptable to use an ISN or Diyanet Mosque, which is under the direct authority of the Turkish State, for his policy. Doesn't the Minister actually give in to Islamic Turks in the Netherlands, who do not want to accept the Dutch authority and primarily allow the Turkish government to lead? In other municipalities, such as Den Bosch in the Arrahmamoskee, the GGD also vaccinates in mosques. Why can't visitors from such a mosque come to a regular GGD location? Can the Minister indicate whether mosques are paid by the GGD for the use of these vaccination rooms? Can the Minister also indicate whether and to what extent Islamic rules are applied to the use of such spaces in a mosque for such GMD vaccinations, such as separating men and women? On 25 February there are now certain relaxations of the TWM measures, but at the same time the Cabinet introduces a new 1G measure, again without verifiable indicators. The Minister confines himself to a supposed effectiveness to support it. Once again, the Minister gives the Cabinet a blank cheque for the continuation of the measure. I quote: "Depending on the epidemiological situation, it will be carefully considered when the 1G deployment for high-risk settings can be released." End of quote. The word "narrow-watch" doesn't mean anything. Can the Minister, in accordance with the Van Hattem motion adopted, appoint concrete and verifiable indicators for this measure? The cabinet also says the following with regard to the corona admission certificate, and I quote: "The uncertain course of the virus and the possibility of a new variant means that a targeted legal instrument for the deployment of a ctb is necessary to be ready when the epidemiological situation so requires." With such a broad explanation, the measures can be extended indefinitely, because what does the cabinet mean by "the virus" in this context? Any further mutations or variants, regardless of risk status? Then what's leading? The virus strain? Does that automatically affect almost all SARS variants? What scientific basis can the Minister provide for this explanation? Recently I learned from the field of care that there would be many unusable nursing home beds for further recovery of covid patients after hospitalization, because there was still a conflict between nursing homes and insurers about the reimbursement of the use of nursing home beds in the previous year. This would also keep hospital beds occupied for longer than necessary. Can the Minister confirm this? Has this been resolved by now? What is the Minister doing to prevent this from happening in the future? Can the Minister indicate to what extent such insurance issues can unnecessarily be dealt with in the occupation statistics of hospital care and thus give an impure picture of the situation and, consequently, of the epidemiological situation? In the amendment of the Temporary Scheme measures covid-19, the Trm, to introduce 1G policy, the Minister refers to the right to health care under Article 22 of the Constitution and to international conventions as regards fundamental rights and proportionality. The Minister states: "There is therefore a constitutional and human duty for the Cabinet to act to protect public health." The Minister added that these measures were necessary to restrict certain human rights, such as respect for privacy in accordance with Article 10 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the ECHR. According to the Minister, these restrictions are allowed because they are necessary in a democratic society. The Minister only refers to the 142th OMT opinion as the sole justification for the proportionality of this restriction of fundamental rights. The Minister said: "On the basis of this opinion, the cabinet may assume that the measures are appropriate. The OMT opinion also highlights the need to take appropriate measures quickly." This is once again merely an assumption that the cabinet uses to restrict fundamental rights. On the basis of an OMT opinion on which the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America may exercise its own influence and in which the RIVM is also involved, which is under the direct responsibility of the Minister. So how can the Minister maintain that this is a completely independent opinion? With this authority influenced by the cabinet as the sole authority, it is inappropriate to justify a restriction of fundamental rights. Furthermore, the Minister states: "It is noted that the OMT cannot specifically demonstrate the contribution of each measure to reducing the number of infections." Thus, the 1G policy is based on assumptions, but if the contribution cannot be demonstrated in advance, can at least the verifiable indicators be identified, so that the measure is at least measurable and verifiable? This also does justice to the Van Hattem motion. I'd like a response. There is also the review of the European DCC Regulation, the EU's digital corona certificate. In the letter of 15 February, the Minister states: "From 23 February onwards, in line with the European agreements, a DCC will always be requested, regardless of the epidemiological situation in the country of origin." I quote again: 'even if the epidemiological situation improves, passengers must be able to show a DCC in the coming period'. Can the Minister explain how such a measure can be proportionate at all if it is intended to protect public health? How can fundamental rights be restricted because of the importance of public health if the epidemiological situation has become irrelevant? In addition, a "new worrying variant of the virus from abroad" is mentioned as regards the re-establishment of a quarantine obligation. Can the Minister indicate what the criteria are for "a new worrying virus variant abroad"? What are the specific criteria for "worried" and by whom is this ultimately determined? Can the Minister further indicate what the developments surrounding the EU's digital corona certificate will mean for the Netherlands in the coming year? After all, the Austrian and German Health Ministers are already discussing further measures for next year. For example, the Austrian Health Minister Mückstein states that the police can check the vaccination certificate as of 15 March and will then use automated data comparison in a subsequent phase to identify unvaccinated people. Can the Minister indicate to what extent these automated systems are linked to the DCC and what this can mean for Dutch people to use this instrument? Last week, the German Health Minister, Karl Lauterbach, said that there are still so many unvaccinated people in Germany that without vaccination there will be serious problems again in the autumn. Can the Minister guarantee that, given the EU's commitment to the DCC and the German commitment to a vaccination obligation, agreements at European level, for example on the DCC, will not result in a vaccination obligation for our country? Finally, Mr President. Why does the Minister want the Twm, the emergency law, to be extended until 1 June? Why does he insist on the quarterly extension period and not, as a cabinet, withdraw this Twm on the basis of the epidemiological situation? That's also a possibility. Why is he so compulsive about this serious emergency measure? As far as the PVV is concerned, we are already putting a line through this Twm. Then we will no longer have to discuss in detail the consequences of the Westerveld amendment. The Twm is no longer necessary. Now that the minister doesn't want to withdraw it, we're going to have to vote this law out of the First Chamber. The PVV will therefore vote against the extension of the Twm. So much for my contribution in the first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Voort, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u23	I would like to ask Mr Van Hattem how he looks back on the last three months, which is the subject of this approval law. It covers the period December, January and February. Could we have got through that period without the measures, as they were in the Twm and were applied? Could we have been able to get through that period without any of those measures without getting a further overload of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u24	We have seen that measures have been taken over the last three months which have been totally disproportionate. We were the only country in Europe where such a total lockdown was imposed at Christmas. We shouldn't forget that. This cabinet has done all that on the basis of this law. Without clear indicators and without clearly proven effects, far-reaching measures have been imposed. That should never have happened. At the time, as PVV, we voted against the extension. With this we have given the signal: this cannot be continued. That's what's happened now. Measures have been taken that should never have been taken. Of these, everyone has suffered enormous damage to society, to our entrepreneurs, to our catering industry, to many young people. That is the reality that this law has led to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u25	I'd like to go back a little further. At the beginning of December we had a huge peak of hospitalizations and ic-recordings. During that period, this has been slowed down by the use of measures. That's a different period than January, which Mr. Van Hattem is talking about right now. I just want a little more time back. How should we have dealt with the peak in the Netherlands at the beginning of December? Could we have acted in one way or another without measures? How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u26	D66, Mr Van der Voort, once again assumes that these measures were effective. First of all, let us note that care has not become overloaded. Secondly, let us note that measures have not been shown to have contributed to this. If D66 had seriously wanted to avoid this, it would have been much earlier to invest in scaling up ic capacity and care. Instead, D66 has only further undressed the care in recent years. All the proposals we have put forward to deal with them have been stopped by D66. If public health is taken seriously, then we are going to take it on board by Marcel Levi, who has also tried to scale up ic capacity and invest in care, and we are not sticking to these emergency measures. They merely make an unnecessary claim to society and are not proven effective. There is no millimeter proof that these measures have had any effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u27	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u28	Finally, Mr President. I do not see how we could have dealt with the situation at the beginning of December without these measures. Frankly, I am not going to go much further with Mr Van Hattem's speech. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u29	Thank you. I call Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u30	Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is good to see that we now finally have an experienced medical practitioner as Minister of Health. We have always argued for a knowledge cabinet, with people with knowledge and experience in their specific field of expertise. In fact, that is one of the main reasons why I went into politics. The Netherlands really, very urgently needs better governance, with better people on the buttons. At least that was started at the VWS ministry. Shortly after last summer's dance-with-Janssendebacle, our group tabled a motion to replace the previous minister immediately with a competent physician with knowledge who could regain the confidence of the people. Unfortunately, that motion didn't make it back then. At the time, we only received support from the PVV group, but it would of course have been much better if Minister Kuipers or a similar physician had already replaced the previous minister. A lot of precious time has been so lost. Mr. Chairman. The Rutte IV cabinet contains an important construction error: Minister Kuipers' predecessor is still part of the cabinet, albeit in another post. This makes it impossible for Minister Kuipers to carry out the catharsis that is now urgently needed and to distance himself from the bad policies of his predecessor. However, we advise Minister Kuipers to do so, because that is the first necessary condition to make the Netherlands a cool and sweet country again, to use the words of Prime Minister Rutte this morning, and to end the polarisation. Anyway, apparently our motion had an impact on the cabinet formation. Better late than never, let's just say. Mr. Chairman. Temporary measures take the longest. We have seen this several times in the Netherlands in the past, such as the Law on Economic Crimes, the Law on Paying Tax, the Extraordinary Decree on Employment Relations, the temporary VAT increase of Wouter Bos from 2012, the 1991 Kok quarter and so on. To this illustrious list, the disproportionate and democratically dubious Temporary Law measures covid-19 should absolutely not be added. The Minister recently announced his intention to put this emergency law in the refrigerator. This emergency law should not be placed in the refrigerator, but in the waste bin. Deposit the law, as we do waste separation, then immediately in prison for bad legislation. All these extra powers are good to have, the minister thinks, or thinks his successors, whoever they may be. That is what I said on 26 October 2020 when we dealt with this emergency law here in the Upper House. How are we ever gonna get rid of this? We were wondering at the time. Unfortunately, this warning was not superfluous, because it is exactly as our group provided for when this emergency law was introduced. The cabinet wants to put the emergency bill in the fridge right now, because you never know if you'll need it again. Mr. Chairman. The expiry date of this emergency law has long expired, so we should not put the law in the fridge, but throw it away. As I have reminded you many times, I myself am a supporter of vaccination, especially for 50-plussers and vulnerable groups, and I have also been vaccinated myself. Too much has been created in the Netherlands where, if you are in favour of vaccination, you are automatically expected to be in favour of all kinds of different legislation. We need to get rid of that. Most Dutch are for vaccination, but against QR codes and against disproportionate legislation. There is now an urgent need for a more nuanced approach. That could be a huge help to reduce polarization. This emergency law not only infringes the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people; it is also a strong piece of bad legislation, in which this First Chamber has also deliberately outplayed itself. Now the First Chamber may approve the extension until 1 March: the First Chamber as a post-mortem stamp factory. Mr. Chairman. From the Wob documents that have been made public so far, an extremely cynical picture emerges, in which Rutte cabinet knowingly brutalized the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch people. This is something that many lawyers warned about at the time, and which our group also constantly pointed out from the first hearing with Minister Hugo de Jonge in the Upper Chamber in the summer of 2020. For this reason, we have always consistently voted against the introduction of this temporary law and its extensions. I have here a quote from an e-mail dated 25 May 2020. According to the context and content of the e-mail, this e-mail must have been prepared by the predecessor of Minister Kuipers. I quote from this wobbled e-mail: 'It is important to admit, of course, that the emergency regulations lack democratic legitimacy and are a shaky basis for fundamental rights, but we do not say that. (...) We do say that the legislative proposal has struck an optimal balance for the dilemma that inevitably results in the unification of the objectives of the legislative proposal (which was my own and I am still proud of it), because underneath it you can follow anything you want! We'll make some sentences tomorrow." So much for the quote from the Wob email of 25 May 2020. And then we only arrived with the Wob documents in May 2020, while the focus of the legislative activities around this emergency act was mainly after the summer of 2020. But what has now come out of Wob's pieces doesn't predict much good for what else will come out of this Pandora box. The VWS Minister was therefore well aware of the extremely dubious and far-reaching violations of fundamental rights. This clearly shows the wobbled e-mails that have been revealed so far. In any case, it is clear that there was also awareness in the bosom of the cabinet of the fact that this emergency law is disproportionate. But the cabinet went through with it knowingly and this First Chamber simply approved the law despite all the warnings and put himself and the passerby out of play. A First Chamber that cannot stand up for its own rights will lose its right to exist, I said when dealing with this emergency law in October 2020. It is precisely groups that are always talking about the legal quality of legislation in this Chamber, and which, in the debate on the declaration of government last week, advocated limiting the role of the First Chamber to the purely legal assessment of laws, that were the strongest supporters of this obviously bad law. The coalition parties, assisted by GroenLinks and the PvdA among others, rushed this temporary law through the First Chamber and quickly provided the cabinet with the necessary stamp. And from today's joint contribution by Mrs De Boer, I conclude that they are now going to do so again. This Temporary Law covid-19 has led to enormous polarization in society. Today Prime Minister Rutte says in the AD that the Netherlands is a cool and sweet country. If that was the Netherlands, then it is certainly not now, after two years of bad corona policy by the Rutte cabinet, including, but not limited to, this bad legislation, which is disproportionate. Mr. Chairman. That's why we're filing the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the corona situation is now under control, as hospital and ic recordings have become very limited and manageable; noting that the Temporary Law provides for measures covid-19 to infringe disproportionately the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch citizens; noting that temporary legislation often lasts the longest and therefore now is the time to repeal the Temporary Law measures covid-19; calls on the Government to repeal the Temporary Law Covid-19 as soon as possible, and goes to the order of the day. This motion has been co-signed by my colleague, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u31	Is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported? That's the case. Then the motion is part of the debate under 35979, letter F.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u32	As we are voting by roll call tomorrow on several corona legislative proposals, including the extension of this Temporary Act, I also request a roll call vote on this motion, so that the 17 million Dutch people are absolutely clear where these 75 Members of Parliament stand when it comes to protecting their fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u33	I have a very enlightening question about the motion. Mr Otten asked the cabinet to withdraw the Twm as soon as possible. But the VWS Minister may say: as soon as possible, as we look at it, perhaps before 1 June, but it may also be later. What is the purpose of Mr Otten's motion? I think he wants the Twm to be withdrawn now, but now he leaves it up to the cabinet, when that thinks it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u34	That's a good addition. Maybe we should put another deadline in it, so we should ask for the law to be repealed before 1 March. I shall then amend the motion with Mr Janssen's good suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u35	You can change it now, if you like, Mr. Otten. Otherwise it has to be in the third term. Can you do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u36	Yeah, I gave up the motion, so I lost it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u37	Then we're going to replay the motion back into your hands through the messenger. Is that gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u38	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u39	In the meantime, Mr Janssen has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u40	Well, not so much a follow-up question. It was a question of clarification, because I was wondering what the motion was about. That has become clear to me now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u41	Then I change the last sentence to "call on the government to repeal the Temporary Law Covid-19 as soon as possible and by 1 March 2022 at the latest'. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the corona situation is now under control, as hospital and ic recordings have become very limited and manageable;]] [[noting that the Temporary Law provides for measures covid-19 to infringe disproportionately the fundamental rights of 17 million Dutch citizens;]] [[noting that temporary legislation often lasts the longest and therefore now is the time to repeal the Temporary Law measures covid-19;]] [[calls on the Government to repeal the Temporary Law on measures covid-19 as soon as possible and by 1 March 2022 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35979-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u42	I thank Mr Janssen and continue my speech. Mr. Chairman. Finally the OMT: a wheelbarrow full of frogs who have been contradicting each other every evening for two years now at the talk show tables. As a result, the Dutch people have lost their way. Last year our group tabled a motion to appoint a chief medical officer following the example of many other countries, such as the United Kingdom, but also Canada, the United States and so on. That is a much more pleasant and effective way to communicate with the population. We are pleased to note that this advice has been followed in the coalition agreement on page 32. According to our group, therefore, it is high time to dissolve the OMT and streamline the decision-making process through this chief medical officer. What is the situation with that? Our question is to the Minister. Mr President, in conclusion. This Temporary Law covid-19 should not be extended and should not be in the refrigerator, but we must now withdraw it, otherwise we will never get rid of it. Thank you for your attention. We look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u43	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u44	Thank you, Mr President. For this minister, too, the individual congratulations of my group, following the collective congratulations last week to the Prime Minister and the entire cabinet. I think we should hold on to that for a while, because that's kind of courteous. Fundamental rights protect you and protect you. Fundamental rights are not managed and restrictions on fundamental rights are not tools for a toolbox. The Temporary Law measures covid-19 must be exactly what the title says: a temporary law. I have already said in the debate on the third extension in an explanation of vote that we would still support it, but that we do not find a fourth, fifth and even sixth extension announced by the previous Minister. The VWS Minister speaks in an instrumental way about fundamental rights restrictive measures. This is perhaps understandable from his point of view, but as far as my group is concerned, it is undesirable. Infringements of fundamental rights should not last a day longer than is strictly necessary, as I pointed out when the Twm was introduced in 2020. The VWS Minister states in the note on the report that he does not yet know whether there will be a sixth extension on 1 June. In my group's view, there has been all the time and reason to regulate what is still deemed necessary in a regular law, such as the Public Health Act, with orderly parliamentary relations, I would like to add, which is not being added to it. Why has that not yet happened, I ask the Minister, all the more so because in October 2020 a motion from my colleague Hijink was adopted in the Lower House not to work on emergency legislation, but to come up with a structural amendment of the Public Health Act. That motion was used by the previous minister, but also by the current minister as a kind of permanent postponement note. It becomes sequential and not simultaneous. We regret that. Of course, you can wait for all the lessons and recommendations, including those from the Security Research Council, to be incorporated into the Wpg, but you can also take the working path that you think you need in the current situation, in order to put an end to the undesirable situation of restricting fundamental rights on the basis of a temporary law as soon as possible. So my question to the Minister is: when will that have happened? Does the Minister still have instruments to keep up with? If so, when does he want that settled in the Wpg? And then there is the question of when the Minister intends to withdraw the Twm. Mr. Chairman. At the moment the relaxations are following each other at a rapid pace and this justifies the question of what remains of the content of the Twm as of 1 March next. Does that still justify the conservation of the Twm? After all, the Twm is not a toolbox in case, but an absolute emergency law, to deal with a temporary crisis. Mr. Chairman. I was dizzy by the turn of the cabinet in the note following the report, when it comes to changing parliamentary control in the Twm, let me just say it out loud. And now that the VWS Minister himself has already said that he does not know whether there will be a sixth extension of the Twm on 1 June, the question is whether the change of control on 1 June has not become a dead letter. In order to understand the motives of the cabinet, I would like to hear why the Minister now considers it possible to come forward with the proposal for extension four weeks before the start date, which has so far proved to be indisputable and unworkable. I would like a response from the Minister on that point. If the current approval law had been filed with the same time limit prior to the date of entry into force, the two Chambers could also have reached a judgment before the date of entry into force. I believe that successive ministers can be blamed for having always submitted the extension of the royal decrees and thus the adoption law at the very last minute. Why did this happen and why is this still happening? Mr. Chairman. The Minister can then again point out that the Lower House used more than two months for the last two extensions to deal with that approval law. Both the Minister and the House of Representatives have therefore not acted as expected and hoped, given the importance of protecting fundamental rights; not on either side. I will not go into the technical aspects of the amendment which fundamentally and fundamentally changed control by the initial law. There are really very strong reservations about this and the question is whether this can be done. That has not been discussed in the House of Representatives. But let me say that it will set a precedent, now that it has been done with the agreement of the cabinet and coalition parties. Mr President, concluding. A temporary law should remain temporary. Limiting fundamental rights is undesirable as a starting point and, if there is no other way, should be regulated by a regular law with normal parliamentary relations. That has not been the case for five quarters now, and as far as the SP group is concerned, that has to end now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u45	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Mr Nicolaï has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister is not only an experienced physician, but also someone who likes to make good notes. Yeah, an experienced physician. Congratulations on being here. I think this is really another minister. I've already tried to look at this minister's shoes, but I haven't succeeded. But I suppose we'll have a lot of exciting debates with each other. An experienced physician. That is good, but for my part, we are having a debate today with this experienced physician, which deals with two very special constitutional questions, and I am almost a little embarrassed that I now have to discuss these issues with a medical practitioner. But I'm sure his officials will be very helpful in that. And then I shall begin with the motion by a number of government parties, raised here by Mrs De Boer. We are actually getting another kind of motion: we have the motion of censure, the motion of censure, ordinary motions, but this is actually a warning motion. Well, I'm very curious, too. I didn't hear Mrs De Boer ask the Minister how he thinks about this either, because this is actually something that seems to be addressed to us all. But I would like to know what the Minister actually thinks of that warning motion. And this is what I'm talking about. It actually says: remember, Minister, we are really not going to participate in that fifth extension if the main elements of the final legislation are not known at that time. That's the warning. I still don't know when these guidelines are known. I have the feeling that this is being pushed backwards and that that is why we all find ourselves maneuvered in this particularly bizarre situation. That applies to Mr Janssen, as I do. We have said as parties: okay, that is now ready for us; we are voting against this extension. Other parties don't have those balls, if I may put it that way, which come with such a motion. But the point is that these parties, too, feel in a bizarre state situation. And then the government says: that is what the First Chamber has to do with itself, because it itself had proposed this in that motion; and the House of Representatives is also responsible, because it all stops a bit. My question to the Minister is: if you perceive that as a government, if you observe that such a situation, which we as the First Chamber never foreseen when we adopted that motion, then we should vote on it two days before that law expires, whether we agree that it has applied in the last three months... Why hasn't the government had the balls to come up with a proposal? The amendment we find in this law today has not been discouraged, so it seems that the government had no problem with it. Why wasn't that just picked up, discussed and so forth? I think this is a point that needs to be considered. Perhaps the Minister, also in the context of that constitutional and constitutional question, could address this point: how do you see that warning? Another constitutional point has actually been raised by Mr Janssen. That is the question that we are actually deciding today on two separate legislative proposals. One legislative proposal concerns, and is limited to, the adoption of the extension. In addition, with an amendment, another legislative proposal was introduced at one time: an amendment to that temporary law and the renewal system. I have great hesitation in this as an administrative and state law scholar, which I have also put down in my questions. I was shocked by the rather firm response in the note, which says: you can simply adopt an amendment on a completely different law; there is nothing against that. Reference was also made to constitutional history. Of course, I immediately called all the people I know from the field, and I said, "Have you read anything?" But no. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what this is based on and from what passages in the constitutional history it is based that an amendment on a legislative proposal can suddenly take a completely different law and put it in it. I like to say that common sense is also important. This minister is an experienced physician, but I would like him to join me on Article 84, first paragraph of the Constitution. It says: "As long as a proposal of law that has been submitted has not been adopted by the House of Representatives, it may be amended by it." That "it" is therefore the proposal presented to the House of Representatives. If you use your common sense, you don't need justice and scholars at all. Surely there is nothing more to it than that you can table amendments to a bill that has been brought before you, but that you can't bring in another law in one go? I mentioned the example of the Housing Act which is being amended and someone at the last moment, at 11 p.m., if everyone is completely hotel debunk in the House of Representatives that is going to happen to you all, or have you been there already, Minister O'Neill is tabling an amendment on the Rent Act. Can we do that? Isn't that just out of the question of state law? Is that okay? I would like to put that to the Minister again. In particular, I would like to look at the position of the First Chamber, because what is happening? Take a look at the bill that's here today. The First Chamber can agree to the extension of the law. We also have a proposal to change the system of renewal. It may well be possible, even if I have listened here and there, to say that some groups say: we are in favour of this one independent legislative proposal, because we would like this extension, but we are not at all in favour of that other one. What do they want? Since we have actually only received one legislative proposal, we cannot actually properly exercise the constitutional function of the Supreme Court as a good co-legislator. That's what I'd like to submit to my fellow senators. If we now accept as a precedent that an amendment can simply introduce a totally different law as a legislative proposal, then we will create a situation in which the Upper House, which cannot amend other than the Lower House, can only approve or reject the total. But if the total consists of two separate legislative proposals, we are stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u47	Thank you very much for this interesting speech. I don't know if it's a precedent. I think the amendment is impure, I think I have seen it before. But my question to you is: is it not the role of the First Chamber to say yes or no over the whole package? Whether they are different laws or not, there are always elements that we like or not, and everything weighs up we are for or against. So what difference does the principle make now whether the amendment sees another law, or whether it was an amendment to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u48	That is a difference in terms of two independent laws which represent a very different general interest. Then, of course, you have a very different situation than when you, as a Chamber, get a bill that deals with one subject and which you can only approve or reject as a whole and cannot change the details. That is absolutely a different situation. And chairman, if I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u49	As long as you give a short answer, as interruptions always require short answers and are also brief. Otherwise, we're gonna go to state law...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u50	A very short follow-up question halfway through your answer then. It is common practice for different laws to be amended by one law when they relate to the same subject matter. We have already had this in the debate before, where we also had two laws to deal with in one law at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u51	If there is a link to be made up, including in the legal sense, then I can imagine something else. But that coherence is lacking here. I come to a history here in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u52	Then I'll turn on the clock again for your speaking time. Mrs. De Boer also has an interruption. Is that okay? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u53	Maybe just one more question to clarify. I understand the struggle. In the case of a previous extension, a cabinet proposal was added on the renewal system in which it was amended. Do you see any difference as to whether this is the case with amendment or whether it is the government's doing so? I honestly do not see the fact that it lands in two different laws as a problem. But apparently you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u54	However, we can go on or be groups in favour of the extension but not in favour of the proposal which introduced the extension system. I can very well imagine that there are groups...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u55	No, that's almost an order proposal, Mr. Nicolaï, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u56	No, I'm definitely not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u57	Excuse me, I was just talking. We're gonna put a whole law to the vote here or not. You can vote for that whole law or not, but you cannot vote for or against parts. You can give an explanation of vote. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u58	That's what I was gonna say. That's how it works here. My question to Mr Nicolaï is: would your opinion have been different if the cabinet had come up with this joint proposal? I thought you said you could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u59	I think there would have been a legislative proposal that the Council of State has considered in its entirety. What we are getting now is, in fact, I hesitate for a moment, because I need to explain a few things anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u60	It's okay. I'll just turn the clock back on. Follow up on your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u61	Under the right of initiative, which the Lower House has, the Lower House can submit something and the Council of State will give an opinion on it. The same applies if the government combines two different subjects into one law, and that is the case as a whole. Then the Council of State is going to give advice on that. In the situation we now have, we are setting a precedent that a substantive change to another law is introduced through amendment that the Council of State has not considered. Then I'm going back to the Constitutional system. Then you can also say: if the constitutionalist assumes that something new can come from the Chamber, but that the Council of State should give advice on it first, then you would circumvent that obligation by inserting it as an amendment into another law. I think I just wanted to bring that up. Then I'll get to the history of this room. I go back to 2015, when the minister's colleague, Mr Hoekstra, was a member of this Upper House. Mr Hoekstra was also worried about the rest of the Chamber at the time, because I believe that the motion was almost unanimously adopted on precisely the point that we as the First Chamber are actually frustrated in our legislative function when individual legislative changes are brought before us in one proposal. Mr Hoekstra noted that there were two separate legislative proposals and that the First Chamber was deprived of the opportunity to make a separate political final assessment of the two independent legislative proposals. He also noted that this is clearly not the state-law tradition of the past decades and that this creates an undesirable precedent for the future. Mr Hoekstra asked the government to refrain from such a link in the future. The motion has been passed. Actually, I still agree with that. I think that as senators, when we look deep into our hearts, we should also support it. That's the point I'd like to pass on to the Minister. Excuse me. I'd have liked to talk about viruses and other things, but I don't know anything about them. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u62	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u63	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group also warmly welcomes the new VWS Minister to this Upper House. With regard to the most striking issue, the fight against the corona crisis, this Chamber has already had an exchange of views with the previous govern ment. Our group is already pleased to note that a different wind is blowing under the new ruler. We therefore look forward to working with this new minister. We wish him every success. Mr. Chairman. Today, too, I would like to say that, in addition to my work here, professionally as an intensivist, I come into contact with the consequences of the corona crisis. All things considered, my group does not believe that this is an obstacle to speaking here today. Mr. Chairman. The change of regime allows the government to take new steps, for example in the direction requested by our group. These steps are largely in line with the wishes expressed by Mrs De Boer on behalf of a number of political groups. This concerns in particular the transposition of temporary legislation into final legislation and the limitation of the Twm in relation to the current state of the pandemic. First of all, on the fourth extension we have before us. Of course, in recent months it has been necessary to use measures from the Twm. It is clear that our group is in favour of the adoption of this legislation. This does not mean, however, that we are without criticism of the application and implementation of the measures in the Twm, such as those taken in the months covered by the Act of Approval. But evaluation is at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u64	Now that Mr Van der Voort is standing here, I have a very enlightening question about the motion with letter E. When I just asked Mrs De Boer, I didn't have the motion in my hands. I hadn't read the motion before. The motion states that a further extension of the Twm should be limited to basic measures such as distance, mouth caps, vaccination and hygiene. In reply to my question, Mrs De Boer replied: yes, but that must be mandatory. Do I have to read it in such a way that it is only allowed to remain in it: keeping a mandatory distance, wearing a mouth cap, mandatory ventilation and compulsory washing of hands? Can't this be in an advisory form?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u65	That's the way you should see it, but I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u66	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u67	It was necessary to use the measures in recent months. Measures restricting citizens' fundamental rights. However, confidence in the government and the corona policy has been affected. In order to restore confidence in government and policy, a gesture from the government is needed. We invite the Minister to take a step in that direction. Is the Minister prepared to limit the Twm in the number of measures covered by the law by reducing the Twm to purely general measures? Earlier, our group spoke of a mixing panel with a number of sliders. The first slider is that of general measures, such as hygiene, distance, mouth caps and ventilation. They still seem important to our group to have available and to use as a measure. The second category, such as 3G, is no longer used. The other sliders I mentioned here are outside the Twm and are among others about vaccination. Of course, they remain relevant. As Mr De Boer has already argued, removing the 3G from the Twm, for example, is a logical step. Our group believes that the introduction of a new version of new legislation will lead both Chambers quickly enough. Is the Minister prepared to meet the Chamber in this wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u68	This is something new that is now being introduced. I ask Mr Van der Voort: when was washing hands required? And when was ventilation required?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u69	In my view, there have been no mandatory hygiene measures. What matters to me is that the Twm can be reduced to general measures, as far as they are now in the Twm. So I am not calling for measures that are not currently in the Twm to be included in the Twm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u70	But then I don't understand the motion. Something new is now being introduced, namely mandatory hand washing and mandatory ventilation. But it hasn't been so far. That's what you want in it. Then you'll add something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u71	No, no, no. I can reassure Mr Janssen on this point. It's not about adding anything. It is about assessing the measures currently in the Twm. According to the motion, anything that cannot be ordered under the general measures can be removed from the Twm and stay out of it. The measures that you could include under general measures could remain in it. It is therefore not a question of adding anything in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u72	But, as I asked Mr De Boer, it is about obligations. It is not intended to include advice. Until now ventilation has not been mandatory and washing hands has not been mandatory. How is it possible to get into the new Twm in the motion that is referred to as an example while it is not now part of the Twm? Then you're gonna bring in something that's not an obligation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u73	I repeat that Mr Janssen can rest assured of that. It is not about introducing new obligations. It's about getting rid of obligations that are no longer necessary. Counsel's gonna be out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u74	Finally, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u75	I am sorry, but I would like to repeat that the examples of cases mentioned in the motion that are only allowed to remain in the Twm are obligations which are not mandatory at the moment, such as ventilation and washing hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u76	My advice to Mr Janssen is to read the motion differently, as I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u77	I'd like to continue at this point. As Mr Janssen rightly points out, these are all opinions, not obligations. What's in the Twm? For example, the Twm provides the basis for the 1G measure which the cabinet now intends to introduce. On the basis of that 1G measure, at locations where 500 persons are within, everyone must be required to test. If D66 and the other authors of this motion now say that it is only about the story of the mouth caps, ventilating and so on, do they say that the 1G measure can no longer be introduced on the basis of the Twm, as the Twm does provide the basis for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u78	Mr Recourt. Excuse me, Mr. Van der Voort. I was already at the next interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u79	The motion calls for a measure such as 1G not to be included in the Twm at the time of the extension from 1 March. That's what the motion calls for. What I have just said in my speech: if, in view of the endemic circumstances, there is reason to introduce other measures, then they can be rushed through the Second and First Chambers. We have shown before that we can do this with each other. But at least it won't be a permanent part of the Twm anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u80	So we must now make it clear that if this motion is adopted, there will be no basis for that 1G measure on the basis of the Twm and no longer for the measures which the Minister now intends to put in the refrigerator, such as the corona admission certificate. That whole refrigerator can thaw immediately and, as Mr Otten said earlier, be thrown into the container if this motion is adopted. Are the proposers of this motion prepared to throw away everything in the fridge as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u81	The motion states that we will consider an extension of the Twm, where the type of measures you mention are still in place, very critical next time and will not, in principle, support it. It's up to the government to decide whether or not that fridge is being cleaned out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u82	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u83	Now Mr Van der Voort of D66 is clinging to two thoughts. We were just told that only the opinions, which are not now mandatory, can be part of the extension of the Twm. It has just been said that this 1G measure cannot be included. But that fridge, which includes that freedom-limiting corona access card, can suddenly be pulled out. Have I understood Mr Van der Voort correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u84	Mr Van Hattem did not understand me correctly. We propose that these measures should not be kept in the refrigerator, but rather that they should be removed from the Twm and only the rules on ventilation, for example. We also propose that what we have mentioned in our mixing panel the second disc, the second category of measures, such as 3G and 1G, which is now being discussed, should no longer be included in the Twm from 1 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u85	We were just talking about constitutional purity. I thought, "Should I make a point of order?" Mr Van der Voort, of course, is about D66, but the motion is about all the parties who have tabled the motion. The first applicant's explanation is decisive. Nor does my colleague know exactly what my group or the VVD Group is about. Before there are any questions about the motion now, my proposal would be to leave it with the first author in the second term, so that we can have a clear explanation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u86	I think that is an excellent proposal from Mr Recourt. Let me say, then, that the point I have just made applies at least to the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u87	I have also made this proposal to you with half an eye, Mr President, in the hope that you will be able to send it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u88	If Mrs De Boer wishes to speak on this in the second term, I will certainly give it to her. That's all I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u89	I walked before this interruption to the interrupting microphone. I will pass this on to Mr Van der Voort, who will then be able to pass it on to the person at the top of the motion as the author. It says that only if the extension is limited to basic measures, such as distance, masks, ventilation and hygiene. I'll read it if it doesn't let anything else in. I will be hearing from anyone there in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u90	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u91	Is the Minister prepared to extend the Twm for a shorter period than three months or to submit a new and more limited KB earlier than three months which meets the wishes of the Chamber? Then I come to the transposition of temporary legislation into final legislation. Fortunately, the pressure on care is now of a different size and nature than it has been in the last three months. Our group therefore believes that the time is right to formulate, in addition to a long-term vision covid, a more general policy for pandemics, including a number of scenarios. In addition to this long-term vision, appropriate legislation is needed. As far as we are concerned, it is worth considering designing a separate law against pandemics, which does have a relationship with the Wpg, but is not an integral part of it. After all, we have learned that combating a pandemic is fundamentally different from other crises. These include the structure of powers, the general measures at the heart of the fight, and more specific measures to keep infected and uncontaminated persons separate. But there could also be a framework for thinking for a balanced balance between burden of disease and open society. Mr. Chairman. We ask the Minister how he looks at a separate law against pandemics. When does the Minister expect to have converted the Twm into a form in any form whatsoever? Can we get a commitment on that? Mr. Chairman. We await the answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u92	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said by Mrs De Boer on behalf of all the other parties. We only come to a slightly different conclusion, but we share the recital. Mr. Chairman. We are in a rather special situation here, as was the case with the previous proposal for an extension. We are talking about an extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, starting on December 1st and remaining eight days, if this Chamber agrees to the Extension Act. If we vote against the extension by a majority, does that mean that the law has been wrongly applied in recent months and that the measures and restrictions have proved to be unjustified with retroactive effect? That seems to me to be a problematic situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u94	I think that's a misunderstanding, because the law ceases to exist at that time. You may be able to judge for yourself in substance that it may have been wrong, but in fact, nothing changes legally, except that it ceases to exist within 48 hours. I heard Mr Voermans, Professor in Leiden, make the same mistake and say that compensation and so on had to be paid. But that is absolutely not the issue. The judgment can therefore be: oh, then we may have done something wrong, looking back. But he's ahead now, and the legal consequences are no different than it will expire in 48 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u95	That answers a question I wanted to ask. Thank you for this correction. Let me then stick to the opinion of my group. I put it so that it would have been wrong, but not in a legal sense. Thank you for this explanation. Fortunately, in the meantime, an amendment has been adopted in the House of Representatives to prevent this in the future, after 1 March, by going back to front, and then this time heavy front. In my group's view, the Janssen motion is actually meant to be the same. For the time being, unfortunately, we are still attached to this heavy afterhang. The same applies to the possible fifth extension. Only in the event of a possible sixth extension will it be possible to colour within the constitutional lines. This means that we are still dealing with this unusual situation today: very radical measures, in which the First Chamber is actually out of play. The stamping machine, as Mr Otten calls it, is not wrong, in our opinion. What makes it extra salient is that the cabinet itself has indicated that it wants to stop most of the corona measures such as ctb, which actually indicates that the extension is no longer necessary, as we have entered a so-called endemic phase. My question is: what exactly does the cabinet expect of this Chamber? That we support the extension, because otherwise it will cause too much hassle, even though it is not really necessary anymore? As far as my group is concerned, we do not. Covid is hardly sickening because of vaccinations nowadays, the hospitals remain empty, the mortality with this omikron variant has fortunately dropped to that of a normal flu. It is therefore no longer proportionate to limit fundamental rights in this way. This can only be done if there is an absolute need for it and, as the cabinet has already pointed out, there is no longer any need for it. Finally, on behalf of our group, I would also like to welcome the Minister. We also welcome the fact that someone from the medical field is now occupying this post. We are very pleased with that. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u96	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks, and I still assume on behalf of CDA and VVD and others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna bring up the motion. It seems useful to me that there is some light in the darkness before we suspend. Let me start by saying that I am not going to give 100% clarity on 'this measure is, this measure is not'. The motion says "limited to basic measures, like," and then a list is given. I can imagine that this list will not be exactly the same for all the parties I have spoken on behalf of. But I think the essence of the motion is clear. The Temporary Law contains measures covid-19; there are no opinions. So we are talking about measures. In addition, the cabinet can give advice whatever it wants, but that is not our concern. They're not in the Twm. When we talk about basic measures, we're talking about distance. It's in 58f of the Wpg. We are talking about basic hygiene measures/personal protective equipment. They're in 58 yes. These are mentioned in particular. I must tell Mr Janssen that ventilation has indeed not been mentioned. We can delete it from the motion, if everyone can agree to it. Hygiene is subject to personal hygiene as mentioned in the Twm. So it's not about washing hands. It's about a mouth cap obligation and any other requirements you might think of. Maybe it's good to mention what it's not all about. It is not about provisions on group formation. It is not about the closure of public places, not about the closure of educational establishments or other forms of lockdown and not about corona tickets. Those are all parts of the Twm that should be out. This, I think, is the clarity I can give. If you are going to ask "it is, it is not," that will be a weighting on the details. It's not a shopping note: Cabinet, you have to do exactly this. It's a signal. I thought Mr Nicolaï's explanation of "it's a warning motion" was a very good explanation. It is a warning: Cabinet, make sure that if there is another extension, if you consider it necessary, only those basic measures are mentioned. What exactly is and isn't just across the border? It may differ from one group to another in the way they are judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u98	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Just for the Acts and for clarity, also for the Chamber. I understand from you as the first petitioner that the word'ventilation' is deleted from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u99	Yeah, I think that's gonna improve clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u100	Fine, then you don't have to file a modified motion. If the Chamber agrees, the motion has been amended in the sense that the word "ventilation" has been deleted. It's about motion 35979, letter E.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u101	This story is still not clear, because this motion is therefore referring to 'basic measures such as'. Of course, that can be extended even further. There is also talk of hygiene. That is not necessarily a mandatory measure. So if you cut ventilation, that would also be a logical consequence. Legally binding provisions are included on masks and distances. Let me get this straight. How, according to the first petitioner, does this motion relate to the 1G measure which this cabinet intends to take and the measures which would be in the refrigerator? Does that fridge actually lock and enter the container? Or does this motion still cover this subject under the heading of 'like'? How is "like" sharply limited now? That is, of course, relevant to how the cabinet can explain this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u102	I have just listed, as we have shared with these groups, what is no longer covered by 'like'. There's 1G in there, too. There are also the corona tickets. That includes the formation of groups. And that includes all the lockdown measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u103	So if it's not in the Twm, it's not in the fridge anymore. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u104	That makes it a little more clear, but I heard one of the co-sponsors, Mr Van der Voort, say: yes, we are now, of course, waiting for a law on pandemic emergency measures. What is the position of the proposers, at least the first petitioner of this motion, against such a law as, for example, with this motion and with the repeal of measures 3G and all the other freezing measures that are being pushed aside, perhaps via a back door, through that law pandemic emergency measures come back again? Is that the cardigan pocket method used with this motion? Can we rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u105	As far as I'm concerned, we can rule that out. Anyway, there's a lot of "if" in your story. Whatever goes with that and what I have said clearly in my story is the following. If we go to a permanent law, it will, in your words, have to contain the indicators on when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when measures, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when measures, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when, when,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u106	It thus creates a permanent possibility for using a corona access card or other freedom-limiting measures in the form of a permanent law. Is that what the authors of this motion, at least the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, would want?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u107	It is not what the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has in mind. But a permanent law will pass through here. We can judge them at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u108	The intention was for it to become clearer, but it becomes a little more unclear, also a little bit unclear due to the interruption of Mr Van Hattem. If I don't see it right, I'd love to hear it. We need to see it sharp. As far as these basic measures are concerned, this is only about the fifth extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u110	Exactly. So that fridge has nothing to do with it. It is only about the extension pending what we are about to get as a proposal. There may be something in there from the fridge, but that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u111	Well, then we're confused about what the fridge is. As far as I am concerned, the regulations are the measures in force and, in my view, the Twm is the refrigerator. These are the measures that we still have and which can be implemented. We say, no, there shouldn't be too much in that fridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u112	A second question. When you talk about 'basic measures', I think it is about measures that apply to everyone. These are basic measures. Now, let me introduce myself to you... that I have a theater. Then a basic measure that is 1.5 meters, the distance. But for example, the question of what time my theatre should close and whether I can occupy 100% of the seats or not, is not a basic measure, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u113	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u114	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. Then I note that there is, as I mentioned earlier, an amended motion - De Boer c.s. It is given the letter G (35979) and thus replaces the earlier motion 35979, letter E, which is therefore no longer part of the deliberations. That has now become the motion G.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u115	The motion-De Boer c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas the course of the pandemic justifies not to withhold approval for the period 1 December 2021 to 1 March 2022; noting that the pandemic has reached a next stage where there is currently little need to make use of the possibilities offered by the Temporary Law measures covid-19; noting that the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is a temporary law and final legislation has been promised by the Cabinet; Notes that the fifth extension of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, which covers the period 1 March 2022 to 1 June 2022, can only be approved by this Chamber if, in the light of an unchanged favourable course of the pandemic, the extension is limited to basic measures such as distance, masks and hygiene and the main elements of final legislation are known, and calls on the Government to take this into account, and goes to the order of the day. She gets letter G, was letter E ().
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-4.u116	I'm gonna suspend for a few moments. We will then begin with the first deadline of the proposal 35401.
