ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u1	I warmly welcome the Secretary of State for Finance for the Law Treatment Tax Adjustment Act Share Option Rights (35929). This law has already been discussed by the Chamber once before and by the predecessor of this Secretary of State. At that time, I myself participated in the debate. My input would not have been much different from that time, so when I was asked by the Registry to chair this debate, I decided to do so once. That must also be done in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u2	I give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP. He will speak for a maximum of 30 minutes, as he has indicated. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr President, I will try to do it less than in 30 minutes. Let's see if we can do that. You have already indicated: today we are discussing the Tax Adjustment Act share option rights. We discussed this at the end of last year. The outcome of the debate was that the government asked us to postpone the vote on this law, including the SP amendment to it. After months of delay, the government then sent a disappointing message that it would not change anything about this law. So she asked for the treatment to be taken up again quickly. That's why we're here today. As a committee of inquiry, we did not sit still in the interim and organised a round table to deepen our knowledge about the purpose of the law and specifically the instrument we are talking about today, namely share option rights. The SP continues to have questions and concerns about the specific instrument of the share option rights, but my party also shares the goal of promoting employee participation in Dutch companies. The SP has long been fighting for greater appreciation and emancipation of employees in our economy. For example, we are working on the Fair Sharing Act, which should ultimately make profit sharing mandatory. Mr. Chairman. There are two things about emancipation. On the one hand, the workplace is given more insight and control over the company's price and strategy, but on the other hand, employees on top of their salary automatically benefit from the profits that are made. This can be achieved by promoting employee participation. But the instrument of share option rights, which the law we are discussing today, is, in our view, a flawed instrument. Indeed, share option rights are hardly granted to people who would benefit most from them. This does not seem to be a suitable instrument for all kinds of labour-intensive sectors where there would be a great need for greater appreciation and emancipation, such as security, cleaning, customer service workers or parcel delivery. There is no company in these sectors that is thinking of making its indispensable workers co-owner. Unlike managers of large multinationals and technicians in innovative start-ups, there is still a great deal of struggle to promote co-ownership in the companies where they work. We will continue to fight that battle. The law we are discussing today therefore seems to focus on that second group: those innovative companies that want to attract highly skilled technical staff, mostly from abroad. The law does not seem to be aimed at the other group, which could use it properly: the cleaners and the security guards. Can the government confirm that that is not the target group? Such a relatively limited target group would not be a problem if, on the other hand, the law did not have any disadvantages or risks. If it doesn't, it won't hurt, you might think. But this law wasn't stopped for nothing last year. Several MPs had doubts, in particular about the implementation capacity of the Tax Administration, which is already under pressure. Several MPs also had doubts about the generic application of the share option schemes. Since the content of the law has not been amended in any way, those doubts have not been removed. I particularly have problems with the generic application of the law. It is aimed at start-ups in words, but not in practice. While it is virtually impossible for a single cleaner or security guard to benefit from this law, this is not excluded for managers and directors of large companies who already work with stock options. The SP doesn't want to open a back door for big company drivers. It will also give them an opportunity to postpone taxation in any case. In some cases it is our fear that taxation will even be reduced. The Secretary of State says that the bill only leads to a shift in the tax rate and not to a reduction in the tax to be withheld. That's right, assuming that the value of the shares can only increase during the period when they're not negotiable. But what if the value decreases during that period? Isn't the tax due going to be reduced? The financial impact of this measure therefore depends on the value development of the shares and is uncertain. In doing so, the precise effects of this law are also uncertain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you to Mr Alkaya for his speech on employee participation in a broad sense. It will be no secret that Mr Alkaya and I have different political colours. But the subject of employee participation in a broad sense appeals to me greatly. Actually, I have a question about this. I'm talking about the current bill. Mr Alkaya says that CEOs and top people in large multinationals could also make use of this. I do not see that at all, because this law postpones the tax period until the moment of marketability of the shares. Those shares are already negotiable with large multinationals. So I do not see exactly the fear or concern that Mr Alkaya is expressing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u5	In large companies, the shares are negotiable when they are quoted on the stock market, but not all large companies are of course listed on the stock market. You also just have private companies that are big in size. I would not like to give the drivers the same opportunities with this law, which is aimed at workers in start-ups, in innovative businesses. Hence my proposals to define that target group. I'll get to that later. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, a person with share option rights will not be obliged to wait to pay taxes. He is not obliged to make use of the possibilities offered by this law. That person can also simply pay the tax at the time of exercise, if the person has the money for it. If the price value is expected to increase in the period between the granting of the rights and the moment they become negotiable, then the payment of tax at the time the shares are not yet negotiable is beneficial. In other words, there is an option built into the present law. If only a possible liquidity problem needs to be solved, why not opt for a fixed time of tax payment, for example no later than one year after the shares become negotiable, without a choice? Why is it now possible to postpone taxation after the exchange market even for a maximum of five years? And if such choices are offered, why should we not focus them only on the target group of the law? Also in the explanatory memorandum and the like it says that employees in start-ups are the target group. Then why should we offer these opportunities to a wider group and thus also to directors of larger private companies? That's not targeted, is it? In short, we fear that this law will offer a range of options that are not yet available. Then it is logical that the definition of the target group should be as well as possible. The target group is start-ups, employees of start-ups. It is therefore disappointing that, despite all the concerns, the government has not implemented this definition. The government says that a demarcation based on the number of employees will complicate the execution, because then the Tax Administration must know how many employees the company has at some point in the year. That number can, of course, fluctuate throughout the year. I get that. But you can simply look at the number of employees at the end of the previous calendar year, purely to make it feasible? Then you've solved that implementation problem, haven't you? In practice, practical problems of this kind often appear to be well solved if there is political will. So to what extent is this problem really insurmountable? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Furthermore, the Cabinet, the Secretary of State, says that, at some point in time, growing companies would face the changing and less interesting tax treatment of share option rights. This would make the equity option less attractive. But that's exactly the point. After all, the company has grown at that time. In our view, that is not a start-up company, not a start-up. Workers who would then be employed there from that point on should therefore no longer be entitled to tax benefits aimed at that particular group of start-ups. You can outgrow that. I think that's exactly what I'm trying to do. Finally, the Secretary of State says that a demarcation could lead to State aid problems. But that is only a matter of informing the European Commission and asking for approval. That may take a while, but that approval will eventually come. Because if this type of demarcation were prohibited by size of business, no instrument could be targeted at SMEs. That would, of course, be insane. I do not think that is the issue at the moment either. Therefore, the State aid argument is most likely only about possible delays, i.e. delays and not delays. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? The SP is of the opinion that delimiting this law to the target audience can, and should, therefore, make the law more targeted. For this reason, the SP has tabled two amendments. One amendment defines the number of employees and the other amendment sets the maximum turnover. Workers will then be able to avail themselves of the possibilities offered by this law only if the company in which they work at the time of granting the share option rights had 100 employees or less employed, or if the company in which they work in the previous year achieved a turnover below a maximum limit to be determined. Similar definitions of employee numbers and turnover limits are already used, for example, in the definition of structural companies. I am therefore looking forward to the appreciation of the Secretary of State for these two amendments. Mr. Chairman. This law cannot be seen separately either...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u6	There is an interruption by Mrs Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u7	I'm curious as to why turnover has been specifically chosen as a criterion. Because in my head, this is what it's all about: I think this is what you want for start-ups or companies that want to grow, who have little structural resources to pay employees. But then why turnover as a criterion? Because that does not mean that there is sufficient or insufficient left at the bottom of the line. So I'm kind of looking into whether that's an effective tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u8	The main argument to opt for turnover is because it gives an indication of the resources a company has to be able to offer a competitive salary to the employees. Because start-ups often can't do that. They often do not have enough turnover to offer the employees they want to attract an attractive salary, so they do so with shares. But at the moment when a company is already large enough and therefore has enough turnover to adjust the fixed salary in such a way that the employees are also inclined to apply for those vacancies, I think they should no longer be able to make use of this kind of benefits, as stated in this law. That is why turnover has been chosen and not profit, because large companies, of course, can make little profit. The profit margins are very low. Then you have a high turnover and so you can basically pay your employees enough to attract them and offer them an attractive salary. But because they would have a low profit, they would still be able to make use of this kind of tax advantages. That is not what I am trying to do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u9	I'm struggling a little bit with the term "turnover." Whether a company is capital intensive or extensive doesn't always say something in the front. Thank you for the explanation, but I have to think carefully about whether this is the criterion on which we could make a good definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u10	I also have a second amendment. That's about employee numbers. So I have two amendments, which could both be adopted; then you have two criteria in the law. But apart from each other, they could also lead to a demarcation. The criterion of employee numbers is more sympathetic to me, but the Secretary of State says that it is a bit more complex in implementation. But I believe that both forms of demarcation would be a step forward. Mr. Chairman. This law cannot be separated from the wider context in which we as a country are really lacking in terms of the emancipation of the workplace. I started my speech with a plea for more employee participation and more profit sharing. In addition, I want to look not only at stock options for hip start-ups or the ASMLs of this world, but also at all those companies where many people work with low income or middle income. In the Netherlands, the number of companies applying profit sharing is remarkably low. Only 15% of listed companies do this. If we also look at the unlisted companies and count them, we can see that that share is even lower: that is less than 10% of the companies. By way of comparison, in France it is 80%. In France, therefore, profit-sharing is the norm, which only a minority of companies deviate from, rather than the other way round, as unfortunately is the case with us. In the Netherlands, only 4% of all shares are held by employees. In a country like Sweden it is 13% and in a country like the United States 17%. So we're behind. If you read in a recently published report by trade union FNV and SOMO that in the last twenty years dividends have grown by 500% and wages by only 50%, then I think you know where much of the inequality in our country comes from. Recent research by another union, the CNV, confirms that in our country rewards with stock options, which we are talking about today, are mainly applied to large listed companies, knowledge-intensive companies and start-ups. Moreover, it is often management and highly trained workers who enjoy it. But the chairman of the CNV also says: "Now that wages are under pressure and inflation is sky high, it is necessary that employees also benefit better and faster from the often high corporate profits." On the one hand, the instrument we are talking about today, equity option rights, has some problems with regard to the demarcation, but these can be resolved somewhat with amendments. On the other hand, it is certain and certain that this law alone would not be sufficient to catch up with our international deficit in terms of profit sharing and employee participation, because this law does not target the people most in need of it. That is why I was so disappointed with the answers of the Secretary of State to the parliamentary questions that I asked in response to the CNV's call for greater profit sharing for everyone. The Secretary of State writes: "The cabinet is in principle favourable to employee participation as a possible tool to increase employee involvement and productivity for sectors and companies where appropriate. However, the cabinet currently does not intend to encourage employee participation through tax facilities. The supply and use of employee participation is primarily a matter between employers and employees." According to the Secretary of State. In doing so, this cabinet shows how selective it is, because why is the tax promotion of share option rights, which are mainly used by managers, expats and highly educated people, a matter for this cabinet, and why is it not the broader promotion of employee participation and profit sharing? Mr. Chairman. If this unfair selectivity is not remedied, I will at least advise my group to vote against this law. We cannot accept that on the one hand we are doing something for the group that is already doing well, but on the other we are not setting anything for the group that would need it. People with lower incomes in our country deliver purchasing power year after year, while the economy is growing and profits are increasing. My belief is that our country could be more equal and our economy fairer. Of course, the minimum wage has to be substantially increased and benefits must also be increased, so that you can get back on your feet with a job or a pension. But if all employees benefit from the great profits that are made in our country and if they are treated with respect and equality within companies, then I am convinced that our economy can also function better and that society as a whole would benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u11	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second speaker of the Chamber. That's Mr. Idsinga. He will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our country has numerous examples of successful, young, innovative companies, start-ups, which have now become big players. Often they are already active in several countries. We should be proud of that. For start-ups, many people think of businesses that focus on IT solutions or something with the Internet. That's right at first. Today, however, the range is much wider. Often start-ups are drivers and they also shape important transitions that we as a country and as a world stand for. They focus more and more on climate, care, agri-food, circular economy and so on. These companies are often started by passionate people, who use their creativity and are willing to take risks, in order to contribute to that more beautiful world. Unfortunately, the growth of these companies in our country is proving difficult. Of course, we know a few examples of great successful old start-ups and old scale-ups. This is only possible in our country at the moment. In America, on the other hand, 60% of start-ups succeed in successfully growing. Where's it pinching? Starting with attracting, motivating and retaining talents that need to be recruited in the tight labour market at home and abroad. Because young companies have to turn every dime and invest every penny back in the growth of the company, there is often no money to pay high salaries. This makes competition in the often international labour market difficult. Indeed, many countries do have a special tax regime for employee options. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands state...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u13	There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u14	I was triggered by what Mr Idsinga said. It's true what he says. Start-ups and scale-ups get risk capital much faster in America than in the Netherlands. However, this also says something about the risk appetite of wealthy and wealthy companies in the Netherlands. They're just taking less chances. Mr Idsinga seems to be looking for the main cause in the recruitment of qualified staff. I think that's kind of a weird combination. That is not the main problem. We have discussed this problem of start-ups before. In fact, one of the arguments at the start of Invest-NL was that we needed a vehicle to help start-ups and scale-ups with additional risk capital. That's why we created Invest-NL. So why is there still a need for a separate, specific, complex tax regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u15	Thank you for this fair question. Nor do I think there is any solution to this problem. There will be several solutions. I was at the roundtables with representatives from the start-up world. I can't remember if Mr Van der Lee was there. Of course there are several problems, but the sector itself made it quite clear that at the moment this is one of the biggest problems that we, as politicians, can do most easily in the short term. That's why I'm so glad this law is now in place. I am not saying to Mr van der Lee that he solves all the problems, but it was pointed out from the sector itself that the lack of a proper tax regime for employee options is currently one of the biggest obstacles to growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u16	Before I became a financial spokesman, I've been EZK spokesperson for years. I've talked to a lot of companies. All companies complained about the problem of having difficulty getting qualified personnel. I'm not surprised this goes for start-ups. I've spoken to him a lot. But the specific problem of start-ups, raising risk capital, you don't solve with this route. We have already used other instruments for this. Then why do we make a specific exception for this one group, and then with a law that also applies more broadly? 'Cause you can't really define it, the Secretary of State says. This isn't an issue you have to solve through taxation, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u17	Thank you for this opinion. I say again to Mr Van der Lee that I have listened to what lives in those companies. I listened to what they ran into. Of course, all the points raised by Mr Van der Lee will undoubtedly be important. I'm not denying that either. I'm not getting out of the way either. But one of the biggest problems that start-ups and scale-ups now have to deal with is what we call good English: the war for talent. This fight is being waged both on the domestic and foreign labour markets. If you look at what the countries around us have done at those points, you can see that we as the Netherlands are just lagging behind. So we're in danger of losing that battle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u18	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u19	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is high on the European lists, even above England and France, when it comes to the number of start-ups per inhabitant. However, we are missing opportunities, as I have just said, a recent round table between representatives from the start-up sector and MPs. The biggest bottleneck, as has been said, is to offer more flexibility to these start-ups to attract and retain new people. Companies that grow hard and invest a lot often don't have the financial space to pay for new employees, whereas they often need them very much to grow at all. They would like to see a good workers' option scheme in place. In order to attract them, start-ups often offer share option rights instead of high wages. I told you. In this way, employees can participate in making the company successful in the long term, without costing money in the short term. But then it must be attractive or even financially possible for those workers to accept share option rights as a wage. The biggest bottleneck now is that there are not always liquid assets when the tax due has to be paid. This problem is removed by this law, by moving that moment of taxation a little further in time, to a time when that liquidity is there. Mr. Chairman. Employee participation is not only important in attracting and retaining people. It also provides more connectivity to the company. Research shows that it provides motivation to make the company a success. It also appears that founders of successful start-ups often re-invest their capital in investing in new companies. This is the so-called flywheel effect. For example, international data shows that stakeholders in previous successful start-ups then provide dozens of new companies. Moreover, the lack of a proper statutory tax regime for employee participation in the Netherlands has left our country behind. Where large American former start-ups provided hundreds of new companies, this is unfortunately only a handful of our most successful start-ups in the Netherlands. As we have said in previous debates, the President has already given it to Mr O'Brien, so we are very much in favour of this law. The start-up sector has been asking for this for years. And that is why we are pleased that this law is now in place. This is a first important step towards a better location environment for innovative companies. I would like to hear from the cabinet what might be even more possible in the foreseeable future to make the Netherlands more competitive. We would like to hear whether the cabinet is engaged in constructive discussions with this sector. I would also like to receive an insight from the Secretary of State into what other countries are doing in the field of taxation. I would like to hear what else might be considered in the Netherlands to further strengthen our international position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u20	You were at the end, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u21	Yeah, I was at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u22	I shall then give the floor to Mr Alkaya for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u23	Mr Idsinga spoke mainly about competitiveness. He says that business must be competitive and that such arrangements are therefore important. But it is not just the companies and the sector that are asking for such schemes to become competitive. There is even a trade union, the CNV, that says: these kinds of arrangements are also important for the fair distribution of profits. But then you should not just focus on highly skilled staff and managers, but take advantage of the entire workplace. So if Mr Idsinga asks the cabinet to come up with additional ideas and asks what could be the next step, is he talking about that broader picture, or is he still specifically talking about the managers and the highly trained staff at start-ups?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u24	Thank you for this question. I have just indicated this in an interrupting debate on Mr Alkaya's own contribution. I am talking very specifically about this arrangement and about these start-ups and scale-ups, but I also said to Mr Alkaya: I think we should have a good discussion together on the good points that Mr Alkaya has mentioned in relation to the wider discussion on employee participation. I hope that we can have a meaningful and fruitful discussion about this with each other, because his idea of working this out will not be entirely in agreement on all points, because we have a bit of a different color in political terms. So I'm happy to reach out to you in that and I'm happy to continue thinking along with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u25	That's very nice to hear. I would like to say that, of course, with both hands. Then we'll continue to talk about that. But Mr Idsinga also asked the cabinet very strongly and specifically what the next steps might be. So Mr Idsinga asked the government for more information or more proposals. And my question to him was: does he ask the government for more proposals purely in terms of promoting profit-sharing for managers and highly skilled staff, or also for proposals for that broader picture, in which we can achieve a fairer economy by, for example, promoting and facilitating profit-sharing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u26	First of all, the legislative proposal that is before us today is not just about the highest management and the highest staff; it sees, in principle, first of all, small, young companies starting up. Then the question is whether you're talking about top management right away. Often there is not much management at all in these kinds of companies. Those are just start-ups. That's just a room with a number of people who are creative; management layers are often lacking in it. But to come back to Mr Alkaya's somewhat broader point: the offer I was just talking about to discuss it constructively with him, I am doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u27	I admire the creativity of Mr Alkaya, who, from the words of Mr Idsinga, makes something that fits in with a legitimate wish of the SP and of himself, but I actually heard a different appeal: an invitation to the Secretary of State to engage in even more creative fiscal competition with other countries. I thought we'd really put that time behind us. I think this, even if it is small in size, is another example of this; we are trying to solve a real problem that lies in a very different field than what this bill is trying to solve, namely......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are going to create fiscal again something that may provoke strategic behavior among others, in a competition with others. Why do we go back on that route and why do you want to propose a lot more of that kind of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u28	Thank you for this question, because if Mr Van der Lee understood me that way, that is not correct. I am not interested in competing internationally and thereby taking the lead. What matters to me is that many countries around us where these start-ups and scale-ups are, have far more far-reaching measures than the Netherlands. First of all, it's not about taking the lead. No, the point is that we can come internationally. It is seen as a bottleneck that we do not have certain regulations at the moment. So that's a lot different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u29	You have heard that bottleneck from the sector itself, but a lot of sectors come up with a lot of bottlenecks to politicians and they have to ask themselves: is that a real bottleneck and has it been independently analysed and tested? If you say to one sector "we're gonna solve your bottleneck," where's the end? Is this not too easy to refer to a specific sector rather than a real problem, namely the availability of risk capital, trying to tackle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u30	I have mentioned in my examples a very specific sector where the problem is most acute at the moment. It is by no means the case that this bill is limited only to start-ups and scale-ups. In principle, other SMEs may also be involved. The Netherlands is lagging behind in this. Research also shows that a lot of small companies have difficulty in growing to the middle category. I have not mentioned it very explicitly in my contribution, but this bill can also make a very important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u31	Mr Van der Lee, very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u32	Very briefly, finally and perhaps in conclusion. One of the reasons is that the Dutch business community is used to the fact that if there are too many risks, they can pass them on to the Dutch government. We are going to put them back in there by creating a fiscal instrument. This is about risk capital. That's what the risks are for. As a government, we should not draw this towards us, because that would stimulate the wrong way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u33	Finally, Mr Idsinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u34	I do not know if I can fully agree with Mr Van der Lee. I think he's making the bill much bigger than it is now. We are talking about a legislative proposal that allows tax on wages to be postponed. It's no more than that. There is also hardly any budgetary impact for the State. So let's not make things bigger than they are. I think this is a good proposal in its proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u35	Mr De Jong has also reported for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u36	Sure. I hear Mr Idsinga say that this is a good first step. My question is: what is the next step?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u37	I am rather modest in this respect, I say to Mr De Jong, because this step is already very necessary and desirable. But we are not there yet, even if you see what other countries are doing on these points. We've seen the tests. They may be a bit out of date by now; they are not quite this year's. My question to the Secretary of State is actually: look at the world around us, at places where these kinds of companies that want to grow have settled, and look what we can learn from that. What other aspects could be worth considering? I do not want to anticipate this too much, because I think this is a very good first step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u38	I understand that first step, but if I understand correctly, Mr Idsinga calls on the Secretary of State to see what else is happening in the countries around us. You'd like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u39	In general, I think it's important to see what's happening in the world around us. This also determines how we will have to compete with those countries; at least we must not have any competitive disadvantages with those countries. I can't generally say "this country does it that way and that's better than the way the other country does it," but you might think of several options. One example I can give is that in some countries the rates on the options are much lower with regard to the payroll tax, with regard to this type of specific stock options. That could possibly be something we could look at further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u42	Then we'll go to Mr. Van der Lee. He speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with five quotes. "The Tax Administration is currently an organisation under pressure. Not everything can be done at the same time." "A simpler and more feasible tax system with a human dimension can contribute to a necessary restoration of public confidence." "Reduce this complexity is not easy. Many specific schemes have ever been set up to achieve certain objectives or to help certain groups of people. As a result, there is a regular lack of support for the abolition of a regime. However, I think it is important to work towards a simpler tax system and to take the first steps in this cabinet period." "I also see an important role in identifying special schemes and abolishing/removing non-effective schemes." "Finally, it is my ambition to carefully consider possible new tax regimes in relation to other policy instruments and the need for public intervention." These are all quotes from the Secretary of State I think he has now recognized them from the letter of 3 June last, in which he actually describes his ideas on simplifying and strengthening our tax regime and the Tax Administration. Yet here is another proposal. I ask him: why is the proposal here? According to the Council of State, it leads to additional complexity. The effectiveness has neither been demonstrated nor well argued. It costs at least 11 fte from the Tax Office to carry this out. Not for nothing is the Tax Administration itself, witnessing the execution test, so critical of the proposal, precisely because of the complexity of the implementation. Why are we doing that now? How does this fit in with the Secretary of State's vision of where taxation should go? GroenLinks believes that an economy in which there is much room for innovation and development is really important. We also really need innovative companies, start-ups and scale-ups to meet these challenges. But we have already used instruments to help them in many other areas. They were also much more targeted than introducing a tax regime that, because of its design, cannot be defined for a specific group of companies that we say we would like to serve in this way. Basically, you come up against state aid limits. So the scheme is actually accessible to a lot of companies. What kind of problem does this regulation provide for a specific solution? With regard to the wider problems of start-ups, namely whether they are capital-intensive enough to attract talents in the labour market, access to risk capital is much better served. How do we ensure that those who own that capital would also take a little more risk, whether they are other companies, financial institutions or our pension funds, which manage EUR 1,700 billion? There are many other ways of solving this problem than creating a new complex and fiscal instrument, which may also invite us to create constructions that we have not intended at all under the law, but which are not excluded. Do we even know whether technical workers are waiting to be paid out in this way? This kind of highly sought-after workers can also opt for well-paid jobs elsewhere, with more certainty. Does this bill really solve that problem? We also know that in the past, new tax measures have not always been used for what they are intended to be. That's what I just said. For example, we recently saw this again in the CPB report on the BOR and the transfer scheme: they are fully developed, are not effective and cost a lot of money. This means that we must try to get rid of it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u44	I hear Mr Van der Lee say very clearly: 'Are those workers actually waiting for that? Because they can also get a good job elsewhere." That's actually what he said. That's right. My question to Mr Van der Lee is: do you not think that this could be a good arrangement for smaller companies that are not yet able to pay those salaries? Because, in the end, I hope you agree with me. It's about getting the best talent you can. For some companies, this is at a different stage than for another company.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u45	Yeah, I recognize that. That is why my main point is to make sure that they have more risk capital so that they can pay decent wages. I am not at all convinced that this small legislative proposal, which I see is relatively limited, is the decisive means of solving the bigger problem, namely that start-ups and scale-ups do not get enough risk capital to get through that initial phase. I also see that we have set up other instruments against much more money, taking Invest-NL, in which I believe there is 1.7 billion for the purpose of reaching this group, with limited results. I don't really think this is the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u46	Mr Van der Lee makes it a contradiction, but I do not agree with him. I agree with him that the share of risk capital here is low compared to other countries; that is quite right. But it's not either-or. It could be and-and. I am trying to tell Mr Van der Lee that it is precisely the companies that are looking for a creative way of connecting people, talent to them. That might be priceless at the stage they're in, but that would be a little support in the back. That is not solved by just more risk capital. It's also about how you want and can finance a company.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u47	I have to think about an investigation a few years ago. Barbara Baarsma did that back then, along with Harvard University. This was an international comparative study of what makes entrepreneurs in the Netherlands exceptional. We are by far the number one in the world when it comes to thinking in cost efficiency. It's got our strength in it. It's not about taking risks and starting new things. I really think it's a much more fundamental cultural problem. I don't think you're going to fix it with a complicated and complex tax bill that might provoke behavior that you don't want at all and that doesn't touch the core of the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u48	Finally, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u49	I think that Mr Van der Lee and I do not come together when it comes to this law, but I would like to ask Mr Van der Lee what he says to those start-ups, those companies that we say 'that is the future earning power of the Netherlands' and which we all want to support. I also hear you say that we have even opened up funds for this. Those companies are looking for opportunities. This would be one of those possibilities. Mr Van der Lee says he doesn't want to. My question is: what would you say to these companies in order to attract that talent in a creative way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u50	I've said that before. Firstly, I believe that the R&D budgets in the Netherlands should be increased, including from the government. Secondly, at the beginning of Invest-NL, I advocated not working with return requirements. The reason why a requirement for profitability was imposed was mainly because of the way in which we look at EMIR criteria. As long as it's a revolver fund, it doesn't count. This was ultimately decisive, while the purpose of the fund was to help this particular group of companies. But because you're asking for a return too quickly, those companies aren't getting enough. If you change that for Invest-NL, it is a much and much more effective instrument than this tax bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u51	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u52	I need to see where I left off. Oh, yeah. It is clear to me that my group is not yet fully convinced of the usefulness and necessity of this legislative proposal. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State what is the decisive reason for him, given his recent agenda, why he is continuing to deal with this bill. Can he take care that this will lead to shortcuts for companies for which the law is not initially intended, but for which it will apply? Why are we seeking a solution through taxation to the liquidity problems of start-ups? That is the underlying problem, as the Secretary of State or the Government itself acknowledges in the documents. The execution test by the Tax Administration is also very critical. It leads to profound consequences, complexity, more discussion and procedures afterwards. It is also becoming more difficult for the Tax Administration to follow and it cannot be excluded that this leads to an enforcement deficit. Is that right? What will the Secretary of State do about it if it becomes even more complex in practice? Isn't it unwise to take this route at all? Can we not use the capacity of the Tax Administration much better at the moment for all the other urgent issues that are going on? Shouldn't a red flag, because that's what it really is, in the execution test just mean: we're not going to do this? Why does the government, in structural terms, allocate 1.2 million for the implementation of a bill that will only give taxpayers 1 million? Is that a desirable relationship? So it doesn't seem very effective. I really think we could use the time and energy of a heavily pressured service better. I have a few additional questions. Aren't there just better alternatives? Why don't we just make a tax arrangement with people who can't pay their taxes at some point? It could be. If they really have a liquidity problem at the time of the levy, then you could also settle it. You don't have to set up a whole new law for that. If the maximum period of five years is to prevent improper use and prolonged delay, I wonder, only for listed companies or for all companies. Are there countries with which the Netherlands does not have a tax treaty, which makes it possible to move here before the shares are negotiable, thereby avoiding tax? And why is it desirable to encourage the use of share option rights in more cases as a remuneration instrument? Finally. Can the Secretary of State provide quantitative evidence of the positive impact of this law on the competitive position of the Netherlands? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u53	Thank you. Mrs Van Dijk has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u54	I have heard a lot of financial arguments for why other options would be better, but I would also like to have a reflection on the opportunity to participate. How does GroenLinks look at that? Isn't it a very nice thing for employees who work with heart and soul on their product every day, as part of that company? Can't it be extremely stimulating, just for such an employee, to say: do I want to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u55	Yeah, I love that. I would also like to endorse Mr Alkaya's plea and say: do so much wider. But I do not understand why this particular tax instrument should be used for this purpose. In fact, I see a lot of risks in that. There's nothing wrong with involving employees in a company by making them co-owners. I think that's all very well. But like I said, you can also work with a payment arrangement if there's a specific problem. You don't need a whole law for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u56	Thank you. Then we'll go to Mrs. Van Dijk. She will speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the plenary debate on the Tax Plan package 2022, the Bill on Tax Adjustment Tax Scheme Share Option Rights was discussed. This adjustment solves the problem that, in exercising the share option right, there are often not enough cash available to the option holder or shareholder to pay the tax due. In the debate on the previous Tax Plan, the previous State Secretary asked the Chamber to uphold this bill, following doubts from the Chamber. I welcome the fact that these signals were taken seriously at the time and that they were looked at again. The question now is: have these questions been answered sufficiently to be accepted? I would like to start with the why of this law and then deal with the amendment to the proposal. We Dutch are proud of our innovative strength. We like to lead the way and we like to brag about it. We brag about our innovation breeding sites, such as Brainport, where patents roll off the band every day. Many of our successful companies have once started because people had an idea and developed it further. We also call that in Brabant "nice dumps." Often that happened in the back of a shed. Sometimes it didn't work out, but often the most beautiful products were born there. That "frost" in sheds still happens, although we often call them start-ups nowadays and it often happens with a keyboard. But it doesn't matter at all: innovation is innovation, whether you do it with your hands and your head, or with a keyboard, your hands and your head. We want to encourage this. So you have an idea and slowly that idea seems to be embraced by more people. You're gonna carefully take the step to the staff. Still, as a starter, you're a little stuck. You can't afford your people so neatly, and that's in a market of cramped double complicated. We also know that only 10% of start-ups actually make it. This means that the investment through participation is not without risk for employees either. That is why the CDA sees this scheme as an opportunity and we think it is right that it should be adapted to the reality of everyday life. We need to adjust the time of payment to a more realistic moment, namely when young people actually have money. Mr. Chairman. We read that it has been considered that for the moment of levying the shares actually disposed of in the course of the exercise. The Secretary of State states that this is an unnecessary breach of the system and that such a far-reaching measure also creates the risk of a long delay in charging and improper use. That's why they didn't choose this, and I follow that. We also consider reciprocity to be a great asset. That's why we understand that there's a certain amount of time to be taken care of. In short, we support the why of this arrangement and believe that it can contribute to the bonding of employees to a company. We think it is a wonderful development that you can participate in a company where you work with heart and soul every day on a new product or concept. But we also have doubts. The CDA also had difficulty with the generic application of the bill. We would have liked to see the application of the bill limited to companies of a certain size. Because the real intention of us is and was to help start-ups and scale-ups, to offer innovative, fresh businesses the chance to grow faster and more economically. We also understand the question of the parties as to whether it is possible to exclude directors-major shareholders and directors from the possibility of shifting the charging moment. However, for both options, their implementation would increase the complexity of the scheme and would increase the implementation burden. The proposed amendment will be evaluated within five years. In anticipation of this evaluation, a monitoring will be set up to assess to what extent the modified tax treatment has a positive impact on the use of share option rights as a tool to attract and retain staff. We would like to see this monitoring scaled up by size of companies. For example, a company may fall into a category of 1 to 10 employees, from 10 to 50, from 50 to 100, or in an even larger category. We would also like this monitoring to examine whether the scheme was indeed designed to allow ordinary workers to participate or, in particular, that DGAs and drivers have used it. Because the CDA is sensitive to arguments about feasibility, but when too much is ignored in practice, we want action to be taken. Is the Secretary of State prepared, if the interim monitoring shows that this arrangement is not sufficiently effective with regard to the objective of principle we are pursuing, to come forward with legislative amendments in the interim and not to wait for the five years? I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. The aim is not to make the rich richer, but to strengthen our innovative strength by giving start-ups and scale-ups the chance to make people more committed and thus maintain our competitiveness. Mr. Chairman. Then there's another afterburner. At a later stage, we will talk more about employee participation if the cabinet response to the CNV's proposals is there. Apart from start-ups and scale-ups, we also want to look at broad SMEs. My question to the Secretary of State, Mr O'Neill, perhaps this is not entirely the right person to answer the question: is it possible, for example, to allow the ESC to explore the following issues: what will reward and appreciation look like in the future and what are the needs of employers and employees? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u58	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u59	How does the CDA see the future of this bill? Is that something that should be used for a certain period of time? Or is this allowed to last forever?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u60	I find that a bit of a complicated question because I do not have a glass ball in which I can see how the labour market and the economy of the Netherlands are going to develop. But we are in favour of the principle of facilitating young, start-ups in one way or another. You are talking about risk capital; we believe that this could be an additional advantage. I think that in five years' time this evaluation will give us a great deal of insight into whether this has actually helped a lot of companies or whether it has not even been a tissue for bleeding and whether we really want to do so in the long term. But I'd really like to give it a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u61	My concern is that if you give something like this a chance and there appears to be an evaluation in five years' time that shows that it also has all kinds of unintended effects, the majority of politicians have something like that: there are also companies that benefit from it, and we have introduced it, so we go on with it. Think of the discussion we had a while ago about this transitional arrangement for small brewers. It was introduced 30 years ago, and now it is decided to renew it, because it exists and is in favour of a specific group. Once you start something, you can't get rid of it. Is it wise at all to begin with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u62	I have tried to be very clear in my speech about who we believe should be covered by this regulation. That's really for the start-ups, the scale-ups, the smaller companies. We think it is important that it is not the dgas that are going to use this, but the employees that we want to participate in. If an evaluation shows that it is totally out of the question, then perhaps we will not be sitting here with you to seriously question it. But if the objective we have now achieved is achieved, then we really want to give him the benefit of the doubt and use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u63	I also see Mr Alkaya reporting for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u64	Mrs Van Dijk herself has already mentioned the CNV's proposals and the call for wider use of profit sharing and employee participation. She said 'we will be talking about this', but of course this proposal cannot be seen in isolation; it is at most a small step in that direction. Does it share the view of the SP that this law alone is really insufficient to meet the union's call?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u65	We very much share the call that you should look forward when it comes to staffing, rewarding and what it should look like in the future. We think there are a lot of valuable ideas in that. We do believe that we need to have a broad debate and perhaps we need to let go of some of the ideas we have now to be ready, including in this area, for the future. We are very open to this discussion. At the moment, we are not prejudiced as to exactly what should be in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u66	It is precisely for this reason that I find it disappointing that the Secretary of State said in reply to my parliamentary questions: the cabinet has no intention of further considering tax measures to promote and facilitate wider profit-sharing. So for that small group of managers, start-ups, employees at start-ups and knowledge-intensive companies, but wider the cabinet is not going to do anything. Does Mrs Van Dijk agree with me that if we get to work on this, if the cabinet says 'we want to catch up with our country when it comes to employee participation and profit sharing', this cannot only apply to the group that actually needs it the least?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u67	I would very much like to start with the needs of employers and employees. We would also very much like to see how we can further stimulate SMEs. In my opinion, I gave an answer immediately to the questioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u68	Thank you. Then we will be with the fifth speaker on the side of the Chamber. That is Mr Mulder. He will speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u69	Mr President, thank you. I'm also going to ask questions and I don't really like that at all. I don't like to ask questions; I want to send more, but this is difficult today. The worst part is that many questions are actually the same. And it gets worse, Mr. Chairman. At first I listened to the SP and I thought: well, that's kind of nice. Then the VVD came up with: "It's just tax delays. What are we talking about? Something small." I agree with that. GroenLinks said that payment arrangements can also be sufficient. That too is true. Firstly, it is very unfortunate to agree with GroenLinks, but apart from that, it is also a difficult legislative proposal. I get it. I like it. It'll help. But let me ask the first question: is the current regulations for start-ups really so obstructive? Actually, the question is, how big is the problem? How many employees with share options are actually facing liquidity problems with respect to tax payment at the moment? Then I know if I should lean a little more to GroenLinks or a little more to the VVD. This is consistent: the explanatory memorandum states that the legislative amendment will be reviewed after five years. Evaluating is always good, but how is the Secretary of State going to do that? Has there been a zero reading? Does the Secretary of State know at all whether the use of share option rights has increased over five years? And how does he do that? Is that what he does in the payroll records? I'd like a response to those questions. There were a lot of questions about the size and size of companies. I agree with that. I can also say that I do sympathise with the SP amendment. In this context, I have the supplementary question as to whether the Secretary of State considers that the creation of a maximum number of employees would encourage improper use. I thought I read that suggestion from the Secretary of State in his letter of April 4th. Like GroenLinks, I would like to address the feasibility and complexity of this legislation. I agree with Mr Van der Lee. Less than three weeks ago, on 3 June, this Secretary of State sent us a letter in connection with the revision of the tax system. A whole chapter is devoted to the amount of complex tax regulations that the State Secretary himself wants to reduce. This change of law seems to be at odds with that. It requires a lot of both withholding and tax-paying employees. As has already been said, the Tax Administration itself has therefore identified the approximation of the law as far-reaching and poorly enforceable. For enforcement alone, the Tax Administration needs 11 FTEs. This means more civil servants. Then I actually agree with the VVD a little bit: we shouldn't want to do that together. Can the Secretary of State further reflect on the apparent discrepancy between this legislative amendment and the ambition to achieve a simple tax regulation that is to be welcomed? Mr. Chairman. These were a lot of questions, with an apology for that. I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u70	Thank you. It's a good thing the Secretary of State has experience in the First Chamber, because I wouldn't say anything about it. I meant the whole debate, not your input, Mr. Mulder. Finally, Mr De Jong has the floor. He will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the autumn of 2021, we discussed the issue of how to make the present law more effective. I understand the intention of this law very well. Start-ups are looking for creative and innovative ways to connect talents to themselves. Those are other ways than simply giving a bonus. But I really do wonder whether this is the most efficient and efficient way. This is mainly due to the definition of this legislation. Why should it now apply to all companies? I still have no answer to that question. That is why I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. I'll start with the employees. First of all, I read in the letter from the Secretary of State that it is difficult for the Tax Administration to determine how many employees work at a company. The question that comes right to my mind is: are there no other tax measures where the application is limited to the number of employees employed by a company? I mean, aren't those dates known to the IRS, too? If that is not the case, why is it not possible to work with statements, such as the S&D Start-up Statement? I can therefore see that companies declare that they do not employ more than 250 fte at the time of the allocation of the options. In this way, there is one award moment, one review moment. The Tax Administration will then only have to check randomly on these statements. I would like to receive an explanation from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then I read that limiting the measure leads to calculating behavior. This behaviour is then that companies would remain artificially small in order to be able to issue fiscally attractive stock options. Well, then I'm gonna have an alarm call going off. Is this not the signal that this measure invites abuse or is going to be used to the full by companies for which it is not intended? I wonder, for example, how this measure relates to the legislative proposal Further remuneration measures for financial enterprises. Isn't this the last law that's being undermined? For me, therefore, this calculating behaviour is an argument for restricting these measures to start-ups or scale-ups, whereas the Secretary of State refers to this as an argument for introducing the measure generically. I do not understand that and I would like to explain this. Can the Secretary of State explain once again what the risk of abuse is? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the state aid argument. That's pretty thin, too, if you ask me. It is said that the risk of state aid exists if we limit this measure to small businesses only. Then what I'm wondering is this. Are there really no tax measures that only apply to smaller companies? For example, what about the KIA or the SME profit exemption? These are also tax advantages, especially for small businesses. Then why would there be a risk? That it's a time-consuming process, I don't think it's relevant. In my view, it is now clear that this Chamber attaches great importance to a careful process, even if it requires extra time. Mr. Chairman. Then about dga's. I read that we are not ruling out the measure for DGAs and drivers either, because C-level employees cannot use it. I have two questions. How are these C-level employees defined? I looked into the tax law bundle, but I couldn't find the definition of it. Isn't it just dga's who also have the title C-level employee? My second question is: why is it difficult for them to have recourse to this? We're talking here about attracting and retaining talents, not tax benefits for directors, aren't we? Then there is the effectiveness of the measures. I'm stuck on that. It is said that if large companies are unable to make use of the scheme, the effectiveness of the measures will be reduced. I feel like I'm getting into a circular argument. The measure is for start-ups. We are looking for a more targeted way of using that measure, namely for start-ups only. There is now a proposal for the measure to apply to start-ups, and the Secretary of State says: this will make the measure less effective, because large companies cannot use it. Then my question is this: this measure is not meant for large companies, is it? Can the Secretary of State confirm this and explain what, in his view, is an effective measure? Finally, Mr President. As you can understand, I have doubts about the way in which this measure is now in place. I find the Secretary of State's argument not to restrict the measures lean. I also doubt the effectiveness. I am therefore a little disappointed that nothing has been done about the wishes of the Chamber, and also about the explanatory statement we are getting. I do understand the desire of start-ups to commit talent in innovative and creative ways. I don't want to ignore that too easily either. However, I would like to show here today the risks, the risks of abuse, but also the risks of non-use. After all, we have already made a tax measure for start-ups that is not being used. That is why I think it is important that an evaluation is carried out. But my question is: why does this happen after five years and not after three years? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The objectives must be clear in order to be able to evaluate properly. It is now very clear: after five years we evaluate. But what exactly do we evaluate? I would like to stress here for the evaluation that the aim is to remove the thresholds for start-ups. It is therefore important that we can see in the evaluation how much this scheme is used by start-ups and how much it is used by other companies, that we can really define this difference. After all, we are doing this for start-ups and scale-ups, when everyone will be able to use them. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State: will he undertake to make an explicit distinction in the evaluation in the use of the scheme by large companies and start-ups, and that the weighting of effectiveness only takes into account the use of the scheme by start-ups? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u72	Thank you. Mr Idsinga has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u73	Thank you to Mr De Jong for his speech. He just asked me a very interesting question, namely what else should happen in the field of start-ups and scale-ups. Are there any wishes from D66 that have not yet been appointed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u74	We certainly have wishes. We have even written a whole electoral programme about this. I therefore call on Mr Idsinga to take this very seriously. The point here today is that we think this is a wonderful sector. I sincerely also see the opportunities that we are facing together to look at: can companies that are not yet able to do so commit themselves to people? Is the tax incentive the option? That is actually what I said to Mr Van der Lee. I do have questions and concerns about that. In particular, I would like to address these concerns in this debate, with Mr Idsinga, because I am concerned. Then I'll look at the evaluation moment. If you are asking what D66's next wish is, I would very much like to have that conversation with you, with this whole Chamber, over and over again, to see if it is actually so effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u75	I'm not gonna ask for interruptions, Mr. Idsinga. Otherwise I shall give the floor to Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u76	You challenge me, Mr. Chairman. Mr. De Jong was also at the round table with start-ups and scale-ups. As far as I remember, most of the time, my memory doesn't let me down. Do I understand that D66 has doubts about that, what second thoughts, and yet is a bit involved with retreating movements?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u77	I do not think Mr Idsinga listened very carefully. I admit quite honestly that I have also done so in an earlier conversation, which I do have sympathy for the idea of the SP to look at start-ups and scale-ups to a certain number of employees. But I also have my concerns. Because is this executable yes or no? If the Secretary of State is very supportive of why it is not feasible, then I am also in favour of this law. Because this is the beginning. You called that the first step. Mr Idsinga says quite honestly: I actually want more. I'm sure I understand that, too, from the VVD. Here's what I'm saying. If this is the first step for Mr Idsinga... For us this is a wonderful point to start with. I'd like to do that right. That's what I'm standing here for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u78	I'm sorry about that last answer. I was pleased that Mr De Jong was so critical in his speech. But now he gives away that, despite all these questions and doubts, he actually intends to vote in favour of this law, if the evaluation only goes from five to three years. So let me get this straight. Then I have a question about that evaluation. The labour market is particularly tight in the Netherlands. We live in super uncertain times. The struggle for the technically skilled, talented employee is even at the beginning, so to speak. Things are gonna happen. Everyone's gonna try to get that talent with all kinds of offers. How can you give an effect to this particular proposal after three or five years of attribution? I honestly can't imagine how that works at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u79	Unlike Mr Van der Lee, I can do that. Because Mr Idsinga just referred to a round table that we had with industry entrepreneurs who said what they needed. These companies can also be asked after two or three years what they see as effects. We prefer to measure that much wider. That is what Mr Van der Lee rightly gives to the struggle for that talent. We disagree on that. Because I also like it when the small innovative companies, which we are cherishing and which we are very keen to encourage, also have the opportunity to commit to that talent, even if it is not financially possible directly in wages. I think the sector has asked very hard for that. I'm in favour of that. Mr President, I would like to say the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u80	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u81	Mr Van der Lee invites me to say that if we come to an end, D66 will vote in favour of the law. I would like to emphasise once again, as I have done in previous discussions, that D66 considers it incredibly important that we take this step now in the area of participation. I say I find the idea very sympathetic, but I'm not staring blind. If an idea doesn't work, there's a next step. If the step for Mr Van der Lee is 'nothing at all', it is too short for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u82	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u83	Still a little while. If you ask the stakeholders if anything works, they'll soon say yes. In the conversations I have had with companies in recent years, they all say: keep that 30% scheme intact. In fact, they say: allow labour migration very widely. A very large part of the Chamber feels differently about that. We should not rely solely on what a particular sector sees or wants to do. It is our job to objectively determine whether a law meets an objective that we have set and whether we are able to measure later whether it has had an effect. I do not find asking those involved an objective way of determining whether or not something works. Do you not think that this should at least be demonstrated in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u84	Absolutely. Mr Van der Lee and I do not disagree on that either. All I'm saying is you're asking me what the possibilities are after two or three years. That is also the question I am asking the Secretary of State. I really want us to be able to measure that in those companies. What I am concerned about, and I hope you will also be aware of, is how we ensure that this measure reaches those companies that I am now so strongly advocating, with those companies that I say need creative talent, but do not yet have the means to pay it directly. How do we ensure that it doesn't end up directly with all the big companies? That's where I care. One more step back: this Chamber, as you rightly say, has a long history with this bill. A majority of this Chamber has also been in favour of doing something about this now. This sitting today could be a final piece. By simply saying 'don't listen to the interests of one group of companies', you ignore, as far as I am concerned, the wishes of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u85	Thank you. We're gonna suspend for 20 minutes. Then the Secretary of State begins answering the questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u86	I give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions put to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a question that has been asked by a number of you: what is the point and the need? What's the problem? That's always the very first question you have to ask in a draft law. I think we should start with the current law. The current law allows for start-ups... What is a start-up? A start-up company. Mrs Van Dijk said that a lot of those start-ups do not end up blossoming and that they fail. Entrepreneurs have an idea, starting with that, have some money, but can actually pay little salary. For this purpose, options such as stock options, options on shares are also sought. All this, of course, is based on the idea that the start-up is successful, that value will be developed in the company and that those who are involved from the start will also benefit from it. This subject has, of course, been discussed several times in this Chamber. The current law allows a company that has a S&D declaration for research and development, the payroll tax facility, to receive an additional 25% discount on payroll tax. There's no use for that. That's not stimulating enough. In my opinion, that has to do with the fact that those start-ups can pay little salary. As several speakers have said, the previous cabinet, in consultation with this Chamber and also with the sector, has said: what can you think of? The advantage of a share option scheme is, of course, that when the option is granted, there is not much to pay for the option, especially if there is little value left in the company. The idea is that the value grows and that at the time of exercising the option, at least there is a positive difference between the value of the share you get and what you have paid for the option right. Let's say the value is €100 and you pay €10. You'll have to pay for the 90 bucks. This must be done in box 1 in the payroll tax, because there is an employer-employee relationship. That's exactly the point, I think. These companies have often not yet allocated enough normal salaries. These workers often do not have the cash to pay that tax. That's a bottleneck. Therefore, it is likely that the instrument of the equity option is not sufficiently used. This legislative proposal makes it possible for there to be a choice in that particular situation. If you have the money to pay that payroll tax, you will most likely do so immediately, because the expectation is often that there will be further value growth, especially in the longer term. If you don't have the money, then this bill will allow you to deal with the tax authorities only at the moment of marketability in the event of non-immediate marketability. That must be done after five years at the latest. That has to do with the following. Exercising the option is one. Being able to trade and then alienate it............................................................................................................................................................... This is sometimes subject to contractual restrictions, because this type of worker is often very important for the further development of the company. So there is also a binding element in that. Many companies that are listed on the stock exchange are, of course, already making use of the stock option scheme. Would they really make great use of this choice? That is also an answer to the question: do you expect abuse or misuse? I don't think so. I think that in those situations, we are talking about listed companies at the time of exercising the option and the marketability of the share, is immediately paid off by the employee. He's gonna want to cash in. It may then decide to hold or sell the shares. Then that goes from box 1 to box 3, unless there is a significant interest. Actually, I can only imagine one situation where you don't, which is if you think the stock price is going down. If you are an employee of a listed company with marketable shares, you think: wait a minute; those shares can go down. That could be a consideration to say: I'm not taking care of it now; I'm taking care of it in five years' time at the latest. It's all about planning and timing. You might wonder how realistic that situation is. Frankly, I can't think of any other situations where there would be unwanted behavior. Then there was also a question about the situation of the dga's and the bv's. A dga is a managing director-major shareholder. This has a significant interest in the e.g.; that is already in the name. A director never has any share option rights. If they want more shares, the company spends more shares. That's what dga often is about, either alone or together with other dga's. Then, of course, the situation is conceivable, which was also one of the questions that the C-suite, a chief financial officer or a chief operating officer, would not have shares in the company, but would have these share option rights. We can do that already, so that's not new. Is that what happens in practice? I think so. We don't have a complete overview of that. But there are also other forms conceivable. For example, you also have the stock appreciation rights. Yeah, what's that? That's actually that you don't get a share, you don't get an option on a share, because, for example, in a family business, we say that we keep it within the family, but we think that CFO, which is not a family member, is so important that we have it reported in profit. But you can also see family businesses doing it not only for the C suite but for all the employees, who are just doing profit-sharing, what Mr Alkaya is asking for. I admit that the Netherlands is lagging behind in terms of percentage. That's true, but it will happen. It's choices that entrepreneurs make. Taxation does not currently have any obstacles to this. This adds something for start-ups and scale-ups. If it's gonna work, then the question is... That also has to do with the evaluation and monitoring. I think those questions about monitoring are quite right. Both the Tax Administration and, of course, the sector itself will monitor this. I'm afraid to make predictions about that. I think it is certainly an improvement on the current legislation, but the practice will have to show whether it is actually being used by the start-ups and scale-ups for which it is intended. So, yes, we have to do that monitoring. We shouldn't wait until after those five years. In that case, we will be focusing very much on a very specific fiscal instrument. Is that Columbus' egg for the start-ups and the scale-ups to be competitive as well? The answer is no. I have read the letter from 2019 from the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in the previous cabinet. Of course, it's much wider. Mr Van der Lee spoke about this. Of course, the question is also: is there enough risk capital in the Netherlands to give start-ups and scale-ups enough fat on the bones to grow? But it also has to do with the talent. Do we have enough talent? It also has to do with... The colleague of Education has just presented his policy note on higher education. Are we attractive enough? Do we also train people in anticipation of this innovative economy that we want to be? In short, it is much more than taxation. That is why I am reluctant to ask all the questions about whether there are any more fiscal instruments to come up with. I have indicated why this proposal is here. I honestly believe that taxation is fairly limited in the demand for success for start-ups and scale-ups. In any case, this is a better arrangement than the existing one. Practice will have to show whether it will be used to a sufficient extent, but it will have much more to do with a different range of measures. That really is in the area of colleagues, the Minister of EZK but also the Minister of EZW. At the same time, I would also like to say something about the implementation aspects, because when I saw the bill... it was on my desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u88	I see that Mr Van der Lee still has an interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u89	It's not that I'm not interested in the performance side, you know. But when I hear you describe the history of this bill, I wonder whether you, as Secretary of State, would have come up with this initiative in time if it had not been for that history.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u90	That is, of course, a question of conscience. You mentioned five quotes from the letter of 3 June. I do not need to repeat those quotes, and you are absolutely right to say that the last thing we are waiting for in this country is more complexity. Then I'll be on the execution test right away. This implementation test clearly shows that legislation is becoming more complex. At the same time, I think that the target group, those start-ups and those scale-ups, is so small that they can still do it. I am really convinced that the big companies are not going to make use of this, because I do not see the reason. Shares of employees of those companies, which are listed on the stock exchange, are liquid instruments; I have just explained how that would work for family companies or DGAs. That is also the answer to the question of whether to introduce further restrictions, such as limiting the number of employees or excluding DGAs. Then, in terms of execution and enforcement, that piece of red flag is........................................................................................................... So you're gonna make it too complex. I understand. I understand the questions very well, but I'm a little more optimistic. I do not think that we need to restrict this legislation, because I think that practice simply does not need to do so in relation to large companies and family businesses. If we make this more complicated in terms of legislation, it will become too complicated in terms of implementation. That is what the tax authorities said, and I wrote it in the letter of 4 April.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u91	It is not quite clear to me whether the Secretary of State sees it as unintended effects and finds it undesirable that he cannot do anything about it if, in his view, the small group of large companies or certain family businesses might use it, as in the case of expected decline in prices, or that this is an objective of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u92	It is certainly not an objective of the law to encourage people to do a bit of tax planning. Again, this option is to allow the employee, if he does not have the liquidity at the time of the exercise of the option and the share is not immediately negotiable, to postpone that tax. The tax, and so we, will only be better off in nine out of ten cases if this postponement is chosen, because, as a rule, the value is of course growing in this type of company. To complete the picture: I can theoretically imagine the situation in which the company is not growing against expectations, but is falling in value or perhaps even going bankrupt. That could happen. Then the one who made the choice of postponement will have an advantage. But it has an advantage in the sense that he probably has nothing at all and therefore does not have to pay taxes. So how much of an advantage is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u93	What makes it difficult is this. We had a discussion with the previous Secretary of State on whether the Secretary of State could rule it out. If it is not intended that employees in large companies should make use of it and that C-level directors should make large-scale use of it, does the Secretary of State dare to rule it out or make the political statement that this is not the intention or that it is limited to saying 1% of all cases? I couldn't do that until now. If the Secretary of State promises that it will not be more than 1% of the cases and that he will put his hand in the fire that it will be start-ups in 99% of the cases that use them, then we already have some comfort. Then we have the history of law and a secretary of state making a political statement. Does this Secretary of State dare to state that or is it more of a premonition we should assume?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u94	It's not just a hunch. I think it is also a fairly realistic approach to how it works in practice. Again, we're talking about a listed company that gives share option rights to its employees. Which employee of that listed company will, at the time he can exercise that option, choose to postpone the tax? If he doesn't have the money in his bank account, he'll sell a few bits and pay the taxes. That's the practice. You want to rule it out by law. I do not think it is necessary, so I think that is different from Mr Alkaya's point of view. Moreover, if I did, I would make the law too complicated in terms of implementation, while we are already on the verge of implementation and enforcement. So we just shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u95	Mr Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u96	Finally, Mr President. My concern is mainly with directors of private companies, directors of companies whose shares are not yet negotiable. Isn't that what stock option rights are for? Are private company directors not rewarded in share option rights? Can we get data that doesn't occur at all? I have not yet seen any statements or data showing that this would not happen. With listed companies, I understand that, but what about directors of private companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u97	That's a very fair question. I've just gone into it, but maybe we should go a little deeper. What kind of situations are you talking about? Then you're talking about an e.g. with different shareholders. The first question then is whether those shareholders are directors of those e.g. If you have one shareholder and one director, the director-notable shareholder, then the situation is clear. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about the situation of several shareholders. If they already have shares, I don't see at all what a share option right adds to such a situation. They already have the stock. They already share in growth. Why would a share option right help there? I can imagine a situation with a driver with an e.g. who is not a shareholder but who is very wanted, for example a CIO, a chief information officer, and who simply has a good salary package, in which it would be decided that such a person would have a share option right. That often doesn't happen, because current shareholders are often, but not always, family members say: we just pay a very good salary and offer good secondary working conditions and a good bonus scheme. Perhaps there is also a stock appreciation right, so you communicate economically in the value development of the company, but in which you get no control. 'Cause that's the other side. If you give someone options on shares and he exercises them, just in such a situation where you have a few shareholders, then he gets control too. The CIO from my example has often not been hired for that at all. So, yeah, I'm actually making myself there... it'll happen for once, but still... but let's just say that it happens then and an option right is given. Then that option is exercised and someone like that gets shares. Then there's the right of choice here, too. But, yes, the right of choice is very clear. Or you pay the tax right away... Then the comparison is the same as the one quoted on the market. If the share goes up, I think it's going to be chosen to pay at the time of exercise. And yes, merchantability is, of course, always a bit more complicated with eg's. Tradeability is that you have to offer it to the other shareholders if you want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u98	We're with Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u99	I find myself in a special position to ask for an amendment from the SP. I'm gonna give it a shot anyway. The Secretary of State makes it very clear that it is complex to apply, for example, a criterion of 250 employees. The Secretary of State indicates that what was green or yellow will become red flags. I'm still trying to understand why that is. Then why are the lights on red? What makes this execution complex?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u100	First of all: that sounds very simple, as if the Tax Administration always knows at every moment how many employees there are and how much turnover there is. But it is also driven from the employee's point of view whether we want to, because we are doing this for the employee who does not have the cash. Then that criterion will be exceeded. First we're at 248 and then we're at 275. Then you deny an employee something you actually would have liked to have granted it to. I will come back later to the request for research into profit sharing, and then not just tax, I would say, but more broad. I think that the question is much more interesting how in the Netherlands, at least with the social partners, we can discuss whether participation in risk capital by employees can be further stimulated, yes or no. The request was to turn it off at the ESC, among other things, but I am not alone about that. This is also the subject of EZK's and SZW's colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u101	That is a clear answer from the Secretary of State, but we may differ on that. Because when it comes to D66, we find it nice to look at small businesses. A company of 250 employees is not a small company in our view. That's just a big company. The Secretary of State seems to have less trouble crossing that line. I might be in a different place. But let's look at the technique, because we can see, for example, that we are already using an S&D statement in grant applications. That would, of course, be a means of responding to the objections raised by the Secretary of State. He says: the Tax Administration should be able to access all this data; how are you going to measure it? An explanation could be an option. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u102	Just a little bit back to the example of the 250. I may not have made myself clear. Let's keep it simple. We'll start with a start-up with ten employees. I think we all agree that this can in itself be a very good arrangement to make that choice for such workers. But now that startup's growing. It's gonna be a scale-up. Let's just say there are 249 first-hour employees. Then we'll cross that 250-year-old line. So what are the tax consequences? Does the right of choice no longer exist? In those first years, during that growth, they have built up hugely. In short, I would like to point out that you are facing many more issues in implementation. I understand the question very well, but I myself think that we should not make it more complicated than the right of choice. I'm really convinced of that. That's a line, too. But I understand the question. In practice, it will have to be demonstrated that the monitoring and, ultimately, the evaluation will show whether this instrument actually has the effect that we are aiming for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u103	Mr. De Jong, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u104	The disadvantage of asking for a SP proposal is, of course, that the SP itself comes directly to the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u105	It's kind of moving around tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u106	I understand very well what the Secretary of State says. The Secretary of State is right to state that there is a problem. What if that start-up does exactly what we want, namely growing, making many people work and ensuring future earning ability? He outlines the problems in the implementation. So far, so good. But does the Secretary of State also indicate that the Ministry's wish is to focus on small businesses? My fear, and I will be honest with you, is that soon private companies, unlisted, with a lot of people employed, will make massive use of this arrangement, while, when it comes to D66, it is precisely the situation that the Secretary of State outlines: a small start-up will successfully be a scale-up and goes on. That's our intention. I hope that intention will also be shared by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u107	That intention is fully shared. I also explained this, at least trying to explain when we were talking about usefulness and necessity. I am making a slightly different assessment of which other companies are going to make use of this. I understand that question very well, by the way. But I have indicated that both for the listed ones, but also for the larger ones, especially for the latter, the provision of stock options... I have seen it very little in practice, because there are many other aspects to it, namely also control. If I've seen anything, it's more in the atmosphere of stock appreciation rights. But here's what we're gonna do. If we were to see that development, therefore, this monitoring is so good, then we find that this bill falls down on a group that we say is not meant to be. Then, of course, we must act as legislators, in good dialogue, of course, between government and parliament. I'm sure of it, but I'm not gonna put a bottle of wine on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u108	Mr Alkaya, because it concerns his amendments, or one of them, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u109	The Secretary of State is going to give the amendments an appreciation, so I hope he will be a little more specific, because he was just talking about 'what if a company grows and then passes that barrier at some point', but I specifically focused my amendment on the time when it was granted. So you're looking at the moment of award. At that point, the number of employees is simply fixed. So if a company were to grow and grow through a barrier, it would only apply to the situations after that. However, I do not think that there are any unclear legal situations, so I hope that this will be taken into account in the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u110	Can we get the appreciation right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u111	Yeah, that's the idea. It's possible. Mr. Chairman, I have those in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u112	Yeah, exactly. 'Cause I think we're already at half or three quarters of the discussion, so why don't we just do that right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u113	Yes, thank you. It concerns the amendment to limit the application of the new measure for share option rights to companies with up to 100 employees. I have just explained that we chose this generic measure to reduce the complexity of the measure. This amendment results in the growth of the company leading to a different treatment of employees, depending on when the option rights were granted. The delineation problems that this entails make the scheme more complex for both the Tax Administration and the employer. The quickscan carried out by the Tax Administration has also shown that it is no longer considered feasible. The proposed condition also has a negative impact on enforcement. It also means that the measure cannot enter into force on 1 January 2023 because we have to submit an aid application to the European Commission. The Cabinet also does not share the fear that the proposed measure is going to be listed, but I have just explained that toy for the stock exchange, and considers that the proposed restriction is unnecessary from that point of view. The cabinet therefore continues to prefer the generic measure. I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u114	Then the amendment to item No. 8 dissuaded. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the motion for a resolution That's the revenue-related amendment. I assume you have the amendments together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u115	Yes. These are, in part, the same arguments: a generic measure, precisely in order to reduce complexity, the problems of demarcation, a negative effect on enforcement, and we have to go to the European Commission. The cabinet does not share the view that there are no employees with limited financial resources in companies with higher turnover. These workers also benefit from the legislative proposal. The cabinet therefore continues to favour a generic measure. I don't recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u116	Okay. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 11 has been dissuaded. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u117	Finally, Mr President, it is clear what the Secretary of State says. In the last amendment, the Secretary of State makes it very clear that the aim is also to help workers in large companies. That's when the delineation goes wrong. Then, apparently, the objective of this law is not just to help start-ups. Then we should be honest about that. That's where it goes wrong. It's being pretended to be very limited. The Secretary of State argues from his experience and his judgment that only start-ups would use it. But in dissuading the amendment, he then makes the argument that it is also nice that employees in large companies who are in this kind of situation would also benefit from it. Then we get a diffuse image.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u118	That's a very fair question. I should have put it better. We're talking about start-ups and scale-ups. Scale-ups are bigger companies than start-ups. The problem of liquidity also arises in scale-ups. Once again, I am not talking about listed companies and multinationals. I'm not talking about the bvs either, but now I'm repeating myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u119	Mr Van der Lee has been standing by to ask a question for some time. Then I'd like to continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u120	I get that. I was still at the level of usefulness and necessity, but we have already entered the depth of the law. I wanted to give some space to that. I asked the Secretary of State a question of conscience. Implicitly he said: I would not have given it a priority at this time. That law is there now. He's been a fiscalist for many years. I wonder if there had been no alternative, a very simple one. If, in practice, an employee does not have sufficient liquidity in a start-up, why can we not make a payment scheme instead of creating a very separate law that cannot be tailor-made precisely for the sake of execution? Because that makes it even more difficult in the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u121	Mr Van der Lee had also asked for this in the first term. I'd have come back to that, too, but I'm answering it right now. We've taken that seriously. We have also described in the letter of 4 April why there is no payment system in the situations in which there is no payment system. The Tax Administration really is not in favour of that, because that is what the Tax Administration considers to be far too real. After all, it's a piece of customization that you have to deliver. You could also think of a conservative attack. Of course, we know of a conservative attack, including in the case of emigration abroad by significant stakeholders. This is incredibly complicated and difficult to follow. I can imagine anything from a legislative point of view, but I do not think that will be embraced by Mr Van der Lee. We had a very simple arrangement until 1999. At the time the option was granted, the fictitious value was set to 7.5%. That's what you paid taxes on. Subsequently, at the time of exercising the option, the tax authority was no longer interested in what the value of the shares was, at least, for the wage charge. Of course it will shift to box 3. But I think you're gonna miss a lot of taxes compared to the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u122	You have already answered a whole package of questions in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u123	Yeah, exactly. I'm going through it real quick, Mr. Chairman. I answered all the questions related to the monitoring, effectiveness, S&D, utility and necessity, the start-ups, the scale-ups and the remuneration tool. There were also some questions about the competitiveness of the Netherlands. I've already said something about that. It really doesn't just depend on one clearly limited tax measure. I have also indicated that we actually have a lot of fiscal instruments and that you need to find solutions in other areas, but not in the area of the Secretary of State for Finance. I will pass those questions on to the ministers of EZK and SZW. Then the point was also raised of... Let me see exactly how the question was asked. What are you doing with those five years? Those five years are really hard. Those five years are actually five years old. Of course, pleas have also been made to do it longer. There is one exception, namely if there is a longer legal deadline. I believe that Mr De Jong referred to the legislation in the financial sector with regard to remuneration and the retention period. This concerns the law that has just been passed in the First Chamber. In addition, it happens to be five years. Anything that is contractually longer than five years is a pity. Those five years are just hard. Then you're gonna have to pay for it. There has been no cost-benefit analysis of this bill. Mr Van der Lee talked about the structural cost of 1.2 million, while it only produces 1 million for the taxpayer. I'm just saying very honestly that that hasn't been a consideration. Then I'm through a lot of these questions, I guess. A number of other questions have been asked. I have already dealt with the large companies, the enforcement deficit and the employees. Mr Alkaya indicated that it would only be for managers and senior staff. You don't have to do that. Only, that depends on the employer. It is true, in the end, just at start-ups, that the pioneers of the first hour all communicate. As it continues to grow, you often see with these kinds of companies that they let all employees communicate in success, if there is any, of course. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Van Dijk's question. I would very much like to discuss this with SZW's colleague. I think it's in that area anyway. Actually, she already indicated that. That has to do with the whole instrument of profit-sharing; for that I also look at Mr Alkaya. France has a much higher percentage, but at some point it has also regulated it legally. That's a political choice. That is not what we wanted in this country. I would like to pass on the question of a comparison to my colleague from SZW. Mr Alkaya quoted my answer and said that that sounds a bit persistent. But especially in view of the arguments of CNV and the huge cuts in the current labour market, I can imagine that it makes sense to put all the pluses and minuses together again. I'll give you my word. I believe that Mr Idsinga had asked for an international comparison. It was done by an external agency last year, so there is that report on tax facilities in other countries. But you know how I feel about it. Mr President, that is all I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u124	Thank you. I see Mr. Alkaya getting up. This means that a question has remained as to whether he still has a burning interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u125	I'd like to see if I can make the Secretary of State's commitment a little more specific. He says, "I want to see if I can sort out the pluses and minuses of that kind of arrangement." But there are therefore trade unions that have already identified very specific tax obstacles and so on. They already have an idea of what should happen. In reply to my parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State has indeed said that this is the case with the share option rights, and we are not going to do anything else. Does he nuance that a little bit now? Could there be more from the cabinet? Could we at least identify the obstacles currently experienced by employers and employees? Or is it more of a theoretical exercise of what the advantages and disadvantages of profit sharing are?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u126	As I said, I'd like to discuss it with the Minister of SZW. The Minister is also working on a comprehensive analysis of what else we, as a government, could do. That's a very comprehensive analysis. It's not finished yet. Several cabinet members are involved. Taxation is also a part of that, but it goes much wider. It is also a question of whether and how to continue working after the retirement age, whether or not to encourage bonuses for people with a full working week and so on. Now I'm just going to give you a few examples. If Mr Alkaya is okay with it, I would like to make his request, as well as Mrs Van Dijk's, explicitly to the Minister of SZW. I think that can very well be taken into account in the broader analysis she is making on behalf of the cabinet. When it is completed, the debate will be held with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u127	Well, then we've come to the end of the first term of office. We will proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber. I call Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u128	Thank you, Mr President. I want to go straight to the last one. Reference is made to the Minister for Social Affairs. I understand it's part of her wallet, but it has so much more to do with it. I've been talking about emancipation in the workplace. In this area, the Netherlands is lagging behind in certain parts of the world. I do not even think that it is well enough arranged in those parts of the world. As a socialist, I would like to go a few more steps in this direction. In any case, I would like us to catch up with the rest of the world. I am therefore pleased that the issue of profit sharing and employee participation is somewhat covered by this law, but above all by things that happen outside this Parliament. I would like the cabinet to look more seriously at this, not only because of the tight labour market, but also because of the broader idea of the emancipation of labour. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas profits and dividend payments, on the one hand, and wages, on the other, continue to vary;]] [[believes that employees should benefit from the profits generated by their work, and that this can be organised in different ways in practice, for example with profit sharing or shares;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is far behind;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to consider and inform the Court of Justice of obstacles to making profit-sharing schemes more accessible to all workers, whatever their form;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35929/12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u129	Why am I making this motion specifically in this debate and with this Secretary of State? I do, because the picture is that there are a lot of tax obstacles to applying this at the moment. That is why my expectation is that if the Secretary of State were to speak with the social partners, so if he were to speak not only with his colleague in the cabinet but also with the trade unions and the employers, he would also come up with new insights and then perhaps come back to his statement he made in reply to my parliamentary questions, namely that nothing else should be expected from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. As far as the demarcation is concerned, we simply do not agree with the Secretary of State. I am, of course, sensitive to the argument of feasibility, and I also realise that my amendments make it more complex. But by not defining it, the Secretary of State, like his predecessor, admits that it could also be improperly used in a few specific situations. I'm not getting a sense of the extent to which that will be the case. I want to prevent that at all costs. I want that ruled out on the left or right. If that is not possible in the law, then with political statements that, for example, there should be only 1% abuse among directors of e.g. I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning, but it's not regulated by the law and I don't get a firm political commitment either. That is why I maintain my amendments. The other arguments have already been exchanged in the course of the debate, for example that state aid is a question of timing. Then it doesn't go into January 1st. My amendment states that it can be settled later by royal decree when the law enters into force. So that's already addressed. Thanks for the appreciation. Thank you, too, for answering our questions. I am curious to see how the vote will take place. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u130	Thank you. I call Mr Idsinga. He speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the careful answer to the questions that live understandably. I would also like to thank my fellow Members. I think we have had a good substantive debate with each other. I have one motion to support the government in terms of a good locational climate for start-ups and scale-ups. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas relatively few start-ups are successfully growing in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the measures contained in the Tax Adjustment Act, to further clarify what more is being done by a number of relevant tax or other countries in relation to start-ups and scale-ups;]] [[further invites the Government to outline a number of further policy options on this basis in order to further strengthen the locational environment for start-ups and scale-ups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Idsinga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35929-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u133	Is the motion handwritten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u134	Yeah, handwritten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u135	What more do we want on Tuesday night? I call Mr Van der Lee. He speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Secretary of State, who is defending a bill that does not come from his own body and may never have been presented by him if there was no legal history. My problem is two-fold. It's about usefulness and necessity. I really doubt that one. See also what has been added to the workload of the tax authorities in the past year alone: all the complexity still attached to the compensation of the supplement parents, the compensation to be added to that for the people who have been affected by the FSV list, the compensation to be given for the repair in box 3, all the plans we have in relation to the revision of the tax system. See also the letter of 3 June from the State Secretary himself. When I look at all the tasks and priorities there, I simply do not think it is wise to add another piece of complexity for a specific group which, for implementing technical reasons, we cannot put in very detail in a law. I sympathise with the amendments, but I also have a bit of a dilemma that if I support them, which I think I will do, the problem of implementation will become even greater, while I doubt the usefulness and necessity of this measure. I also find it very much an end-of-pipe solution, while there are other problems that are not being addressed. I have already told you that when it comes to Invest-NL and other instruments that could be much better able to do something for these companies if we change some things there. But there is another point. I am also sympathetic to the SP motion. But the competition in the labour market will become more acute every day. The task of the government is to ensure that the labour supply of well-trained staff grows. I see this as a priority for the government, and not the design of specific tools for specific components to give employers in that labour market an advantage in a competition that is much wider. I don't think we should go that way. I see this measure more as one of those. As a result, the complexity of the instruments that exist to attract workers increases even further. This does not make it more transparent, neither for employers nor for employees. From that perspective, too, I have real doubts whether you should introduce this at all. I think I'm going to advise my group not to. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u137	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Dijk. It shall speak on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and for giving my last afterburner to his colleague. This was about the exploration by, for example, the ESC of how rewarding and appreciation will look in the future and what the needs of employers and employees are. We discussed the monitoring in detail in the reply. I also understand that certain things can't be done, but I'm gonna try anyway. That's why I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal will review the measure within five years of its entry into force and that, in anticipation of this review, the impact of the measure on the deployment of share option rights will be monitored;]] [[Whereas this measure aims to support, in particular, start-ups and scale-ups;]] [[calls on the government to distinguish between 50 and 100 employees and more than 100 employees in the monitoring of the effects of the measure on the use of share option rights in the size of companies, for example 1 to 10 employees, between 10 and 50 employees, between 50 and 100 employees and more than 100 employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal will review the measure within five years of its entry into force and that, in anticipation of this review, the impact of the measure on the deployment of share option rights will be monitored;]] [[Whereas the main purpose of the measure is to ensure the participation of ordinary workers;]] [[invites the government to include in the monitoring whether this primary objective is being achieved and if this objective is not achieved, to present proposals for amendments in the interim,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35929-14]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Inge van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35929/15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u139	Why do I submit these two specific motions? If we're gonna monitor, we're gonna want it to yield what we want to know. I am very afraid that, if we let go of it, we will say to each other in a few years' time: we would have liked to know this more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u140	Thank you. Finally, Mr De Jong has the floor. He speaks for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u141	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that today we are also giving start-ups and scale-ups more opportunities to commit or retain talent with these legislation. I also reported to the Secretary of State tonight where the concerns for D66 are. What about the companies that are getting too big? What are the possibilities for that cap on those 250 employees? Mr Van Dijk of the CDA also mentioned this evaluation. I'm really worried about that. That's what it's all about. It's been five years on the wrist. The Secretary of State also makes it very clear that one can sit on top of it and that one does so. That's good. But I still have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act requires that policy proposals be provided with an explanation of policy objectives;]] [[noting that this leads to better evaluations;]] [[Considering that the Tax Adjustment Act aims to reduce the threshold for start-ups and scale-ups to provide share options as a wage;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out the review under this law three calendar years after entry into force;]] [[calls on the Government to distinguish in this evaluation between start-ups and scale-ups on the one hand and larger companies on the other which use the scheme;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly consider the use of start-ups and scale-ups when weighing the effectiveness of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Romke de Jong.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35929/16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u143	Thank you. Then we'll suspend for five minutes, because five motions have been tabled. Then we continue with the answer and the opinion of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u144	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the verdict on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u145	Mr. Chairman. First, the motion in part No. 12 by Mr Alkaya. I'm really basing myself on the operative part. It says "obstacles." This does not focus on tax obstacles. So that's wider. Then I would suggest that he continue the motion, because I really want to put it with the Minister of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u146	Mr. Alkaya steps to the microphone and says...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u147	Then what am I waiting for when I hold the motion? That's kind of the question. I would like to make it 'tax barriers', because that is what I mean by 'tax barriers'. If the Minister for Social Affairs is prepared to include these tax obstacles in what she is already doing, I would like to have some confirmation of that. I'm not gonna hold the motion without an end point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u148	I understand that "obstacles" are fiscal barriers and that the amendment is amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u149	The motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u150	Sorry, the motion, yes. Excuse me. I have just said that, subject to this draft law, I do not see any tax obstacles at the moment. As the motion has now been formulated, I therefore dissuade her, because I found it charming to see the obstacles a little wider. Then the Minister of SZW could have taken a good look at this, also in the context of the analysis she is making.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u151	Now you're even further away from home, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u152	So here's how it's gonna be. Either I submit a motion that is not going to change at all what the Minister of Social Affairs is doing, or I submit a motion that would change what the Minister of Social Affairs should do, because it will be extended to include tax obstacles, and the Secretary of State says: then I advise against it. Yeah, well, then I'm not gonna change anything. Then the Secretary of State must also be so honest as to say: in any case, we are not going to do anything else than we were already planning. That's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u153	So the operative part stays the way it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u154	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u155	Then my advice is "hold on," but... Okay, then I say dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u156	The motion in part No. 12 has been dissuaded. We're going to the motion in part no. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u157	The next motion is that of Mr Idsinga on item No. 13. There too, the opinion is 'hold on', because I really want to discuss it with the Minister of EZK. There is, moreover, a debate on establishment policy next week. But there are also a number of other times when that can be discussed. So that's my advice or appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u158	Partly, I understand. Part of my question is in the field of EZK. But it is also partly in the field of taxation. Does that mean I get an answer to my tax question through the Minister of EZK?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u159	That's a fair question. I'm gonna answer it together with her. But I need a moment to discuss that with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u160	Thank you. Then I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u161	At the request of Mr Idsinga, I propose his motion (35929, No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u162	The motion in part No. 14. Because in the operative part it says "for example" and we are not pinned on it, I give that judgment Chamber. I propose that the next motion, the motion in part No. 15, given what I said about this in the first period and what is also in the explanatory statement. The motion in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u163	Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 15? No? Neither did the petitioner. It'll be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u164	I have to ask that constitutionally, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u165	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u166	The motion in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u167	The motion in part No. 16. I really have a problem with saying now that we are going to do that evaluation after three calendar years. We're gonna monitor, but an evaluation earlier than five years isn't gonna work. I also said in the first period that we will take this monitoring very seriously. I advise against it as it has been formulated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u168	The Temporary Commission for Implementing Bodies recommends, for example, that a reflection test be carried out after one year. If I replaced the word "evaluation" with "a reflection test after three years," would the Secretary of State be inclined to give the motion judgment Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u169	I think we're really talking about the same thing. I listened very carefully to the Chamber. I haven't been able to convince everyone of that. But there is a certain fear that it is being used in a way that is not intended. So that monitoring and reflection is in there. I have also said that, as soon as we see that, for example, we will come straight back to you. But I wouldn't want to record it in calendar years. We just come back very regularly. But let's not pin ourselves on those three calendar years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u170	I do not share the views of the Secretary of State. The motion consists of three aspects. One aspect is the three-year deadline. I have suggested to the Secretary of State to turn that into a reflection test, as the committee suggested. Can the Secretary of State reflect on the other two points in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u171	Yes. "In this evaluation, the government requests that a distinction be made between start-ups and scale-ups on the one hand and larger companies on the other which make use of the scheme." Yeah, that's what I said in the first term. So that's what we're gonna monitor. I also said that this also applies to the start-ups and scale-ups. "In order to weigh the effectiveness of the law, the government requests that explicit consideration be given to the use of the start-ups and scale-ups." Yeah, that too; that's part of the reflection. So if the amendment is amended in the sense proposed by Mr De Jong, then I say: judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u172	I see from Mr De Jong that he is making an amended motion, with reflection in it. The Secretary of State has therefore changed his opinion in the opinion of the Chamber. Then we're through, I guess?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u174	Then we have come to the end of the second term of the Secretary of State, on the part of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-tweedekamer-25.u175	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence in the Chamber and for answering the questions. I would like to thank my fellow Members very much for their input. I shall close the sitting on Tuesday 21 June.
