ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u1	It is now the subject of the legislative proposal 35967, the merger of the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the constant irrational urge for scaling up, three Dutch municipalities are now being sacrificed on the altar of administrative power, while in these municipalities there is not even a real problem with administrative power. The reclassification advice also states: "The municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne are all well able to organise adequate services towards residents. Customer satisfaction surveys among residents also show this. Each municipality is also well positioned towards regional and social partners. For example, in 2014 Westvoorne, in 2016 Hellevoetsluis and in 2019 Brielle was named the most SME-friendly municipalities in South Holland." At the end of 2014, it was decided to investigate extensive administrative cooperation between the municipalities of Voorne, as administrative cooperation in the form of a reclassification was not yet negotiable. In these few years, there have been no entirely unforeseen new developments. But in the reclassification advice, the higher powers are called upon to make it a problem: "The world around us is changing, for example, in terms of climate, population composition and digitalisation." [[Sentence could not be parsed: Daarbij gaat het om — ik citeer wederom — "het verder decentraliseren van taken naar de lokale overheid en/of het beleggen van nieuwe opgaven (zoals rond energie en klimaat) op lokaal niveau."]] It concludes: "However, municipalities also face challenges that are currently more difficult to fill in, in particular on sustainability, energy strategy, housing and positioning in larger partnerships." Three municipalities are now being cleaned away for this purpose. Those who oppose climate ideology, with their winds, scaling, globalisation and society-destructive mass immigration, are dismissed as a heretic by the administrative elite. Anyone who deviates from these political mores is seen as a common populist, as a tock, or a bum. In the sixteenth century, the elite also spoke of our Dutch rebels in such terms. "N'ayez pas peur, madame, ce ne sont que des gueux," would have said De Berlaymont to the governor Margaretha of Parma. "Don't be afraid, ma'am, they're just lowlifes." Geuzen, huh? That's where our water geuzs derive their nickname, which this year exactly 450 years ago, on April 1, 1572, took Den Briel. And right now, the municipality of Brielle is being deprived of its independence, not to be seen as a climate chain. "Sustainable together" becomes one of the new motto's, which is sealed with two megawind turbines at the Brielse bridge. Another translation of "geus" is "beggar." Does this reclassification prevent the new congregation from being condemned to the begging staff? Not at all, as it turns out. A reclassification at Voorne will not solve the pressure on the finances, is literally in the opinion. According to the province of Zuid-Holland, the financial position of the three municipalities is a focus. The three municipalities have difficulty in making the budget structurally sound. But the reclassification doesn't solve this. I quote again: "For the new municipality of Voorne, the financial position is also a focus. (...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u4	Is it true that the municipal councils of these three municipalities have said all three: yes, we want to be merged?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u5	That's right. In fact, I believe they have said that unanimously. Only, they didn't ask the people. They have not held a referendum among the people to see if they support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u6	Is it true that the municipal councils representing the people have said: we want to become one municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u7	In fact, they said that unanimously. Nevertheless, as I indicated, they did not ask their own people. Our point of view is always: when you move to a municipal reclassification, there must always be a popular consultation among the population to see if they want to abolish, merge, merge, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u8	The municipal councils have now said: we want to go together with the three of us. Then it is not imposed from above, as you claim here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u9	It may not have been imposed directly from above, but all kinds of climate assessments and other matters of state are imposed on municipalities, which therefore feel more or less forced to take such administrative steps. That's actually underneath it. Okay, Mr. Chairman. The opinion also states: "A movement had to be set in motion towards a society in which people look at each other more than now and in which the government is closer to the inhabitants." With this scale, however, one literally and figuratively gives away from the inhabitants. The service is now seen as good, but according to the housing vision Voorne aan Zee will soon receive only one location with municipal offices, in Hellevoetsluis. The municipal offices in Brielle and Westvoorne will eventually close. Officials are also being taken away from their own office, their permanent place of work, in order to unleash an overly hip concept of hybrid works. I quote from the housing vision: "Where employees are now used to owning their own closet with archives, they will have to digitize them as much as possible depending on the function." This is in line with the wishes of the workers, and is this really beneficial to the service, or is it just extra red tape, which is at the expense of quality and job satisfaction? In addition, this merger is going to result in an expensive renovation of the municipal office instead of cost savings. I quote again: "For the short and medium term, however, the location of Hellevoetsluis needs to be adapted. In general, the Hellevoetsluis site should have a more open, transparent and sustainable appearance. It will be more than today a town house, with a suitable council room, flexible work and meeting facilities, a window and service square and a multifunctional restaurant." In short, that has everything in the house for another expensive renovation. Can the Minister state what the cost of this joke is and whether the supposed benefit of the merger is partly offset by it? It is also stated: "However, in the further development of the housing vision plans are being developed to give the city office in Brielle and the town hall of Westvoorne a different destination." Can the Minister rule out that the Empire is going to advance these released government buildings to facilitate the asylum invasion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u10	It is well known that my party is a strong supporter of referendums. We're trying to do that, but that's not going to work. We usually have the PVV on our side. Can Mr Van Hattem explain once again where, if three municipal councils unanimously agree that something must be done, he gets the wisdom to say: and yet that is not right? Has Mr Van Hattem himself held a referendum in the relevant municipalities? Or is Mr Van Hattem angry that the people of the municipalities in question did not first seek advice from him, such as: can all this be done, Alexander? If you are in favour of democracy, let us assume that we are both. You're, I thought, a local representative in the city council, the county and here. So can you explain again what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u11	We are in favour of as much direct democracy as possible. In the case of a decision in principle to abolish, merge or split up a municipality, which is also a community of the population, the population itself should also be directly involved. The population must have a direct say in this. Then you can say it's up to the city council, but in municipal reclassifications we've often seen enough that after council elections there's a majority that doesn't want it, or the other way around. That's a lot of shoving. It is just important to give the people the final say in the end, because this is about their congregation, their community, their past and their future, which they have to deal with. This is so serious that it is important that they have a direct vote on the establishment. That is why we say: referenda are always necessary in the case of a municipal reclassification, even if the city council is in favour of it, because that does not matter. The citizens must ultimately be able to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u12	Mr Van Hattem says: they must. But perhaps the residents say: we should not do anything, not even Van Hattem, because we did not ask for it and we have chosen a city council. If they agree unanimously, I'm sure they'll be fine. Have we seen any demonstrations? Have we seen a new fleet of watergeuzen, whether French speaking or not, landing at the gates of Brielle? Or did the people in the communities in question say: it is good, you have chosen and we must ensure that it is done? How can Mr Van Hattem say: whether people want it or not, it always has to be? That sounds a little authoritarian, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u13	We are being asked here as a parliament to make a choice. I say that I do not want to make that choice about the backs of the inhabitants of the relevant municipalities. They must have a say in this. There are half-sleep surveys being conducted by these municipalities. There's never a clear option in that. It never says, "Do you want a reclassification or not?" No, it says: what do you think is important in municipal cooperation? So people don't have a real choice. The results of these surveys are then included in a report somewhere: look, we have a survey and these points have been scored in it, so we can go through. Many of these municipal councils also think: it is convenient for us, because it is also easier for us to work together on a slightly larger scale in terms of party politics. This is not always in the interests of the individual citizen. That individual citizen will have to go from Rockanje to Hellevoetsluis to deal with his municipal affairs there. Or he won't be able to go to the city office in Brielle himself, but he also has to go to Hellevoetsluis. These are matters that literally lead to politics being given away from the citizen. You're also gonna get less council members per inhabitant. The link between citizens and politics is thus further drawn apart. Then I say: just take the step to ask the citizen directly whether he is for or against such a municipal reclassification. Then everyone knows what he's up to. If the majority is okay with it and wants to do it, then you can also make that reclassification easier. For example, they held such a referendum in Grave a while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u14	I think the answer is more than enough by now. You also have the rest of your term. I won't ask if you're satisfied, Mr. Kox, but this was a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u15	I find it extremely interesting that a champion of direct democracy says: direct democracy will be so immediate that whether they want it or not, they will speak out on this. Whether they have done so through municipal elections or have said that they are going to demonstrate for something else because they are okay with this, it doesn't matter. The PVV says: you will vote on this, even if you do not want to. I find that an interesting version of direct democracy. I've always understood it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u16	Now Mr. Kox is putting words in my mouth, for I did not say, 'You will go to the vote'. There is no obligation to vote, not even in a referendum. People can also choose to stay at home. But the point is that when a city council election takes place, a redeployment plan is often not on the agenda. That is something that has to be decided on a lot of times. Only then does it pop up in one go: we are going to redeploy! Then the citizen also had no direct control over this reclassification. But people also often vote on certain parties because of other considerations, not only because of and reclassification. It is precisely for this reason that it is useful to hold a referendum, specifically on this reclassification and on the future of their congregation, their community. They have a direct voice in that. That is why I remain of the opinion that is the best way to test this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u17	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u18	I need to see where I left off, Mr. Chairman. Before a reclassification is made, I happen to come to the previous point: 'The inhabitants of all the municipalities concerned should be able to express their opinion in a referendum.' Now that hasn't happened. The support is assumed on the basis of a participation process in which the reclassification question has never been explicitly submitted to all residents. In order to make that possible, we, as the PVV Group, are tabling a motion. Residents do indeed need to be heard. For example, the three unelected mayors had already thought that the name of the merged municipality should be Voorne. Only after a poll showed on the AD website that a majority of the responding population preferred the name Voorne aan Zee, the merger committee was willing to change the name. Finally, Mr President. The reclassification process was already shady when on 28 January 2020 the Brielle City Council placed the reclassification proposal on the council agenda at the very last minute. As a result, citizens were not able to get to know the item on the agenda in advance. It was already tuned in the back rooms. According to the answer, the Minister considers this acceptable. This is normally done only in the case of a preparatory decision in order to avoid the last-minute submission of undesirable applications for authorisation. Can the Minister indicate how pure she feels about the fact that we want a government that is closer to the citizen? This is also indicated in the reclassification opinion. After all, the public was left ignorant of this item on the agenda. Last week there was something remarkable in the city council of Hellevoetsluis, after it appeared that the mayor on his own, without knowledge of college and council, turned out to be a place for a coffee shop, right next to a residential area. There is a lot of resistance from the residents. In the city council, a council inquiry into the mayor's actions was eventually abandoned, because such an investigation is a huge task which the city council cannot afford in the run-up to the merger. A motion of censure was also waived, because a motion of censure would force the entire college to resign in view of its collective responsibility. That could jeopardize the merger to Voorne aan Zee. Surely it cannot be the intention that local democracy should no longer function normally because of an imminent reclassification? Can the Minister indicate how she, as a system responsible, looks at this paralysis of the democratic accountability process? A reclassification shouldn't stand in the way of controlling and settling a failed mayor or a failing college, should it? I'd like a response from the Minister. So far in the first term, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion, which I would like to submit. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inhabitants of the municipalities concerned were unable to reach a referendum on the planned administrative merger;]] [[Whereas the inhabitants of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne must be able to express their opinion directly on the independence of their municipality;]] [[calls on the government not to bring into force the bill for the merger of the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne as long as the inhabitants of these municipalities have not been able to reach a referendum on the continued independence of their municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35967-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u19	I would ask the President to vote on this motion before we vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Can the House accept Mr Van Hattem's request to vote on this motion first this evening? That's the case. I now give the floor to Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the merger of three municipalities in South Holland: Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne. On paper it is the umpteenth municipal merger since 1945, when the Netherlands still consisted of over 1,000 municipalities, of which there are now only 340. It is a trend that does not seem to be reversed and which seemed to have been carried out by the previous cabinet even in high-speed rail transport. The former minister even had the plan to abolish 20 municipalities when she took office. This merger of three municipalities is the first merger of the current minister. Never seems to be the other way around. An administrative unbundling, for example, would at least be worth investigating, you would say. Small municipalities work much better than large municipalities. Research has shown that merging municipalities do not necessarily operate more efficiently or need less budget due to scaling up. In fact, the inhabitants of the new merged municipalities are often more expensive and feel less close to the new city council. A loss for democracy, at a high price. It all fits in with the so-called democratic parties, where it is striking that D66, which seems to have been set up to bring democracy closer to the citizens, wants to move democracy as far away from the citizens as possible as quickly as possible. First, the abolition of the referendum, in the previous cabinet period, and an unprecedented force to merge as many municipalities as possible without the participation of the inhabitants through a referendum. That just came through in the debate. The municipality of Haren, which is even forced to join Groningen, has long been the subject of discussion. The county board of Groningen has even misinformed the Chamber about the process for the merger of Haren with the municipality of Groningen. Haren wanted to remain independent at all costs, but eventually, under duress and a tricky administrative game, he eventually went to hell. Why do you have to do this, you'd think. Why not a referendum in which all residents who wish to vote on a possible merger? According to the VVD, the municipalities become too small to carry out the complex municipal tasks. In recent years, of course, many tasks, such as youth care, have come under the care of the municipalities. According to the VVD, mergers are therefore unavoidable and a consequence of policy choices made in The Hague. However, I would like to ask the Minister how a country such as Liechtenstein, with fewer inhabitants than the Municipality of Hellevoetsluis alone with 40,000 inhabitants, can function as a country with much more complex tasks than our municipalities? Why, therefore, is my second question not the complexity of all the tasks and tasks that lie with the municipalities and are still coming? Isn't reducing complexity a better strategy, looking at the cause of the problem, rather than the massive scale increases that are now being chosen? Mr. Chairman. Another concern for the Forum for Democracy is the support of the inhabitants of these municipalities for this type of merger. The cartel parties often speak loudly about participation and democracy. Conversation tables, neighborhood meetings and citizens' forums are being set up to involve citizens in such decision-making, but no binding referendum should ever be held. The kind of meetings that are organized about this, often on a weekday, when the hardworking citizen is not available, often come the same people who want to participate administratively. These are generally pensioners, D66s, PvdAs, NRC readers and VPRO members. Not a very representative group, then. The cartel can then show off the results of such discussion tables, as a majority of those present believe that they support the policy direction. This merger is also characterised by the low number of speakers for participation, while there would be broad support for this merger. Is this support for the public, or is it an official support for all kinds of administrative and organizational reasons? Are there any financial reasons? Is this perhaps motivated by the future reduction of financial contributions from the Empire, I ask the Minister. Why should there not be a binding referendum in these municipalities to measure the real basis of support? If there is support for a merger, as a result of a referendum, it is a democratic fact, which will of course respect that forum for democracy. But without a referendum, we are critical. Then why is a simple yes-no question not desirable, but is there a need for community meetings and civic forums?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u22	Mr Dessing asked why a binding referendum could not be held. That's legally impossible. The Constitution does not allow a binding referendum at a decentralised level. Consultative and consultative referenda could be held. It must then have been decided earlier in a regulation at local level, but that has not happened. It is therefore not possible to hold a binding referendum. There has just been a proposal in the Lower House for constitutional change to introduce referendums in two. One part was about decentralised referenda. That's rejected. The Labour Party is very much in favour of certain types of referenda, under certain conditions, but we must, of course, wait for the legislative process. At the moment it is not possible to introduce binding referendums, so why is Mr Dessing calling for them now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u23	Thank you for this question, Mr. Koole. Of course it is not possible at the moment, but in my speech I also try to use a somewhat contemplative tone, which fits this chambre de réflexion. I certainly do not want to claim that we should oblige municipalities to hold such a referendum in a municipal reclassification, but it is an ideal image that could fit in with the Forum for Democracy. A consultative referendum would also be a good test to see what the people actually think and whether that support is actually there for the citizens of the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u24	I believe I have heard that there was a call for a binding referendum, specifically in the case of these three municipalities. They asked why that didn't happen. Well, it just can't be. Now I hear you say that an advisory referendum would have been nice, but that is the responsibility of the municipalities themselves, I ask Mr Dessing. They must first establish such a regulation. If there is, there may be a referendum. That has not happened, but then there is always the city council speaking on behalf of the people. Of course, you can also ask the Minister. The Minister has the role to see if the democratic process has been good in the whole process of reclassification. That's up to the Minister himself. But why now the impossible questions and so little faith in the representative character of democracy at local level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u25	I have absolute faith in local democracy, let that be clear, but I am trying to make a bit of an exciting argument here to make us think. We have already had some of these issues. The merger between Haren and Groningen is over, the merger between Weesp and Amsterdam. It is an overarching point that the Forum for Democracy wants to make. I have already referred to this in part in my speech. In the future, I want to push that further. We may need to find the solution less in symptom control. We need to look at the core of the problem: the increase in the task of the municipalities. The reflex on that is that we therefore have to merge. Maybe we should take a different look at that. That's the point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u26	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u27	That last point, I think, is very good to look at. There are a lot of problems. We have also had a special debate here on the relationship between the levels of government in the Netherlands. That covered all of this. We have also had a debate on the introduction of referenda. That's when you can reflect on these kinds of instruments. Now it is specifically about this reclassification. And then you cannot ask for a binding referendum at the moment, because that is simply impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u28	Follow up on your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u29	Mr. Chairman. As a basis for the mergers, it is always said that a new, larger municipality will gain administrative power. No one knows what that is, but it sounds very forceful of course. Apparently, small municipalities can't do anything in themselves and suddenly, after a merger, they have more power to carry out tasks on their own. In a study by the University of Groningen, we see that these new municipalities spend no less than before the merger, not necessarily found more attractive by residents, but even the opposite is true. People get less involved in politics and figures show that residents of such municipalities are also less likely to vote. As far as we are concerned, it is a loss to democracy. And what is also often the case in merger municipalities is that there is one larger municipality with huge debts and that the surrounding richer villages have to merge with the larger municipality in order to eliminate the lack of money in the great devourer of the money. It's been happening for decades. The merger between Zaandam and surrounding municipalities such as Krommenie, Koog aan de Zaan, Wormerveer, Assendelft, Westzaan and Zaandijk. Zaandam was in debt and the villages around it had everything neatly in order. There had to and would be a merger and so the municipality of Zaanstad arose. And now the same thing is threatening to happen to Brielle and Westvoorne. Hellevoetsluis, by far the largest municipality of the three with more than 40,000 inhabitants, seems to have an exorbitant budget deficit, while Brielle and Westvoorne are perfectly self-sufficient. But again the good will suffer the evil. You could just compare it to the EU, where the North finances the South. Mr. Chairman. Today we're talking about a next merger in a whole zipper. It is a phenomenon that Forum for Democracy is against in general terms, and also in this case. The special feature of this merger is that it concerns the municipality of Brielle, a municipality with a very special history that had to fight its own independence. Brielle is known for the story of the Duke of Alva. The fortified village was ruled in the sixteenth century by the Spaniards during the Eighty Years' War. The governor of Brielle was the Duke of Alva. The population of Brielle died at the time about the way the Spanish prince, Philips the Second, ruled the city. Many thought he was too catholic, and he used to sneak around for extra money. When Philips came up with an extra tax bearing the name Tenth Penny, that was bad. Prince Willem of Orange rebelled and led a mercenary army, the watergeuzen, who formed his navy. On March 31, 1572 the fleet of the watergeuzen, 26 ships led by Commander Lumey, headed towards Den Briel and anchored the fleet for Den Briel. The water gnats were told that there were few Spanish soldiers in the city and they were asked to summon the mayor to surrender the city to the water gnats. Mayor Koekebakker and the city council first refused, because the geuzen were notorious for their looting and other misdeeds. On April 1, 1572 the geuzen stormed the Noordpoort: "In the name of the Orange, open the gate." They quickly dealt with the Spaniards and got their hands on the city. And so Den Briel became the first city in the hands of the insurgents and proudly carries out the motto "Freedom of Freedom." The prince flag was raised. The intake of Den Briel became one of the most famous events of the Eighty Years' War and the patriotic history of our current Netherlands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u31	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Hattem and Mr Dessing for their contribution to the first term. This debate focuses on the reclassification of the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne. The three municipalities intend to form the new municipality of Voorne aan Zee on 1 January 2023. It is indeed a long journey. Mr Dessing and Mr Van Hattem also spoke about what preceded this. Indeed, the trajectory started in 2013. The added value that the municipalities see in this reclassification is that they can move together as one municipality to work regionally in cooperation in the social domain, the physical domain but also in the approach to coastal sanding, and that they have a stronger position in the region. Mr. Chairman. If I look at some of the questions that arise, then one is: what kind of reclassification is this? This is a reclassification from the bottom, as we call it. It is the initiative of the municipalities themselves, in which the various municipalities have decided with each other that they want this reclassification. The question raised by both Members is: how do we look at social support and what aspects are attached to it? The aspects attached to this are listed in the municipal reclassification policy framework of the Ministry of the Interior. It states that the weighing of public support really belongs to the autonomy of the municipalities. And we saw in the previous debate that the autonomy of municipalities is considered important. The municipalities, the councils and the lectures can decide for themselves how they weigh the social basis and how they implement it. This can be done with a consultative referendum, but it can also be done with various discussions with residents, with surveys or with evenings, as long as they justify in the reclassification advice how they have implemented this. The way in which these municipalities have done this fits within the current framework. In this context, there is a multitude of forms that municipalities can choose for. It is not necessary for this to be an advisory referendum. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dessing pointed out in the broader reflections on reclassifications that this is again a reclassification as there have been many before. Has there ever been a church that has chosen to split up? That has indeed happened in the past. So that's not impossible. That is still possible by law. At the time, the municipality of Ermelo divided into the municipalities of Nunspeet and Ermelo. Both municipalities still exist. Mr Dessing also knows that his colleague in the Lower House, Mr Van Houwelingen, now has an initiative proposal in the Lower House with another proposal for division, namely of the municipalities of Groningen and Haren, which have previously been merged. As a cabinet, we have not yet taken a position on this, because Mr Van Houwelingen has to answer the questions of the House of Representatives first. Mr Van Hattem then also asked about new city offices and what the Minister thinks about them. That's an excellent thing for a new city council to decide on. It decides whether he wants to use the current buildings or a new building, and what he's going to do with the old buildings. That's not my responsibility as a minister. Mr. Chairman. With regard to administrative power, Mr Dessing asked: is larger per se better? No, as far as I'm concerned, bigger isn't necessarily better. The municipal reclassification policy framework also explicitly states that there must be support from the bottom to do so. Not only with an official organization that is a bit larger, but also with a city council that is a bit larger, you often see more specialism and more expertise. I can also see that the proximity of administration calls for particular attention. I see studies that say that proximity has been increased, but on the other hand there are also studies that have not concluded that. Mr. Chairman. I liked the comparison with Liechtenstein. It also really shows you just have to look over it. The establishment of the public administration is different in each country. We have given our municipalities quite a solid position. Our municipalities have relatively many tasks if you compare this with other countries, for example, internationally. It is true that these tasks, responsibilities and powers of municipalities should also be in balance as a minister. That is one of the reasons why I am working on a feasibility test for the new policy. We also want to give them to the municipalities. There was also a question from Mr Van Hattem about sending documents to the council. I understand that this was really about the initial period, when the first proposals went to the Council, but there were a lot of debates afterwards on the reclassification and the various aspects of it. Then there was another motion from Mr Van Hattem. This motion is intended to hold a referendum on the survival of the municipalities before voting on this proposal. As I have just said, the policy framework in the Ministry of the Interior states that municipalities themselves, on the basis of their autonomy, deal with how they implement the issue of public support. There is no need for a consultative referendum. They can do that in other ways. These municipalities have also given substance to this. That makes me detach this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u32	I would like to come back to the last point. In fact, the municipalities have filled out the fixed list in their documents and indicated what they have done in the area of participation. In fact, there is hardly a measure of whether that is sufficient, or whether the citizens are actually sufficiently involved in the reclassification plans. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether it really is being looked at in terms of content. Is this citizen really proactively involved by the municipality in these plans, or is there indeed a meeting held after noon, as Mr Dessing rightly pointed out, and is it particularly interesting to organise from the administrative point of view? The second point for which I actually came forward is the following. At that Council meeting, although the reclassification proposal itself was not dealt with at the last moment, the plan was put on the table. With me, it's basically a matter of being a city council meeting on business in full disclosure. It should also be clear in advance what will be on the agenda, so that citizens can also know that there will be a meeting in their municipal council on this and this and this proposal. Now this is only done at the very last minute. An interested citizen cannot therefore even follow Council meetings via the live stream or in the public gallery, because they are only confronted with the fact that this was suddenly on the agenda afterwards. My question is how the Minister looks at this degree of transparency, especially the lack of transparency, in this reclassification process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u33	It's a process, as I indicated, that has run for a long time. An extensive consultation took place in 2019, with all three municipalities also looking at the population. Different methods have been used. There have been panels, there have been community meetings, there have been surveys. So it has really been implemented in a number of ways. This ultimately led to a discussion at the end of 2020 of the Council's intention to reclassify, but also of the decisions in principle taken in April 2020. As Mr Van Hattem knows, because he is active in several gremia: province, council, First Chamber... Is it complete?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u34	You can still mention the Benelux Parliament, but that is part of the task of the First Chamber. Then I think it's complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u35	I'll take a look at Mr. Kox. Then I'll have to call the Benelux Parliament, won't I? Yes, I must also mention the Benelux Parliament. Furthermore, once such an opinion has been delivered, views can be re-tabled. So there is another possibility at the back to do what was discussed at the front, before the reclassification advice was there, and to ask again: how do you look at this? In fact, only positive views, including those of residents, have come back to that. So, in that sense, I would like to point out that a wide-ranging process has taken place here. Of course, it is always up to the board itself to decide what its agenda looks like. They can also decide whether or not they want to discuss a particular subject. It is up to the First and Second Chambers to be sharp on that, but also always to the council itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u36	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u37	It is indeed up to that council itself, but, in view of the reclassification process, it is a pure and honest decision to remember the citizens in advance, which I really have some doubts about. In addition to this, the Minister has not yet responded to the fact that in the Municipality of Hellevoetsluis certain tasks of the Council, simply examining the functioning of the College and the Mayor, are being dismissed in certain decisions. That's because of the reclassification. Then I wonder: does such a reclassification not do more harm than good?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u38	That is a clear question. Shall we leave it at that, sir? Otherwise, you will have your next term up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u39	The latter example shows that Mr Van Hattem is well informed about the latest developments. I did not get this Council debate, so I have to refrain from taking a view on it. Of course, there have been quite a number of debates in the Council on the reclassification.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u40	Thank you. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Mr Dessing for his fine contribution just in the first term. Mr. Chairman. The Minister mentioned the aspect of autonomy. Of course, this is very important in this context. At the same time, we see that the cabinet itself deals with it very differently. This afternoon I had another debate with Secretary of State Van der Burg on the asylum issues and the designation of azc's. On these aspects, this cabinet has much less respect for municipal autonomy. This week it happened that the King's Commissioner in Flevoland, Mr Verbeek, came in front of the municipality of Noordoostpolder with his service car to inform the city council that there should and will be a registering centre for asylum seekers. That was imposed on the board for a while. I also believe that he demanded that it be held in a private meeting. That municipal autonomy is thus ordered by the cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this context, therefore, I have not yet received a response from the Minister to my question as to whether these freed-up public buildings, which will soon be claimed for asylum accommodation, will be required. Because those are the plans that are ahead of us right now. Can the Minister rule that out? Mr. Chairman. The Minister mentions as one of the main arguments that the administrative organisation can work better together. That's exactly what you shouldn't be doing such a municipal reclassification for. It has to be something that will help the citizens. Those officials need to make sure that they can work together, no matter what organization they're in. It does not matter whether it is in an official merger, or through environmental services and other regional organisations. There must be enough professionalism to be able to do that work. Whether that is in a large or in a small church; that battle must be possible. As was rightly mentioned in the first term: there are simply enough smaller municipalities in the Netherlands and abroad that can do just that. Mr. Chairman. It is said that having a better voice at regional level would be an important argument for the merger. We read precisely in the report that it was literally said that the three independent municipalities are well positioned towards regional and social partners. So that's fine at the moment. So what improves this reclassification? It's already in order. The point of proximity to governance calls attention, says the Minister. Perhaps it is a good idea to look at this before we take another step towards a further merger, whereby the proximity of the administration to the citizen is thrown a bit too gibberish. Can the Minister reflect on how she looks at the fact that this issue is hardly being dealt with? We have, of course, seen that such advice is made beautifully with beautiful full-colour printing works that will promote such a new municipality Voorne aan Zee. That'll be nice as a tourist brochure. If they want to lure more tourists to their beautiful municipality, that's fine, but you don't need a municipal reclassification for that either. The sanding on the coast is an aspect that plays a strong role there. This can indeed become a problem for tourism. But the current municipalities can also do very well in consultation with Rijkswaterstaat to deal with this. Now some of the inhabitants of these municipalities already say very cynically: we are not going to become Voorne aan Zee, but Voorne aan De Mudder. So I would not even like to wait to deal with this problem, but simply want to go ahead with it and continue it, regardless of whether or not there will be a municipal reclassification. Mr. Chairman. Finally, my motion on holding referendums. As a PVV, we consider it essential for citizens to be able to make their voice heard in any municipal reclassification. I will also put forward such a motion for a referendum at every municipal reclassification that is before us, so that citizens can and must always have the last word in the reclassification of their municipalities. So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the Minister's answers. I am pleased that we have been able to have this debate with each other in this way. I welcome the Minister's remark that greater is not necessarily better. Let us at least make that clear in the Acts, because that is a point which I am very concerned about. Something has been said in the Minister's reply about the story of complexity versus the scaling-up, namely that increasing the complexity of the municipalities in particular might be a reason for a scaling-up. However, I would like to have a little more answer to that, because I think that is the crux of the root cause of the problem. Isn't that something we should look at together and indeed, in the context of future mergers, we should have a more general debate about? That is my question to the Minister. Of course it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide, because Thorbecke's house here means that we give them that autonomy in order to make their own decisions. That's absolutely true. But is there not, perhaps, a role for the government in the framework of the Inter-Governmental Control Act, where there is already financial supervision when it comes to budgets and budgets in such a merger? Isn't it also an idea to look over the shoulder of such a process alone, to see if that goes smoothly? Shouldn't we be the government, whether it's the Empire or the province, and I'm not sufficiently qualified to have a role to play in checking these mergers of these municipalities with some sort of second opinion? That's another thing I'd like to give you. But at least thank you for this debate. Thank you also to Mr Van Hattem for his contribution. I look forward to the Minister's remaining answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you in a position to respond directly? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u45	Mr President, thank you. Mr Van Hattem is persistent in the fact that this would not be a reclassification he himself would have voted for as a council member. At the same time, my conclusion is that all three municipalities voted unanimously in favour of this reclassification. So one sees future for the new municipality Voorne aan Zee. Whatever the core you look at socially from the current municipalities through which that municipality is formed, they are connected when it comes to social cohesion and the involvement of the inhabitants in the living environment. Indeed, they also see their strength in the attraction from whatever they have to offer for others. One reason they want to work together and see the added value of this is indeed in carrying out these tasks in the physical and social domain and also in working together in the region, as they are already active in the various regional deals. It is really the new municipality Voorne aan Zee that will be about what will or will not happen to the new town hall, whether there will be and whether or not buildings will be used. That's not my responsibility as a minister. That's what the board is about in the end. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Dessing's question about inter-administrative supervision. Ultimately, the criteria have been designed in the policy framework. I'm gonna test that as a minister. This is also reflected in the explanatory statement by Mr Dessing. In between, there is always the province, which also gives an opinion on the reclassification advice. Given this structure in the General Rules Law reclassification, my proposal would not be to disregard a separate construct such as inter-administrative supervision. Furthermore, Mr Dessing also asked in an intermediate sentence whether there would be a great deal of controversy in the coming period. No, this is currently the only reclassification of this year that will pass the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u46	Thank you, Minister. Mr Dessing has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u47	I would just like to ask my main question about the essence of the problem, the complexity versus the scale increase. Can the Minister still reflect on that? Because I think we should realise that precisely because of this decentralisation, a lot of tasks go to these municipalities. Isn't that some kind of perverse incentive to stimulate and enable these mergers? Shouldn't we think about it in a more fundamental way if that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u48	With regard to the performance of tasks in the social domain, for example in the Social Support Act, or in the physical domain, you can see that municipalities find and also use many different ways to carry out these tasks. Some municipalities say that they can handle themselves well. Other municipalities indicate that they are still looking for cooperation with other municipalities because they can organise expertise with each other and don't have to double the number of cases. And other municipalities also indicate over time that it is indeed such a task for them that they prefer not to do it with cooperation, but rather as a new municipality. I think it is important to leave the differences in the way municipalities carry out the tasks they have been given. If there are new decentralisations, I think it is particularly important that we carry out a very good test of their feasibility at the front. In this context, I am working on a feasibility test for local authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u49	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-16.u50	I come to the processing of legislative proposal 35967, the merging of the municipalities of Brielle, Hellevoetsluis and Westvoorne. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that the vote on the bill be taken tonight after dinner. I therefore propose that we vote on the motion tabled. I'm suspending the dinner break meeting until 7:30. After the dinner break, as previously announced, follow the extra moods. The debate will then continue on the budgetary states of Finance and National Debt and the fiscal states of Social Affairs and Employment under the heading of "buy power."
