ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the two-minute debate Research on safety experiences among young people in youth care with residence. I welcome again the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the MPs. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Westerveld. We now know the rules of the game: if possible as short as possible. The same goes for the Secretary of State. Mrs Westerveld speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u2	And on behalf of the PvdA. Mr. Chairman. Young people in youth care institutions must be safe. We all think so, but we know that in practice not every young person is safe. We hear this from their stories, but this is also apparent from the thick reports of the De Winter Committee and the Samson Committee, among others. These two committees also recommended that repeat prevalence studies be carried out in the future on sexual abuse and on forms of violence in youth care institutions. Unfortunately, we can see that these recommendations have not been followed. I agree with that, especially since last week a report was issued by the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence. He was investigating what actually happened to the recommendations of these committees. The report showed that the government often does far too little with these recommendations, but also that there is not enough to protect young people from sexual violence. Now a study has been done, but that is not a prevalence study. There are far too few respondents. The researchers themselves, as well as the Secretary of State, say that this research is too lean to draw conclusions from it. That is why I have tabled a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that one of the recommendations of De Winter Committee was to investigate the prevalence of violence in current youth care;]] [[noting that, following this recommendation, a study has been carried out on the safety experience of young people in youth care with residence;]] [[Whereas this study had so few respondents that there was a need for restraint in drawing conclusions;]] [[Whereas this study does not meet the standards of prevalence studies recommended by the De Winter Committee;]] [[calls on the Government to follow the recommendations of De Winter and Samson Commission and to carry out a prevalence study on violence, including sexual violence, in residential youth care and foster families, in order to be able to monitor on a permanent basis how the scale of this problem develops,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31015-260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have a motion, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he has a keen eye for serious physical violence during residence. A younger person needs to know where he or she can go if something happens. The VVD would like the Secretary of State to work to improve this clarity and to work closely with the AKJ, i.e. the Youth Care Advisory and Complaint Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Cousin. The motion has yet to be distributed on paper, but the Secretary of State has indicated that he can reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A brief discussion, but on an extremely important subject: safety in youth care and the safety experience of young people in youth care. It is just as precise and very strict when it comes to Mrs Westerveld's motion. I would like to get out with Mrs Westerveld in a good way. I share some of the observations and considerations, for example that there were too few respondents to the conclusions and also that we want to implement the recommendations of the De Winter Committee. The question is: in what way do you do it in a way that is effective and has predictive value? So it's not just in retrospect that you notice something, but that it also has predictive value. For this we have now launched a new study, of which prevalence is also a part. I would like to look with you at how we take the prevalence part into account so that Mrs Westerveld says: this is indeed the line that De Winter puts in. But I wouldn't want to do a stand-alone survey of prevalence, because that's losing the predictive power of it. That is precisely what we are doing in the existing investigation that has been deported. If I could look at it this way and take over, it's different from what it says here, but we understand each other very well. Then we can move forward with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u6	I welcome this hand-off from the Secretary of State. It's good to get out of here together. Last week, the report showed very clearly that the government is doing too little to protect children, but also that too little is happening with the recommendations of committees that have done extensive research on them. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what his commitment would be. I have here the recommendations of both Samson and De Winter, which indicate that you have to do such a prevalence study every few years to monitor the situation. That also seems important to me in the light of the plans he announced in the last two-minute debate on youth care reform. It is important that we know later whether these reforms contribute to less violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u7	Yeah, you're damn right I did. Here's what I'd like to say. A study has been announced by me in which the research that you have on your mind needs to be done again and better, including the prevalence. We're gonna take a closer look at that prevalence. We are going to look more closely at whether we have adequately secured the standards of the De Winter Committee from even longer ago. This is most likely to lead to an adjustment of the existing research announced on the basis of what you are asking me to do here. What I'm not doing is a separate prevalence study, because that separates it from its predictive value. That would be my commitment, and that would bring us a little beyond the text of the motion, but that is how I would like to agree with Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u8	That means, just for the record, that you say with this explanation that you want to give the motion judgment Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u9	It says very specifically here "to carry out a prevalence study on violence." That means that I have some doubts about this motion, so I would prefer you to withdraw this motion when you can use my explanation. I do not want to discourage this motion either, because it seems as if I am drawing up an image as if we do not want to implement De Winter's recommendations. That is absolutely not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u10	Let us agree that we should take a look at this motion and, after this debate, contact the Secretary of State and his support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u11	Excellent. This means that the Secretary of State is currently saying: I do not wish to dissuade her, but it still needs to be discouraged. Mrs Westerveld will come back and we will see whether and how this motion will be put to the vote tomorrow. Wasn't another question answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u12	I believe that this was a call from Mr De Neef on cooperation with the AKJ, and we have heard that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u13	Excellent. That concludes this two-minute debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-16.u14	Thank you for the three two-minute debates to the State Secretary of Health, Welfare and Sport. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and suspend the sitting for a moment in a moment to continue the next two-minute debate.
