ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the state of the rule of law. I would once again like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. I ask the messengers to put the cathedral in position. We now need the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. I just need to make sure everything's okay. I'm not wearing my heels, so you'll know the difference. Mr. Chairman. I'm thinking about Willem Witteveen today. Eight years ago, he walked through The Hague or sat on the green benches of your Chamber at the Binnenhof, looking forward to a spicy exchange of views. He was one of the initiators of the biennial debates on the rule of law. It is therefore an appropriate time to reflect on his death on 17 July 2014 over Ukraine. It is as sad as ironic that he was killed by the same aggressor who invaded that country this year. The brutal indifference with which Russia betrayed the value of the rule of law shocked us and shocked us now. It also makes us all the more aware of how precious and vulnerable peace, security and justice are at the same time. It is my mission, our mission, to cherish, defend and strengthen our rule of law. In addition, Willem Witteveen's ideas are a source of inspiration for me. It particularly appeals to me that he often insisted that ordinary people should bear the rule of law. Of course, what we as politicians do must have meaning for the 'ordinary' people, but it is also important that we can explain in understandable language what we are doing and that we can also see in practice the effect of what we think we are doing here. This means that our policy must be a logical response to the needs of all those people outside this building; they should be at the forefront. In a well-functioning and vibrant democratic rule of law, we are not but they are the vanguard. With that thought, I would like to enter into the debate with your Chamber on what is needed to make the rule of law of practical significance in people's daily lives, on how we can ensure that the Netherlands is safe and safe, on how we guarantee that we do justice and justice in the Netherlands, and on how we can move freely in our country and preserve freedom. Mr. Chairman. I think I'll go straight to the folders. In the Lower House it is customary that I mention what folders I have here, too. We had some time to prepare all the folders, so there are quite a few. I mention them: undermining, freedom of the press, criminal justice chain, police, BES islands and other very important questions. I'd like to start with undermining and organized crime. The sad thing is that organized drug crime has rooted itself deeply in Dutch society. In recent times, we have seen very tragic consequences of this. We see criminals investing their money in the upper world, which only increases their power. They're trying to recruit our children into vulnerable neighborhoods for a career in the drug business. And they do not shy away from the use of ruthless violence. The terrible murders of lawyer Derk Wiersum and crime reporter Peter R. de Vries make it painfully clear how vulnerable our rule of law can be and how important it is to protect them. I do not exaggerate when I say that organised crime is one of the greatest threats and challenges to our democratic rule of law. It is therefore imperative that this cabinet launches a broad offensive against this organized undermining crime. The dominant positions that drug criminals have built up in society must be broken. We must also break through the prestige and the sense of inviolability that criminals think they have. The fight against crime is not only a long-term one, it is also one that we must take on several fronts and on several levels. As responsible minister, I have four substantive priorities. Those are: preventing small boys from becoming big criminals, breaking criminal networks and earning models, preventing you from laundering, punishing and protecting dirty money. The latter is about the people who stand in front of us, whether they are police, the legal profession, the judiciary, journalists or politicians, who unfortunately sometimes stand there at risk for their own lives and serve our rule of law. We must continue to protect those people. These are the four pillars. I can say a lot more about it, but I suggest that I go straight to the questions that have been asked about tackling organised crime. The first one I have before me is from Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks. She said that money laundering and tax evasion are clearly a threat to our rule of law. Earlier, the Vendrik motion was adopted here. She asked if there could be a reaction to that. I wholeheartedly endorse what Mr Vendrik's motion calls for, namely strengthening the investigative capacity to combat money laundering, as well as broadening and deepening the scope of the National Risk Assessment Laundering. The motion will be carried out on both points. In recent years, for example, there has been considerable investment in tackling organised crime and money laundering. That happened, as I say, especially in the field of investigation services, because you need to invest extra across the board. Most recently, it was with last year's Princess Day fees. In the coalition agreement, the current cabinet invests another 100 million structurally in the comprehensive approach to organised crime. Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to... No, I think I'm moving on now. Mrs Karimi had a number of questions. It's a little more coherent if I do it now. She said: look at the islands, look at Curaçao; that seems to be a paradise for organized crime and mafia. She asked if it was true and how we deal with it. One of the elements of strengthening the Dutch approach to organised crime is to strengthen cooperation with the Latin American and Caribbean region. We are currently working with the Dutch parties concerned to develop a joint strategy on policy, enforcement and detection aimed at combating the undermining crime in relation to Latin America and the Caribbean. This strategy is aligned with the Caribbean and other relevant Latin American partners. It also involves the operational strategy for Latin America and the Caribbean of the national police. The starting point is always reciprocity. On Curaçao itself, among others, the team of detectives is jointly responsible for combating undermining and cross-border crime with the forces and chain partners in the region. In this context, too, resources are being made available to ensure that it can be effective and effective. Mrs Karimi also mentioned young people with social problems. She said that these easily fall prey to organized and undermining crime. She said: where is this integrated prevention? It's always been the case that young people were sucked into crime, recruited. Now, however, this is always the case at a younger age. The money you can make with it is an unprecedented amount, and it's moving faster and faster. This is a really big problem. I am glad that I, together with a lot of colleagues from the cabinet, the Minister for Legal Protection, has been able to invest a significant part of prevention in his portfolio to ensure that little boys do not become major criminals. Of course, we do not lose sight of their relatives, brothers, sisters. It's a big, urgent problem. We have allocated 82 million in structural terms, and we are very focused on prevention. I call it'structural', because I know that it is a very important element from the expertise of youth workers, who are specifically working on this issue. They have said: make sure that it is no longer occasional, but that we can build something that works well. One of these days the letter will come to the House of Representatives. Of course, we'll make sure this one comes to the First Chamber as well. For me, a number of elements are important. We're really focusing on customization. We have selected 15 municipalities, which we know have vulnerable neighbourhoods where very good things are already happening. So successful projects, which we will strengthen with this. With this, the 82 million is most likely not made up. What is left is going to be investing in other areas to make sure that you also strengthen prevention there. I think the following is very important. I always believe in the carrot and the stick; you need them both. That means we're doing everything we can to make sure you don't get sucked into the criminal circuit. Whether it is young people who are vulnerable but are not yet in the picture, young people at the beginning of their so-called criminal career, or young people who have been in it for some time, but are still of an age that we think we can get closer to them with these kinds of programmes. It's always a combination. We help someone and do what we can, but the moment it doesn't work or the younger one doesn't cooperate, justice comes into view. It's never noncommittal. That's what we learn from practice. Make sure it is structural and not non-binding and take care of customization. That's what we're doing with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u4	I am the replacement for Mrs Karimi, who cannot be present today. Let me come back to the previous point. Thank you for the specific information given by the Minister. When it comes to the Caribbean and Latin American area, it is also about parts of our Kingdom. The Minister calls them in one breath, but the partnership relations obviously look very different. My question is specifically about the countries in our Kingdom. How's the interaction with the government there? How's the partnership? To what extent do we draw the same weight and to what extent does the joint responsibility play out from the guarantee function?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u5	I'll be on the BES islands later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u6	No, it was about the countries there. We are dealing with the BES countries ourselves. But with the countries we have a partnership, but we do have a guarantee function from the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u7	Clear. I think I understand the question. The autonomous position of the countries must be respected at all times. At the same time, we have a very clear role at different levels in our relationship with the countries. If I don't get quite close to the answer, I'll get back to you later. Then I will undoubtedly get it a little bit sharper from GroenLinks, but we are very clear about the financial resources for the approach and the goal for it. From 2022, for example, we have 12 million of the additional funds released to tackle undermining in the Caribbean. We have agreed very clear elements in this and we are sending them. If this is part of the answer, I'm glad. If not, I'd like to get the question a little sharper, even for the people next door listening in. Then I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u8	I'm gonna give it a little bit of a shot. Of course, we very much hope that the joint approach is a shared feeling of the government there and the government here about what needs to be done. At the same time, this crime undermines administrative power and the ability to do something about it. Therefore, the question is when does the Kingdom come into view with a kingdom responsibility when it comes to the guarantee function? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u9	Clear. If you don't mind, I'll come back to that later. I understand the question now. It's about reciprocity and your perspective for action in there. I see nodding, so I interpret that as if I could come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u10	We can talk about the other countries of the Kingdom far away, but we can also start with our own country. I hear the minister say we have to stop the little boys from becoming big boys. But let's start with the big boys, the boys on the Zuidas, who facilitate all kinds of things for a lot of money. The Netherlands has 12,400 letterbox companies and is also known as the largest transit country in the world as a tax haven. What does that do to undermine the rule of law? That's what the minister's standing for now. I would very much like to know if the cabinet is prepared to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u11	I will come to the specific questions put by Mr Nicolaï on this subject. In practice, we know that organised crime prefers to sit on completely underground banking and on other forms of money laundering. I understand the question, but I'll get back to you later. Mr Nicolaï said: let's start with the big boys. But the big boys can still exist because there are little boys who can be recruited, and because there are indeed ways to launder. So I think we should focus on all these pillars. In a moment I will return to my remarks on money laundering more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u12	I am glad that the Minister will come back to that, but I am not so much concerned with undermining crime. I am concerned with the essential and fundamental question relating to the rule of law: what does it do for our sense of justice when we see that the Dutch government facilitates the legal functioning of 12,400 letterbox companies, even though we know that it is also used by criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u13	That is a very fundamental question, which goes much wider than just this example. Why are we one of the most interesting countries for drug criminals? Because our open economy and our excellent infrastructure are being abused by them. This issue goes from the port of Rotterdam, Schiphol and other mainports to everything we have built up here, which we also benefit from together, which we make a lot of money from and which we deal with a lot of jobs. The criminals are grateful to take advantage of that. You can have legal constructions and set up the economy in a certain way, but you will always have criminals looking for weakness in them and then taking advantage of them. So how do we then all side by side ensure that criminals think at some point: it does not pay to go to the Netherlands? I understand that the question is very relevant: what does it do with the feeling of society? I think I have now given a clear answer. In particular, I wanted to mention the elements with which I started my story, namely that we see that some journalists can't go out without day-and-night security and that lawyers are killed. I think that is a good thing for the average Dutchman, because that really affects the rule of law. In addition, we need to look at our economy and infrastructure. How did we build it and how can we better protect it from criminals? I think both elements are true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u14	But, if you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'd really like to lift it a little higher. Of course, there are criminals who use it. But it is also simply used for tax evasion. That's for sure. Under the Rutte Cabinets, we have facilitated this as the Netherlands, and we still do. I feel that as a violation of our rule of law, because you are actually giving a green signal for a way of thinking that, if you think further, you will automatically get to the criminal circuit. I would like to draw attention to that in the Minister's office. I am very curious to hear what she has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u15	I will come back to certain points later. But when it comes to our financial structures, how desirable they are and what else can be done on that point, I think that we can quite rightly disagree on them, discuss them or perhaps even philosophize them, where every element will be true. But if you really want to make a statement about that and act accordingly if we feel that this is not how we want it, then that is really something that belongs to the Minister of Finance. A lot is being done about that, too. Of course, that's very good. What we are doing on our side is this. The moment we see criminals taking advantage of this, we take on money laundering from our responsibilities and then we tackle all those elements. I'll come back to that later. I think that these are different flows and that the debate on them should be held in different places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u16	I have two practical questions for the Minister. First of all... Prevention, 82 million, is good. But we all know, of course, that prevention must first and foremost be taken up by other ministries: culture, education, economic affairs, given socio-economic conditions. My question is: how is cooperation with other ministries sought in addition to their own ministry in order to shape this prevention? Second. On the one hand, I hear the cabinet quite rightly hard on undermining crime, and on the other hand I also make proposals on the relatively minor offences, which are not subject to undermining crime, but much more are on the street, on the workplace or in the family. Does the cabinet actually distinguish in its approach? My fear back there is this. There's a lot of attention to undermining crime and we're all focusing on hard-harder-hardest. Part of me can sympathize with that. But then you're wronging those other forms of crime. Is there a clear cut in the mind of the ministry, saying: we do this for domestic violence and for all things that are not undermining?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u17	I shall begin with the first question on prevention. I think a large part of prevention is primarily in JenV, but Mr Recourt is right. If you want to do prevention right, it's much wider than that. It's also about the conditions in which you grow up, your environment and you name it. The coherent approach addressed to the neighbourhoods lies with the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning. It will soon come up with a plan, in which we will fill in another important pillar, for example from the 82 million. That coherence really takes place there and is focused on education, living and what we do on JenV. It is very nice that we have divided that into columns, but that is not the case in the municipality of course. So it is very important that this is an integral part of the local situation. That comes through the colleague for VRO. Yeah, there's that cut. If we had this conversation three weeks ago, I would have just said yes. In the meantime, we have been to Italy together with the Minister for Legal Protection to look at their approach to the Mafia. We have seen that they have very clear legislation with which they are very focused on the mafia. Now we have such legislation reasonable for organised crime, but we have formulated it quite broadly. We are more focused on terrorism. We differed on whether that was right or not, but we do have it, and I welcome it. I think that we can still make it work, even when it comes to tackling organised crime. You will then get clearer definitions of the prison regime, which Mr Weerwind is about, up to and including information sharing and on what basis you will do so. In the focus and breadth of investment, the different forms of crime are absolutely in the picture. My mission would be to make the translation of organized crime to the average Dutchman out there much better, because it is no longer something of the past. It's not a far-from-my-bed show, and it's not criminals who find each other in an industrial park. It hasn't been for a long time. This has settled in our society, so it's already very close. Other forms remain, and this is something that is certainly being addressed. I think we could, for example, make a sharper cut in terms of legislation, but that is being examined now, so maybe I'll come back with the story that couldn't be done in a while. I'd like to have a little more sharper or that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u18	That's good to hear. You don't have to convince me. I've been an advocate for years not to let the 'ndrangheta nest in the Netherlands. In vain, I'm just saying. My second question is: are you going to Norway or Finland? Are you looking at other forms of detention, rather than focusing on Italy with its tough approach? Both approaches must take shape. I think 1,500 cases have just been dropped at the Gelderland Court. I think there's 51,000 Sepot this year. These are all possibilities for a completely different approach, as far as it is not undermining crime. Those cases are pending, so do something with them in the context of recovery law. Take them out and get on with it. But then you'll have to get away from that hard-harder hardest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u19	The Minister for Legal Protection will deal with this in greater detail in the near future. As a policy position, you cannot have "harder-harder-hardest." A I don't believe in, because it's always about customization. I learned from a psychiatrist once that you have very rudely said three types of criminals. It's been said quite charmed, but that's the mad, the bad and the sad. Of those who need care, who have a low IQ or have a ggz problem, one may think that detention will make a difference, but if one then repeats within a few hours, you have not made the difference. That goes up to the ones you know... Well, we know what we're talking about. Mr Weerwind will comment on exactly what is going on with the prison regime. I don't think you should be afraid to intervene hard, so as not to allow criminal matters to continue from detention, which we see everywhere in the world and in the Netherlands. That's a really big problem. At the same time, Mr Recourt is quite right that this does not represent the entire population and has created an effective approach. That is what Mr Weerwind is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u20	Finally, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u21	That's nice to hear, but here too I have a small concern. If the Minister wishes to call back repeats, I am of course in complete agreement with her. But you can see that violent recidivism doesn't diminish in a lot of crimes. I think you should have the guts, even as a VVD in a cabinet, to say that a different approach fits much better here. Perhaps it is not repressive, but it has a much better effect on the recidivisms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u22	I understand that Mr Recourt still needs to get used to me. I believe that in the few debates we have had here, I have shown that I certainly see that distinction. One time you're gonna be tough and locked up for a long time, homely speaking, definitely make a difference to recidivism, because you're gonna be inside. But for a lot you have to deal with it differently: detention or with other forms of freedom restriction up to and including being outside. That is why I mentioned these categories: slight intellectual impairment or lbb-problems, ggz-problems. We have also dealt with here, in my view, at that time we were not even, in part and partly, that you should, I think, have the possibility of following someone who is still a danger after detention for longer, for example when it comes to terrorism. So it's all levels. May I make a comment on my colleague's portfolio? I think we're doing pretty well in the Netherlands. We can always learn from the countries around us, but we are not at the beginning of development. For example, we have pretty well linked the health and safety chain here, but it can always be done better. It always has to be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u23	I would like to go back to the four pillars mentioned by the Minister: preventing, breaking criminal networks, punishing and protecting, in particular, those who are on the front line to fight crime. Can the Minister indicate how many people we are talking about by now? Is there enough capacity at all to protect those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u24	I'll get to that later. We do have numbers. I will ask in a moment if I can mention it in the second term. Of course, that has to do with: how much information do you give about that? I'll have to check with the officials, if that's all right with you. There is also a difference between the local domain and the national domain. We have now built two systems for this. Anyway, I can say that in the six months that I am a minister, I see how hard the group that needs to be protected is growing, just in my term. That's not gonna get any better in the next few days. There will only be more people on the program who need to be guarded and protected because of their work or what they say, because you say what you want to say, because you do your job like writing articles about criminals, because you're a lawyer, judge or whatever. That group is growing. I am glad that, in the coalition agreement but also in the spring note, we have been able to release additional resources. That's how we train people at a fast pace. Guarding and securing is a specialist job. With the money we have now, we're training the highest number of people that we can then absorb into the organization. I don't rule out the fact that it's going to have to stay that way for the next few years. Can I add one more thing to that? I sent a letter in April on the first contours of the adaptation of the entire monitoring and security system. This was also the result of the Bos Committee, which had already been achieved last year. I'll come back with a new letter after the summer. Those are models we're looking at... In the Netherlands, we have said a bit charged again, a package of very light or very heavy. We don't have many levels in between. Countries like Italy and, no doubt, other countries, we happened to see that last week, and we've been looking at it for years now, with different packages and different levels. For those who need to be guarded and secured and always in the highest segment, it is extremely heavy. If you can go back and forth occasionally or if there are different packages and models, you can use your capacity differently and, which I also think is very important, guard and secure people in a different way, which may make it less burdensome at times. We are now explicitly looking at such elements. Two elements are very important to me. One is, I think, also relevant to this debate. I have the basic principle that I would like us to be fully serviced in both the private and the working life of someone who needs to be guarded and secured and that we can offer anything for that. That is my principled attitude. At the same time, I cannot live up to that. That's exactly what I wrote in that letter. I think that attitude is important, but I can't live up to it. I can't live up to it, primarily from the safety point of view. You can't do everything you planned to do freely and safely because of that big threat. That is a very harsh observation, but that is what it is. Even if you had so many people around you trying to protect you, we can't, and we don't have that capacity. That's one. The other thing is that we have explicitly included in the documents, and we are already in the process of listening to the experiences of the people who are being guarded and secured, in order to be able to take what they see in practice that can be done better. Because they see it every day. I will return to it in the second term. If I may mention those numbers, I'll call them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u25	Another supplementary question. Is that structural 82 million also earmarked for that additional security or is that separate from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u26	That's completely unrelated. That's really for prevention, to, with my little wiggle, prevent little boys from becoming big crooks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u27	Then Mrs Bezaan, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u29	Press the button, Mrs. Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd still like to come back to something. You have indeed just mentioned that you have been to Italy and that you have made a joint work visit there on the fight against organised and undermining crime. If I understood correctly in the press, it was said that all the Mafia's ties should be cut in detention, that this may be the most extreme form, but that this has also been discussed and that you or your colleague, Mr Seligman, I am no longer quite sure that this turning point has not yet been reached in the Netherlands. My question is when do you think that it has been achieved, as we have of course already dealt with a number of murders in recent years, which, very briefly, are of course all terrible. So once again, when do you think that turning point has been reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u31	May I ask you not to tutoy the rulers? The plural of "u" is "u."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u32	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u33	That statement comes from me, but it has not been said in that context. I'll explain it briefly. My colleague will be able to comment on the 41bis regime, the prison regime in Italy, if you have any questions. What I have said is that in recent years we have indeed had an innocent brother of a key witness who has been wound up. Before that, an online crime reporter, Kok, and then the brother, a lawyer, Derk Wiersum, and Peter R. de Vries. Many miserable things have happened around it, but these are moments that are as sharp for me as for the Italians 30 years ago Judge Falcone and Borsellino. What you see... What I think I see... I'll put it this way, because it's my observation... is that there has been a political turning point. We are now investing more than ever historically, more than one billion structuralally, in tackling organised crime. We're never gonna match the criminals' money, by the way, but that can't be your goal either. You have to bet it smart and effective. But I have not seen the change in society as I have seen it in Italy. I saw of course one, two, three weeks that we were all indignant, angry and sad, all at once, but it seems like we're going to go on again, like it's part of it. And it's never part of his life. What happened in Italy 30 years ago is that the whole society, literally, physically on the streets and everything, has risen up against organized crime. That turning point is what I meant by what I said to Mr Recourt... I think back to the wording: this is happening in your street too. For anyone outside this debate who thinks "this does not affect me": yes, this is happening in your street, it is also your mayor who is threatened. We see it in our shopping streets and on industrial sites. Organised crime can only exist if it can carry on legal flows and launder its money. That can only happen in the upper world, and that really doesn't happen in a friendly way. So really see that as a mission. We shouldn't just do that here with each other. We all have to do that outside. This is a very serious problem. That's what I meant by "turnover point." I see it very clearly in politics over the last few years. This really is a struggle of a long life. You can't lose it, and for that, you have to do everything you can. We have been working on this for years, and we are now trying to step up this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u34	Thanks for the answer. You are talking about the political turning point. When do you think the reception on the street, to put it mildly, is going to happen? I have to tell you, I have a feeling that's going on, but maybe your experience is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u35	I think it's landing wider and wider. Of course, we have also experienced very intense things that affect all Dutch people. Yet I still have the idea that most people think: this is a far-from-my-bed show and it doesn't touch me. We're talking about people being guarded and protected. I know the numbers. So I cannot say anything concrete at the moment, but I can say that this is not about hundreds, hundreds, hundreds of people. So those who are at risk for their own lives in front of us, we can almost simply point out. We know who they are. This is not about thousands of people. But you're gonna be all alone and all by yourself. So I would like us all to be much louder as well and say: there are more of us and that means that you are stronger. As Minister of Justice and Security, I cannot organise this myself, but I can say this in debates of this kind. And I hope that we are going to make that clear in several places, and that we are going to stand next to the people who are now risking their own lives and perhaps that of members of their families, and not being intimidated at all. And there will also be people who work at risk for their own lives and say: I didn't sign up for this, I quit. I have just as much respect for these people and I understand that they do. I'm just saying, it's not about thousands of people. I see a different story there in Italy. They have a very different history. I'm not going to translate all that back to the Netherlands one-on-one. I didn't mean it like that. The culture and experience with the Mafia is also completely different from what we see here. But we can't be naive. That is actually the summary of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u36	I would like to congratulate the Minister on the thorough, well-prepared response to everything that has already been discussed here. She surprises me nicely. I would like to comment on two things. One. You say, "I can't do it alone." In my speech, I said that the street of law is not an institutional matter, but is actually something of society as a whole. The rule of law is a legal community in which stakeholders, from trade unions to universities, must help everyone. And yes, that even applies to citizens. Then you're actually gonna go one step further. It is not an institutional matter, it is not just an institutional one, it is also a social one, and it belongs to all citizens. I would like the Minister to reflect on that again, now or in the second term. I would love it if we could see that in real terms: we are all in front of it. We must also continue to appeal to these professions on their own responsibility, but we must also continue to appeal to citizens: don't look away. And maybe we should throw some real national campaigns at it. Finally, I should like to draw the Minister's attention to something that was not very successful with her predecessors. In recent decades, as mayor as well, I have experienced that the undermining crime has rooted itself in our society over the last 30 years or so. She's firmly rooted there. And at first, the previous coalition agreement was thought: well, if we throw 100 million at it, or if we make one cabinet period work on it, then we must come a long way. This cabinet is doing much better, making structural and long-term resources available for it. But I actually thought, if that's 30 years gone wrong...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u37	Mr. Rombouts, can you gradually come to a conclusion on this second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u38	One more sentence. Shouldn't that approach have a deltaplanous allure, in money and time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u39	Thank you very much for the two questions. I agree with both of them, until the last sentence. But we'll come a long way together. Mr. Rombouts is talking about a community of law. Yeah, I think we're making the rule of law together. We can all discuss the rule of law here now. We can capture institutions and record them on paper. But a democracy is how you deal with each other, is social culture, is all. Actually, that's what I was trying to say. These people are in front of us in the front line. If you're standing there alone, it's lonely. And whoever's facing you, who doesn't accept what you're doing and therefore threatens you, knows exactly where to find him. I hope that over the next few years we will become more and more one block together. That is why we need the people. Keep your eyes and ears open. Make calls. It's a lot to ask, because we're talking about a form of crime that, as I just said, is ruthless. So I get that it's scary, too. We hear people from different professions say: I want to get up, but then they also know exactly where to find me. It is therefore our responsibility to set that up properly, so that there is protection, so that the legislation is there. In addition, we have to say: I'm protecting you, we've already made the decisions here, you do it, so if anyone gets mad about that, they should be with us and not with you. That's how it's supposed to go. But eventually, in the core, we have to do it together. I couldn't agree more. We are not going to solve the problem of organised crime in our term. I don't think you can completely wipe out organized crime. In any case, that is not the objective we are setting, because that would be an unachievable goal. I believe that, in addition to protecting people, harsh punishments where necessary and prevention, our main goal is to make our country less attractive to this crime. It now pays to trade through the Netherlands. I think we should do everything we can to make this less rewarding, so that it is less attractive. I would like it very much if we could do that together with our colleagues in Europe, so that they do not go to our neighbours afterwards. Then I come to the last sentence about the delta plan. I was hoping to radiate a little delta plan to show that we're really on top of it, just with all those pillars and because we're putting everything on top of it. I hope there is also the confidence that the way we set it up now is really quite solid. Perhaps I should add one more thing, although I will answer a little less, Mr President. I have just come from the Ministerial Committee on Approaching Undermining, which we have recently set up. It was the second time we've been together. We're actually sitting there with almost the entire cabinet, because this is hitting everyone's wallet. Members were already working on this from their own responsibility, but now we are looking much more closely and more specifically at what someone is going to do for a particular part, whether it is about money laundering, prevention in schools and so on. I am very confident that this approach, with all the goals we link to it, will bring even more together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u40	Thank you for this introduction. The word "earning power" just fell. Just now the word "Zuidas" also fell. Isn't it even much simpler? That earning capacity has been built up in drug trafficking for 30 years. To what extent is there still a relationship between the fight against drugs and the cause of, in particular, soft drug trafficking? How will the pilot contribute in this respect to the reduction of the repressive approach? Are you going to come to that or is your colleague doing that? Is that what you're doing together or is that what the ministerial committee is doing? I'm asking you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u41	No, I'm perfectly capable of responding to that. An evaluation follows at the end of the coffee shop experiment. In this we will assess it on prevention, health care and safety. These three criteria are also mentioned in the coalition agreement. We're going to assess how it turned out on those elements. Then we know how that will or will not contribute. I cannot say anything about that now, because we are still at the beginning of it. Hopefully that'll give us an image. Then there are two other elements, because this is a very relevant question from Mr Backer. He says: but the cause is drugs, so how about that? Ultimately, global demand for drugs maintains a certain supply and a certain system. That's obvious. But that's global. Between 85% and 95% of what comes into our country, our country is leaving again. For example, you could change your policy in the Netherlands or with your neighbours. There are discussions from legalization to an even harder approach and criminalising everything. All that can be done, but I do not think that the difference is going to be made for what we are talking about, because most of us are leaving our country again. The market is not in the Netherlands. We are a transit country where a lot of money is actually made from those drugs, but also from money laundering to the other side of the world. Those elements are there. We know that soft drugs are also seen by some criminal cartels and organisations as a stepping stone, like: I'm getting in. We also know entrepreneurs who say: let me do this legally and in a normal way; I have nothing else to do with it. Hopefully the experiment will provide the guarantee for that later, but we need to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u42	Two brief follow-up questions. One. The two circuits are connected. So one is not the other, but only exports are relevant to the question I am asking. Two. Your answer fits perfectly in the way we handle that pilot, but could also be given four years ago. We really haven't made much progress. Are you going to speed this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u43	This is a valid point. I've heard that a lot in the past few years when I was in the Chamber myself. Then colleagues said: pace, pace! The pilot is a duo production from Health and Safety. Mr Kuipers and I said at the very beginning, in our first week, that we are looking at the objectives of the coalition agreement and what has already been done; at least it will not be up to us, because it simply has to be in accordance with the agreements. We have accelerated everything that could be accelerated, and yet it is not fast, I can tell you. I know that there is a great need, especially with certain parties, to be able to do it faster. We've assessed everything. We are also doing this in close consultation with, for example, the police, the judiciary and the municipalities. You also want when you build up such a system that you know it's delineated, that it's okay, so you can start the experiment with the people who are going to participate in it. There are all kinds of deadlines. We cut them down to the extent that they were all accounted for. The coalition agreement also states that a large municipality must be added. That's what we're looking for right now. It's nice that we came up with that in the coalition agreement, but we can't force municipalities. So we are now looking for municipalities that can participate in the existing conditions. There are cities that would like to participate, but under different conditions. We also say that this cannot be done, because then you will never be able to judge it. But the short answer is: it is certainly not going fast enough if Mr Backer might want to, but we have done everything we can to avoid any delay that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u44	The Minister began by saying that, above all, we must serve the citizens in a practical way. That is why I dare to ask a practical question. That is actually the downside of money laundering legislation and everything the Minister has said very well about it. Over the past week, I found in several newspapers the message that migrant churches are having more and more trouble and sometimes it is not possible at all to open another bank account. That is the downside of this legislation. Does the minister have that on the retina? I saw those churches even started talking about ethnic profiling. Of course, we shouldn't have that at all. Are those things on the retina, too? How could we avoid those excesses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u45	In this example in particular, I will go into more detail, because I am not ready to do so. I know that, for example, our security services and the police say that they are difficult to intervene because they have all the legislation that has been rigged with their hands behind their backs. On the other hand, you've sometimes rigged up legislation that unintentionally brings together excellent initiatives that you don't want to touch. Then we always try to see how you can adapt it so that at least an exception is made. It won't always be possible. I'll have to add that. That's very annoying. I must return to this example. I don't know it, but I do know the problem. We have to be honest about that. It can also happen that you really build something solid to hit those criminals, which also makes it more difficult.It should not become impossible not to touch well-meaning people who have nothing to do with that kind of thing. We always have to be alert about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u46	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u47	The Minister? That's fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u48	Let's see if you had anything to say, but you didn't. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u49	I did not ask this question in the first term, because I saw that message last week. I would appreciate it if the Minister could come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u50	I'm gonna try in the second term. If that does not work, I will give you a letter anyway, which states how we deal with it or what our analysis of it is. So I'm gonna see how far we're getting today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u51	As a result, I have a question for the Minister. We all know that a huge compliance industry has been rigged by the financial institutions. That's where tens of thousands of people work now. That's a billion-dollar cost. We can, I think, all talk about it as PEPs, Politically Exposed Persons. How many big bad guys have you captured over the last few years? 'Cause I think I missed that for a while. Don't miss his goal, my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u52	In the meantime, I'm looking for the answer about the PEPs, because I have it here somewhere. That falls under my colleague from the Treasury. So, if Mr Otten is okay with it, I will come back to it gradually, because I am going to say something that does not add up at all. I can say in advance that we are looking at this critically, because we see that it occasionally misses its goal. But I'll get to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u53	You'll get back to me. Let's not do the whole path twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u54	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u55	So far, you've only responded to any interruptions. I suggest we give the Minister a chance to keep part of her story. Perhaps even some of the answers that you would otherwise have liked to repeat in the event of interruption from your first term will already be answered by the Minister. It's possible. Perhaps you have completed some of your response by means of interruptions as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u56	Yes. I'm almost done with undermining and then I get to the freedom of the press. In any case, I am brief on freedom of the press, as my colleague, the Secretary of State, is very much concerned about this. Mr Recourt has asked about the facilitators of organized crime or of criminals as a result of undermining, I must say. Their approach is part of what we all do about organised crime. Crime facilitators can be tackled in different ways: criminal law, administrative law, tax law and/or disciplinary action. Maybe it's good to point out what we're talking about. These kinds of constructions and criminal merits cannot exist without people helping them, whether they are notaries, brokers or people in the banking sector. That can be unintentional, that can be accidental, that can be conscious and that can be because one is sucked in in a certain way. Either way you have facilitators. There are all kinds of ways to pay attention to that. What I personally consider important is my plan for broadening the key witness scheme. That's what I'm hoping to get back here after the summer. Now it's true that we're actually only taking out the big fish, because it has to pay to make a deal like that with someone. You can't do that unless you've got a high sentence ahead of you. I want us to be able to do that with people in the network, in the chain, so you can get them out sooner and hopefully roll up the network sooner. So I will come back with a proposal on this shortly. Mr Nicolaï asked if the Minister could reflect on the extent to which using Dutch legislation facilitates a group that is internationally referred to as kleptocrates. That was, among other things, about the letterbox companies, that's how I interpreted it, and all the elements we were just talking about. Their approach is indeed part of the approach to money laundering. In doing so, we work very closely with Finance, and if you zoom in very closely, the implementation will be mainly with Finance. But there is absolutely increased attention to it. After this summer, we are coming up with a re-examined plan of anti-money laundering, which also calls for a strong focus on high-risk sectors and such elements. I have heard Mr Nicolaï's input very well. We're trying to get all those elements back in there. I will also ensure that the plan of action is sent to your Chamber, if that is appreciated. Then it might just be that we're going to talk about that. It is therefore being worked hard to sharpen and recalibrate this. Mrs De Blécourt had a question about coalition agreement funds. A lot of money has been made available for that. She asked how you make sure this is spent properly and efficiently. That would be nice. I also think that was the intention. The coalition agreement strengthens the approach. A lot of money had already been released and extra money was being released. We are doing this by making an amount available from 2023 up from 40 million to 100 million and then structurally also 100 million. That comes on top of the billion we already had and on top of the resources that were available with Princess' Day. It's a lot of money, let me put it this way. We must, of course, spend it as effectively and efficiently as possible. We do this by taking into account the impact and feasibility of the plans for the different partners. This means that the plans are always worked out in cooperation and that we always get what we need in practice. We have the best people in the world in our country, I really believe, when it comes to detectives, cyber detectives, financial investigations, but also at the state's attorney's office and everywhere. That's what we're picking up: what helps you and how can we use it as effectively as possible? And I repeat, I also think you should be able to measure it. The moment you think it's not gonna work out the way we want it to, you have to have the guts to say we're gonna do something else. We shouldn't get caught up in what we've come up with, because we've come up with it, and because otherwise it would be failure. Criminals are a lot more flexible than the government, you won't be surprised. They do not comply with national borders and, of course, they do not comply with all the laws that we have established. The moment they see that we are focusing on this, they will do their business there, so we must also be flexible. If anything works right, you're gonna roll it out. And if it doesn't work right, you say it, and then you do something else. In this way a short answer, although the question was of course much more fundamental. Then there was a question from the VVD about the letter of 26 April on the main lines of the fight against crime. It states that we must work smartly with all those involved and that new innovative initiatives and partnerships are included. What initiatives and partnerships are these, for example? A few weeks ago in Zeeland I opened the Strategic Knowledge Centre Undermining Crime, the SKC. This has been set up to draw up threat images to identify new developments and trends, which can then be taken directly into account in the approach. For those who go to Zeeland once, live there or make a work visit: go there. They're really doing international research there. One charts currents and, just as I just said, can see which way flows are changing. On that basis one can then switch and act. It's very interesting what they do and what they do there. We also have the National Fenomeen Tables, in which public and private partners pool their knowledge. For example, they look at problems in the real estate chain and really zoom in on them. Since not so long ago, we also have National Cooperation against Undermining Crime, the NSOC, if it doesn't have an abbreviation that sounds very strange, then it doesn't exist. NSOC is the former MIT, which we are now rebuilding, of course with police, OM, Customs, Tax Service, FIOD and Defense. Information is shared to investigate and expose undermining criminal phenomena and the underlying structures. This is very much aimed at specific forms of money laundering, for example. With those parties, I'm looking at whether you can share that information by means of agreements or whether it requires legislation. If so, then of course I'm back here again. But there are also questions from the VVD on which I will return. I'm with the press folder now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u57	But Mr Talsma first has a question on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u58	I already saw a movement by the minister who suggested that the folder undermining was over, so I rushed forward. As far as my group is concerned, an important element, in the sense of the rule of law, of undermining crime, is corruption: flat customs officers, flat agents, flat civil servants and so on. I actually miss the vision of the cabinet at the moment in the debate. I hear a lot of ambitions. I would like to say to the Minister that I also have great appreciation for this. But what is the government's commitment to the fight against corruption? Does that mean more bet on the state police, more money for the state police, more money for the police VIK departments? Is the Minister prepared to share some thoughts on this now? Is the Minister also prepared to include the examples and ideas from her Italian work visit, and also to look at Scandinavian countries such as Sweden?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u59	In all these questions, let me at least promise that, although we are already doing some of it, we will specifically involve a country such as Sweden. I will come back to that later, I think in a letter. Of course, I can answer the parts we're already doing. This is, of course, crucial. It is already visible in many places, but it became most visible to me years ago when I made several work visits as MP at the Rotterdam harbour. Of course, this happens in all ports. That's where ships with containers come in. If you want what's in there as a criminal, you're gonna need corrupt exhalers. I noticed the following. Some people want to make money fast or they're criminals. Others think: I give someone my pass once. Either they're under pressure, or their families are under threat. The behavior and expression is corrupt, but if you look at what was behind it, there is a whole range of motives. At the ports one focuses very much on making the people who work there resilient, for example by making sure that you do not have to check in in the morning with a pass. Because then you're very vulnerable. Anyone sees you have a pass like that, you get pressured, you get money, or they both do, to give away your pass every day for two hours or whatever. In ports, there is a great deal of investment in the front to prevent these situations from arising at all. This is done with innovation and through technological development, to better protect people. Not everyone needs to be protected. There are also people who are actively involved in this. You have to be able to act firmly against that. We are, indeed, doing so, by means of additional investments. I will bring this together, if that's all right, and take it with us how we look at other countries. I don't think I can do this before the summer, but just after the summer, I'll come back with a letter. Then I'm in freedom of the press. Your Chamber has indicated its strong desire to reflect on the position of journalists, and rightly so, particularly from the point of view of organised crime, but also much wider. Mrs Nanninga said in her speech that we know each other from a different time. Many journalists cannot now be identified on the streets without being harassed, just because of the broadcasting they work for, whatever items they make there. That's what gets me. It's been affecting me for years. I am extremely grateful that I am now in a position where I can do something extra, on top of everything that has already been done. Last year, the Netherlands jumped from the 6th to the 28th place at the World Press Freedom Index. Lists of course don't say anything at all, until you start thinking about what that means, why that is so and what's behind it. Then you know that there are journalists, and quite a lot of them, from all kinds of angles, who really pay attention to whether they go across the street or not. I also know journalists who can't go anywhere without security. That is not personal security, but if they are going to run an item, people are being sent from the broadcasters or from the newspaper. This falls under the category that should affect all of us. I say it all the time: that should wake us all up too. Maybe it's a little weird when I'm really interfering in the way you sleep, but this isn't supposed to make us sleep well. We see an aggressive attitude towards journalists on the streets, online, in all kinds of places, but you never know if someone will eventually act on that aggression or not. I also know journalists who say they just don't bring certain stories because they're not worth it. This is a form of self-censorship that should not be possible under the rule of law. I understand that they are making that assessment, but it is, of course, terrible if you have to make that assessment in a rule of law like ours. That's what gets me. Mr. Chairman. I don't have to explain what hits me. That is very nice, but you do not care; you want to know what we are doing about it. The Secretary of State for Culture and Media will also elaborate on it. The Secretary of State, the journalistic sector and myself are working together to make it as safe as possible for journalists and to ensure their freedom as far as possible. We do that in different ways. I will mention a number of them. The Dutch Association of Journalists, the Society of Editors, Police and OM started the project PressSafely in 2019. Within PressSafely, agreements have been made on the prosecution and detection of violence against journalists. PressSafe also offers training and legal support and maintains an online hotline. The European Media Freedom Rapid Response project has consistently identified PressSafely as best practice. It is good that other countries can look at that as well. I come to the questions and the answers I have before me on a number of other concrete elements of what we are already doing. I thought I'd do it on the basis of the questions. The first question I have before me is from Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u60	Shall we see if the Minister will answer your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u61	I have a new question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u62	Then I give you the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u63	I have a question. Maybe the minister will come up, but she was just talking about unacceptable threats to journalists. That is a point that we have also raised in the past. But I also pointed out in my first term the large number of anonymous trolls. Is she gonna come back to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u64	The minister's gonna come up with that. Maybe we could give the minister a chance to make a few meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u65	I'm sure I'll get to that. It is a good test to see if we have all the questions, but we have had quite some time to study all the questions properly. I think I got them all. Mr Otten started by saying: people are afraid to give their opinions and freedom of expression is threatened, so what is the cabinet going to do to secure, guard and promote that freedom? It is clear that the cabinet stands for freedom of expression. It is absolutely unacceptable for individuals to be threatened or intimidated by what they write or what they find or pronounce in the public debate. As a cabinet, therefore, we will again and again oppose such threats and intimidations. That sounds obvious, just as we are expressing ourselves here, but I think we should always do so, even here, with as many people as possible. I think that's the only way to explain what you don't accept in society. That's the only way to make it clear to the front. But, of course, we must do everything we can to prevent or tackle such threats. We were talking extensively about monitoring and security and about the development, modernisation and adaptation of the system. I have said all this in relation to the security of journalists who need it. I will not repeat that now. We have resilience funds, with which we finance various resilience-enhancing initiatives. We have our cooperation with PressSafe. I think it's important, because I was the initiator myself, but also for another reason. The freelance journalists came to us years ago. They have said: it's very nice that it's all being formalized and that the security is being regulated from big media giants, but I'm more freelanced, so people do stand in front of me when it really comes to it and it's already this far, but I don't have the means to temporarily move somewhere else or to secure my house. Together we have created a game for which freelancers can sign up if they need it. So it goes from a great basic approach to these kinds of things, which seem small, but for example for freelancers are very important. The self-censorship I just referred to came from a freelancer who said: it's just not worth it anymore, although I do think those stories are being brought. Then you have to do everything you can to make sure that you can. That is what you do and by saying to all of you that it is unacceptable that you threaten journalists and by making sure that there is money and there are ways of securing it. Mrs De Blécourt asked: how does the cabinet ensure that journalists can do their work freely? As I said, we have a partnership with PressSafely, we monitor and secure, we ensure that there is a protection package for freelancers and we ensure that all these elements are in order. PressSecurely financially supported by my colleague Uslu and myself. There is something very important that applies to more professions, but certainly to these: we are working hard to criminalise the disclosure of personal data with the aim of intimidation, better known by the ugly word "doxing." The criminalization of that is coming. It was flown directly into us by journalists and policemen, for example. They have said: this must be criminalized; you must protect me better. Well, then we'll get right to it. That comes to this room, too. Then I come to the questions about guarantees of freedom versus threat of self-censorship by Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u66	I just had a question about the Minister's plans. Is the GDPR not enough for that? Is it really explicitly added to the sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u67	Yes. We are now busy with the question of what exactly that should look like. But we saw in practice "we" and "we" are mainly people who suffered from it themselves and suddenly saw their name and address coming online "we need more tools to really act effectively." That's the bottom line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u68	Thanks for the answer so far. Exactly on this subject, doxing and anonymity, at least the address details, I have a question. Is the details of the Chamber of Commerce also provided? As an eenpitter, you have to go in there and it causes a lot of trouble for freelancers and really not only when you write about serious crimes. If you write for a magazine about parenting, you can already fall into flames where people just look it up at the KVK and throw it online and then you get 800 pizzas worried or worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u69	A very relevant question. I have also been very concerned about this as a Member of Parliament, also because journalists, and during corona, for example, doctors and so on, have been calling on us. This is drawn by my colleague from EZK. He's working on that right now. There's been some changes now, so you can say if there's a threat, it has to go away. Personally, I think that's too late, but it turns out to be very complicated. I thought it would be a little easier. A framework for this is now being worked out from EZK to ensure that you can go one step further, at least for the professions that we know have a lot to do with it. So that's what my colleague Adriaansens is working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u70	I am very pleased with that. It is, of course, too late when you are already threatened, because your name, phone number and address will already be on the internet. Is it also integrated into the approach that the Minister just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u71	Of doxing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u72	Of anti-doxing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u73	No, that's not in the bill on doxing, but it's all happening in the context of protecting and protecting people, and if it's supposed to protect people who, as I always say, serve our rule of law. I do have close contact with EZK, because of course it hits one-on-one with everything we discuss here. I'm still with Mrs. Nanninga. Following on from the previous point, the question of what the Minister can and will do to ensure freedom for all. We have already said most of this because of the interruptions. I think it's good to repeat that we're gonna do everything and we're gonna keep up the good work and we're gonna keep up the good work. Again, it only works if we are all outraged at the moment it happens. I remember times, including colleagues in the Chamber, when a journalist was told: yes, but if you're gonna stand with such a pink pop cap, aren't you asking for it? I can't believe you're looking at that class like that. A journalist is a journalist and he can ask and write down whatever he wants. You can find a lot of that, but there's never any threat, never a nuance. Then I'll get to the criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u74	I do not know what the precise division of tasks you have provided with the Minister for Media today is, but I would also like to ask you this question. You have mentioned the security of journalists: good cause and self-censorship should not be necessary. I totally agree with that. But there is also a downside to which I have drawn attention. This was also discussed in the preliminary discussions here with Professor Brouwer and in the main editorial comments of the NRC. The downside is that journalism is also sensitive to the lure of mistrust. And that journalists may also have some self-reflection and be self-critical and not too complacent, as Professor Brouwer told us in the preparatory discussion. They should be aware of the effects of publications they are considering. Is that something you leave to the colleague or can this Chamber also ask you when this conversation with journalists is being conducted as a professional? And perhaps you could join us in that conversation to say what we agreed on earlier: the rule of law belongs to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u75	This is primarily a question for Secretary of State Uslu. Since I was explicitly asked a question, I can say something from my role. I think there should be a very clear limit to how we interfere with journalism from a political point of view, from all the roles we have here. That limit should never be gray. That's a little complicated about this question. I can imagine Mrs Uslu going into more detail, but the moment I had such a conversation, my question to the journalists would be: what more do you need to do your job properly? This is also covered by the actual test and the bringing of the facts. It can only come back to me when it comes to crippling, damaging, undermining fake news. Of this category we can also point out why it is so problematic. Everything else I do not interfere with from my role, because freedom of the press is freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u76	Will this minister really suffice to say: what do you, journalists, need from me? Will she not ask the question I actually wanted to raise: can we also count on you when it comes to the effects of publications on our rule of law? Shouldn't you be rehearsing? Shouldn't you do a double check, triple check and also think about the effects of publications on judges, about...?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u77	I understand. I think this is really coming into JenV's picture when it comes to undermining, damaging fake news. If I am not mistaken, I will come back to that later. This is a recurring issue, and it has only become stronger in recent years. As far as the other question is concerned, I belong to the school which believes that this is mainly a discussion between the reader and the journalist. This is also where society is concerned. Maybe I'm skipping a lot of elements that Mrs Uslu is working on, so I'm gonna keep my mouth shut before I go into that and find out it wasn't right. I'm in the criminal justice chain now, because I get it. I had a question from GroenLinks about that. Where are we with extra funding towards the criminal justice chain and justice? Fortunately, from the coalition agreement, real money has now been released for the whole chain. It's very common in politics. I've done the same myself, to say police; we want more blue in the street, so we need to invest in police. Then, of course, it sticks if you don't invest in the whole chain. Moreover, we can also invest more in the police. Additional resources for the criminal justice chain have been made available by the previous cabinet through the Hermans motion and through the additional resources for the fight against organised undermining crime. In addition, there are additional resources in the coalition agreement of the current cabinet. So we've cleared a lot of money in three steps. At the moment, all the resources are still on the supplementary item in the state budget, because we are talking to the organisations concerned to see how to use them most effectively. There is a lot of money, but the organisations are right to say that they need more money. This is what we have now. How can you use that as effectively as possible? The starting point is that the impact will be taken into account as much as possible in the regular budgetary decision-making process. The next moment is expected when the incidental supplementary budget is presented to the Chamber at the end of June. When the plans are ready sooner or later, we will act accordingly. We would like the plans to come directly from the practice, so that we know how to really add something. As a result, Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks asked: what has the Minister done in concrete terms with the recommendations of the investigation on continuity of police funding, OM and justice? In the letter from me and my colleague for Legal Protection of 20 April 2022, the First Chamber was informed in detail about what has been done with the recommendations since the publication of the investigation. The investigation was initiated at the time by the WODC following a motion by member Rosenmöller. The report contains a large number of recommendations, which are very different in character. My predecessor asked the administrative chain council for the criminal justice chain, where all those parties are at the table, to advise on these recommendations. The Ministry also looked at the recommendations in this way. With the advice that I attached to my letter to your Chamber, we, as a ministry, have been working together with the chain organisations. Let me briefly mention the four main points. The first is to keep a close eye on potential bottlenecks in the funding systems of organisations in the rule of law. The second is gradual investment and austerity in order to take better account of what is coming towards you. The third is to examine whether forms of chain financing can be applied more frequently. The latter is an early reflection of the effects of new policies or regulations on the organisations in the chain. That sounds like open doors, but we didn't do that very well. You know that. That's what we do with that. In the criminal justice chain, Mr Recourt had the question: is the cabinet prepared to allow a criminal to carry out his duties? It was a public service ban: why do you still maintain it, because the judge loses the autonomy to be able to judge for himself? What I am going to answer will not surprise Mr Recourt. The cabinet is also of the opinion that the judge should be able to deliver customary work in order to reach a fair judgment. As far as we are concerned, this is no different from the proposal to extend the public service ban. There is already a community service ban in the case of serious violent and sexual crimes. This is now being extended. The enlargement that we are now proposing is about violence against people with a public role, who are in a situation where withdrawal is not possible. This is about policemen, firefighters, aid workers, who are facing severe violence, while they are trying to help or protect others. Let me just say that aggression against aid workers, policemen and firefighters is totally unacceptable. We're looking together for what else you can do to get ahead of it and make sure you really do it. This is also the legal basis for a public service ban, which leaves room for the courts to take into account the interests and personal circumstances of the offender in the punishment. The proposal is currently pending in your Chamber. I guess we're gonna talk about this anyway. Mr Recourt looks as if I have fully convinced him, so that will be fine. No one believes that, but it doesn't matter, it's nice for the minutes. Then I'll be with Mr. Backer. Then it's about the continuity organizations chain of law. As I have just said, we are looking at how we can secure that well and land it properly. We know that there are still a lot of deficits for the time being. For example, we can see this in the lead times. We are doing everything we can to ensure that we have a multi-annual approach to reducing delays in the criminal justice chain and investing money in a good way. Then I'm with the police folder. Our cops are really under a lot of pressure. Let me say this first, although we have been able to share it more often in this Chamber over the past few months. They do incredibly good work. We have seen over the past few years how they with little capacity are investing heavily, but there are still shortages day and night for us, for our security and for our freedom to be ready. I don't think we can repeat that enough times, so it's always good to bring it up when we call the police. They get a lot to endure, even from society. Of all the elements we just talked about, from doxing to other things, policemen are incredibly troubled. And yet, the next morning, they'll be back in front of us when we need them. I have a lot of respect for that. Mr Rombouts had asked when the standard of 1 district agent per 5,000 inhabitants would be applied. I'm gonna call some numbers. Basically, we're already here. On 31 December 2021, there were 3,603 district agents. On the basis of the population density at that date, there should be 3,518 to meet the standard. That means we had 85 district agents above the norm nationwide. The national standard is applied at unitary level by the mayors concerned and the chief prosecutor. They have the space to fill in the standard contextual. That means one unit can have relatively many district agents and another unit less. We also get this question very often from the House of Representatives and society. I get the question. In fact, we've reached the norm, but I've had conversations with the mayors, the police and the D.A.'s office about this. After all, there is a reason why that question is being asked. It is a question of division, so one must be aware of that and pay close attention to it. That's a recurring conversation. The norm is just a standard, but it's about everyone feeling like there's police around when they need it. That's a recurring focus, on top of all the investments we make for extra agents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u78	What good news! Then why was it in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u79	I think that is what we meant by that: we hold on to the ambition that we have to. I'll be at the VVD. He had a relevant question about the National Unity. Of course, there has been an incredible amount of news about that and that was not all such happy news. In recent times there has been a lot of attention to social insecurity in parts of the National Unity. That insecurity that was experienced there needs to be addressed. There's no discussion about that. It is a good thing that I have also said in the House of Representatives and in the media to emphasize that there are also parts of the National Unity where things are going very well. Even within the parts where things are not going well, there are also people who do their job day and night according to conscience. I am very proud of the results achieved by these police officers throughout that unit. Take the footage we all remember of the hostage situation in the Applestore that night I also stood here and the intervention by DSI. That is also part of the National Unity. There is a huge diversity of organisations and people. However, we cannot ignore the fact that there really is a need for a cultural change. There's gonna be a lot of change in the unit. We know this from independent investigations that my predecessor has launched and the results of which are coming this year. We will soon receive the opinion of the Schneiders Committee, which contains concrete recommendations that will help us to realize that cultural change in the National Unity and to create peace. We have to take care of everyone who works there, often under very difficult circumstances. This has to do with covert work; the most difficult category of police work. If you don't take good care of your people, it can also be the most lonely category. Of course, we don't want that. The Schneiders Committee will come up with the final opinion. We have asked the committee to follow the route for the coming year and to advise us to make sure that it goes well. In addition, I have one more addition. Because it's often about covert work, it's very difficult to get help outside your own organization. Because you can't talk about a lot of things, because then you put yourself and your colleagues in danger. At the request of the House of Representatives, among others from the PVV, we have said: we are going to put an external committee next to it that offers the possibility of using help in a safe way, if you look at the kind of work you do. So for all those elements, we put everything on top of everything. Mr Rombouts asked: what are the leaders' views on the structural approach of notaries, police, lawyers to their reflective capacity? Then you're actually gonna come to the facilitators we were talking about. I believe that this is not only intended for organised crime, but wider. After all, we know that crime only pays if you can then launder your money, if you can get rid of it somewhere. And then you're gonna need a lot of people to do that. Within a strong rule of law, structural attention to the learning capacity of organisations, business sectors and officials is very important. This also applies, of course, to the learning and reflective capacity of the police. Those are all elements that are being given a great deal of attention. On the specific questions about notaries and lawyers, my colleague for Legal Protection will be coming back soon. I'll be at the BES Islands folder. GroenLinks asked the question "We'll come back a little bit to how we started this "how trustworthy it really is if parts of the rule of law don't work for citizens in certain areas of the Kingdom." Our democratic rule of law must, of course, be there for everyone. That's the point. You can't be selective about that. Within the Kingdom, each country has its own responsibility for ensuring and promoting the rule of law. As far as we are concerned, the maintenance of the rule of law is never done. It's never completed and it deserves constant attention. That is also the constant conversation we have with our colleagues. We are shaping this through cooperation in the administrative and judicial fields, and we are also providing assistance where necessary. If the rule of law is inadequate for citizens in countries within the Kingdom, then it has strong political and administrative attention. Perhaps it is a good thing to say that we have a judicial four-party dialogue twice a year, with the aim of strengthening the rule of law of the countries. Next week we will have another such consultation. Those are elements that come back to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u80	It is not entirely clear to me whether the Minister makes the distinction between the countries and the BES islands sufficiently clear. I hear her speak mostly about the countries. In my view, the question was also very specific about the BES islands in relation to the General Law on Equal Treatment and the like. In the countries, of course, there is the fundamental question of international agreements concluded by the Kingdom, where we sometimes did not or did not regulate cooperation in the countries. The question is whether we are aiming for greater uniformity in this area. The BES islands are really a different situation, because they are covered by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u81	The element of the international treaties will be included in my second term. That was the joker I used for that. I will answer the specific question of GroenLinks on the General Equal Treatment Act straight away. That's BZK. BZK is leading a lot of these parts. We are of course leading on a number of parts, but BZK is leading on a lot of other parts. Equal treatment legislation consists of a number of laws prohibiting discrimination on the grounds set out therein. During the modification of the political status of the Caribbean Netherlands on 10-10-2010, due to the legislative reluctance, it was chosen not to apply this legislation to the islands of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. BZK is in the process of exploring the possibility of introducing equal treatment legislation in the Caribbean Netherlands before the end of the year. If there are any additional questions, I'll take them with me later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u82	Let me ask you a few more questions on this point. The legislative restraint is, of course, an important factor. The question is how to ensure that a small community is not overloaded with legislation. On the other hand, the Ombudsman has rightly pointed out that this principle is being abused in all kinds of ways when we do not provide a material level of protection for citizens. That's another thing. That is something other than saying that all the rules must be identical. How do you ensure that the citizens of the BES islands do not have a lower level of protection than the citizens here in the Netherlands? On this point, I would like a more fundamental statement from the government than a comment on legislative restraint.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u83	I propose that I ask my colleague from BZK to come back to that in writing, because it really is there. There are constant discussions going on there, so I think it is a good thing that there is a concrete discussion not only on 'what do we think of it as a matter of principle', but also on 'what do we do and what are we doing to ensure that that level is reached'. That's with BZK's colleague, so I'll pass that on right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u84	Then may I supplement that letter with this? Perhaps this Minister can, because this is one of the issues at issue because in the preparatory meeting not only the Ombudsman but also the President of the Supreme Court said: how can fundamental rights be implemented differently within one country, the Netherlands? Because the treaty applies in one part of the Netherlands and not in the other. These are treaties that regulate fundamental rights. Would you like to comment on that in that letter, or can you now reply to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u85	Both. In the letter we can go into much more detail, but in the end the basic principle is that it should not be at all. Our rule of law, our principles and our frameworks apply to everyone. What are you doing the moment you see it's not like that everywhere? That's what we're talking about, of course. Twice a year we have discussions with our colleagues there. That's really about justice, tackling corruption and all those elements. But very fundamental: in this conversation, BZK is leading. That is why I would like to ask my colleague to comment on this rather than say that I agree with you. 'Cause that's nice, but it doesn't do you much good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u86	Still a little bit of confusion. The six-monthly consultation is, I think, with the countries and this is about the BES.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u87	Yes. I think we understand each other well now. I'll see what I can come back to in second term, and I'll leave everything under BZK there with a good letter to your room. Then we can continue the conversation about that. Then I'll get to the law. At least we'll get to the PEPs. We've already talked about that. 50PLUS and Mr Otten just asked about it. We also had Mrs Baay's personal example. On the basis of the Wwft, banks and financial institutions are obliged to apply enhanced customer research. I think we all sound very logical, but then you have that PEP story. I know I've heard that from a lot of people; in our profession you know quite a lot of them that some of the PEPs say "some" here, but there are more than some of them around it that are perceived as uncomfortable and disproportionate. This is reflected, among other things, in a study which was recently sent to the House of Representatives on behalf of the Minister of Finance. That was, I think, a few weeks ago. It says here "yesterday," but now I don't know if this is my text from three weeks ago or today. So it's been sent to the Chamber somewhere in the last few weeks. I can give you the exact date later. Finding that a person qualifies as PEP is still reasonably practicable for most institutions. But the subsequent application of enhanced customer research is referred to as disproportionate and also experienced. Interviewed PEPs recognise the importance of preventing money laundering and financing terrorism, but find the measures and delivering a multitude of personal information really disproportionate. It is a good thing that research should clarify where the measure is mostly involved, so that we can see, in conjunction with those involved, whether targeted measures can partially eliminate the problems. In short, there has really been an investigation into this. The Minister of Finance is working on it. We know the signals. It looks at how to keep the instrument alive. It was good for something, and at the same time it can remove these kinds of bottlenecks, so it just works for those who need it to work for. The Netherlands also highlights the practical impact of this obligation on the Wwft institutions and domestic PEPs in the ongoing European negotiations, so that we can ensure this in a proper way later. The Minister of Finance will then come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u88	In the second term, I would like to hear from the Minister what the exact date of the letter sent to the House of Representatives was.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u89	Yes. I thought maybe I already have it here, but no. Yes, I will. Finally, I come to the other very important questions. GroenLinks said that our rule of law is in crisis and asked how we feel about it. I do not believe that I share GroenLinks' conclusion that there is a major crisis in the rule of law. The Netherlands has a strong and high-quality rule of law, which we cherish and protect and defend where necessary. This is not only demonstrated by international comparisons, in which the Netherlands consistently scores high scores. It also shows... We also see this in the enormous commitment and high quality of the work of all servants of the rule of law, which we look forward to day in and day out. So that's about police officers, prosecutors, judges, parole officers, and I can name a lot more. It is true that I can see where the question comes from, that our rule of law is, at times, really shocked and under pressure. I just talked about the murders. An attack, a murder of a lawyer puts a lot of pressure on your rule of law. There can be no doubt about that. And so, unfortunately, we know more examples. There are also real people who are undermining and destroying our rule of law. That too is a fact. As far as I am concerned, that is why we are here tonight and this afternoon: to defend our rule of law. I do believe that our rule of law is resilient and learns from mistakes made, shows self-awareness. I now call attacks from outside, but we have also made mistakes as a rule of law and as institutions themselves. I'm not ruling out that we'll ever make mistakes again. The important thing is that you acknowledge them, appoint them and then get on with them. The premium affair is, I think, one of the most visible examples of recent years, but not the only one. You don't have to run away from that either. You have to make sure that you recover, not only towards the victims, but also towards your own institutions to prevent more victims. We will continue to invest in this. You just have to be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u90	That was, of course, exactly the tone of Mrs Karimi's question. Yes, there are outside attacks, but Mrs Karimi's question was exactly this one. Hasn't the government itself in recent years allowed confidence in the rule of law to deteriorate, let me put it this way: 'undermining' sounds much too active not only because of the way in which problems have arisen, but also because of the way in which we have looked away, the effects of gas drilling, the supplementing affair, etc.? Isn't the way in which the government is slow to act on these issues today exactly one of the reasons why that trust in the rule of law is under severe pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u91	I agree with that. I also consider the choice of words to be very careful, so I can also agree with it. The "getting formed," you're there yourself. Of course, you do have an active role. It is right that it should be called that. If we all saw what happened, with our noses on top, and had recognized and seen that, we would of course have acted much earlier. I believe in that. You have to look at all your institutions. I can take particular responsibility for the part that we stand for and for which we can bear responsibility, but it is much wider. The examples cited involve much more institutions. Everyone has to look inside the house: how did this develop and how did it go on for so long? That's what you absolutely need to learn from. What I see, too, is that the recovery is much less rapid than you'd like. Abandonment of trust unfortunately goes quickly and the recovery is much slower. Also in our institutions, and then to set things up so carefully that you meet the people who have been harmed. I couldn't agree more. I think that no one should accept that it is going to be all right until it is all done, until everything is done and done to meet people. You can't take away all the suffering, unfortunately. That's slow. That only has that I would like to add that I do not see that from the inside now, very clearly with the idea that it is not considered important or "well, that works like that." There are very hard ways to do it right, but that is sometimes very complex. You can see I'm looking for words. I don't want to run away from it. That's what it is, but that's a very hard message if you belong to one of the people who waits for satisfaction, for means or for repairing your damage, for example in Groningen. I have been there many times as a spokesperson to my people at home and it frustrated me just as much at some point: how can we not fix this faster? When you dive in, you get it. But what do you explain to these people? This is absolutely a responsibility that I think we should bear together again, and I will certainly take it from my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u92	I understand the struggle. On the other hand, as a Member of Parliament, the Minister has been there. But what I'm missing in the reflection is the realization that sometimes the State itself is a perpetrator. The State itself makes the choice of legislation based on certain assumptions about the behaviour of the citizen which may create these kinds of affairs. The Chamber has just published a report on this subject under the direction of Mr Ganzevoort. We'll talk about that later. But there's that element in it. Does the Minister have that in view? I think that sometimes the State itself is also dangerously involved in the architecture of legislation and the way we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u93	So I think that is one of the most important lessons to be drawn from the examples of recent years. There are undoubtedly more to mention. In those examples it is very clear what you meant, but unintentionally people were sucked in who had nothing to do with it. And these people are unintentionally victims of the state's rule of law. That also made the state an unintended perpetrator. There's no way around that. That is why I think it is so important that we look very closely and evaluate: what happened here? Normally you can't see that, but this way you can figure out how it could have evolved. And then you can think of legislation as a horizoning, guaranteeing and other elements; there is much more to think of and that is also looked at very seriously. This allows you to ensure that you then continue within the new safeguards. Legal protection is, of course, also a very important part of this. That's my colleague Weerwind's wallet. I am sure he will say a few things about that. But I also put so many words to this because I want to stress that this can only happen if it affects all of us and if we all, from our own responsibility, keep watching how this works. What works here? So my question is always and every day, regardless of whether it's about legislation, about policy or about a letter I take out: what does it look like in practice? I ask this question not only to the officials, but also to the practice. These are things you should never skip and never forget. Sometimes, unfortunately, it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u94	I have so far been sitting down because this debate was not a question and an answer to my question. Yet we have seen a lot of folders come by with questions and the answers to them. Those questions have been asked, so they also need to be answered. But I am trying to get a little bit of an incentive to consider it, so I would like to comment on that. 'Cause that's what I'm looking for. About GroenLinks' comment on...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u95	We can't hear you, Mr. Janssen. You must press the microphone button properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u96	I cannot press that button much harder, Mr President, because otherwise it will come out on the other side. But I'm gonna try again. GroenLinks talked about the crisis in the rule of law. The Minister then says: yes, but on all international lists... I believe all that, but there's a normal temperature and there's a temperature of feeling. My question is how can it be that we have reached the temperature of feeling that there is a crisis in the rule of law. I therefore hear the Minister take over the terminology of the supplement scandal when she talks about 'unintentional' and'sucked in' et cetera. We are going to talk about this in detail at another time, because I do not agree that it was unintentional, that it was accidentally sucked in and that it happened to them. It's done to them. That's what we need to look for. Then how does the Minister outline the temperature of feeling that we have reached and feel that there is a crisis in the rule of law? How did we get into that in the past few years? The Ombudsman referred to understandable and manageable legislation that it lacked and where we should go. Then I'm not just talking about the supplement scandal, but then I'm talking about a lot more things. We must move towards understandable and manageable legislation of an open government that is sometimes merciful in legislation, where it is necessary. We see that in many cases the government is the one who involves people in law and that it is the government that does not accept that a lower judge says: we leave it at that, it is good and I take the side of the citizen. We see too often that the government says: I have the opportunity to appeal and object, so I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u97	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u98	So what, according to the Minister, has emerged, somewhat more considerately, which has put us at this temperature of feeling that the rule of law is in crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u99	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u100	I am sometimes told in the House of Representatives that I give answers to questions and that people have to get used to them. So that's what's going on here in this room. If you ask a question, you'll get an answer, but I'm happy to consider it. I like that, too. I'm trying to show you the balance. I never run away from the mistakes that have been made. And the word "fault" is still too small if you look at what we're talking about. I'm well aware of that. I also think it is right that there should be a detailed debate on this at a separate time, because this is something that deserves to be discussed. So you don't have to run away from that. You have to see and acknowledge that, and you have to act accordingly. Understandable legislation has absolutely certain elements. Legislation must never lose sight of how it turns out, who hits it and how. We have to ask ourselves: is that what you intended in practice or not? Speaking of which, this sounds like open doors. I think we can see that in recent years we have forgotten these elements too many times, missed them too many times or missed them too often, and I think I have too often trusted in them that our institutions are so strong that they will be okay. That confidence has been damaged by a lot of people, and I understand that. The only way to fix that is to work hard. You can't do that with words. Looking at it, I can't think of anything that would make someone say, "Now I trust it again." You need to see this in practice. That's the only way. I also know that a lot of people feel protected and know by our rule of law. That balance is also important. That's why I said I won't say it's totally rotten. It's not even close. I am incredibly proud of our rule of law and I cherish, protect and defend it. I hope that I will also be part of the improvement, where it can be done better. Mr. Chairman. I think that's the most important thing. It's gonna take maintenance. An important lesson for people like me who thought we'd done well together is that you can never think: if you need us, you will be protected. I hope that's true, but you'll always have to have checks on that, so you'll know for sure. That's one of the biggest lessons for me. Now I speak for myself personally. I know that there has been a wide-ranging debate on this subject and will continue to take place. But that's how I'll always look at policy and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u101	I share that pride, because we can be proud of what we achieve with each other and of all the people who do their stinking best for it day in, day out, day in and night out. In my first term, I asked for attention to something that I actually want to go to. I have called mistrust a qualified form of lack of trust. How have we fallen from lack of trust in the government or the rule of law to distrust? Because I think that's a step further. I really think that's a step further. The question is, how do we get out of there? How do we get the road back? How do we row up against the current again, so that perhaps we can take the step of distrust again towards a lack of trust and confidence from there again? Because I think that this step of distrust all the way to confidence is too big a step. But how are we gonna get there? I don't care about mistakes. If you make mistakes, you have to learn from them. You have to acknowledge it and just say: I made a mistake, done, we're gonna fix it. That is the problem with the understandable and manageable legislation. It's so complex that we can't fix the mistakes anymore. I think there is a much bigger problem. Would the Minister like to reflect briefly on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u102	I think there are a few things. They're basic lessons. We can treat them considerately. I'll always ask, based on everything that's being investigated, one-on-one with us at JenV's premises, which I'm about, how do we ensure that these lessons are implemented, so that the same mistakes are not made first. That is a very important task and it is widely shared in the cabinet. In addition, there is talk here of distrust. Rightly so, I understand this very well. I know this lives on a lot of people. I don't need states and investigations for that. I know the other side is alive. A lot of research is being done on this too. I hear that in my surroundings, too. Both elements are true. If you look at the investigations of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which I think are called the Citizen Perspectives, then you can see that there is a lot of confidence in the institutions. There is an institution in which trust is not so great. That's politics. But trust in, for example, the police and the judiciary is very strong. That is why I am very vigilant in saying that there is a deep-seated, broad-based distrust of our rule of law. At the same time, I do not close my eyes to the intense lessons of recent times and working day and night to ensure that we implement them and do not make those mistakes. Then I'll be with Mrs. Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u103	Just building on what Mr Janssen said about distrust. In my first term, I raised the issue of a crisis of confidence, especially in politics, which threatens to move to the rule of law. I do not think that the Minister's answer to the question as to what caused it is entirely satisfactory. I believe that this lies largely in the political leadership in this country, in which there is very little confidence and which has often not set an example. I can name all kinds of affairs where things are just forgotten, the truth is being violated. If the tone from the top is that way, it will naturally seep through to all kinds of other layers. I think that is an important cause of mistrust. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u104	When it comes to politics, I am sure that we have a broad responsibility. This applies to all those who are active in politics. I must say that as a Member of Parliament I always thought when I was in debates: with a little luck my mother sometimes looks along and that's it. And, of course, the officials are also watching because they have to work on it, and colleagues. With the years it became clear to me that what is said there is really very well followed in the country. And not only what is said, especially how we deal with each other, how we treat each other and what we consider normal. Well, you can't say that we've gone higher in the last few years, I think. I think we should be much more aware of the role and role that we have here. So that's just another side of what we were just talking about. That's about content and policy and that you should never forget who you're doing it for. That's number one: who do you do this for and how does it then work out in practice? But on two, it says how we treat each other. I understand it's tempting to hang everything that doesn't go well in this country to one person, but we're really all there. Mrs. Bezaan had a question about demonstrations. I'm still at the folder "other good questions." She said: former Minister Grapperhaus spoke about quasi-demonstration law when it came to demonstrations against the corona policy. She asked how JenV's current minister looked at this statement. That ruling concerned the riots in Rotterdam in November 2021. Under the guise of demonstrating against corona measures, violence against the police and aid workers was used and destruction was carried out. My predecessor stated in his statement that this is not subject to the right of demonstration, but that it is deliberate rioting. I fully support that. I think I would have used a little more intense words myself. At the moment when you abuse the rights under our rule of law and then not only fully undermine them, but to attack others, we will all have to be very clear about them. I'll always do that from the point of view of my role. Our rights are not intended to be abused. There is another question from Mr Rombouts on how the extra money for security is being spent, but I have already explained it to the VVD. So we've already had it. I have a question from Mr Otten on anti-Semitic statements. I think he used the term 'radicalising the rule of law'. He said that the guarantees of a democratic rule of law are no longer as self-evident as in the past. In the current Netherlands, the guarantee also falls too often between shore and ship and you don't know who is actually in front of it. When it comes to anti-Semitism, examples have been cited, I myself do not have the impression that we, as the Dutch government, are closing our eyes to discriminatory or other unconstitutional activities or that we would point to each other. At least that's not how I stand here and how I feel about this. On the contrary, there is very good cooperation, not only between ministries, but also between enforcement agencies such as the police and the judiciary. However, the increasing volume of discriminatory action puts the authorities in a position to pursue an enforcement dilemma. For example, the number of registered incidents specifically for anti-Semitism increased by 21% to 627 between 2020 and 2021. This means that people who are Jewish, because they are Jewish, have been harassed and discriminated against, and have also registered those incidents. Can you see how many times it's occurred without registration? In addition to a comprehensive approach aimed at combating all forms of discrimination, the cabinet pursues specific anti-Semitism policies. It wasn't until a few years ago. At that time it was covered by the integrated approach. But if you look at how often anti-Semitism occurs in the figures of police and justice, you will see an over-representation if you turn it against the Jewish population in the Netherlands. I think it's really legitimate that you set out a separate approach to that. For the years 2019 to 2021, an amount of 1 million per year has been added to the budget of my ministry. This resulted in projects, from these funds, which really focus on tackling anti-Semitism. What I think is very important is that a National Coordinator for Anti-Semitism has been appointed. It must be formally covered by the Ministry, because otherwise it is difficult to set it up, but it has an explicit duty to do its thing independently and to point out to our own institutions or society: here you have to act, this is anti-Semitism, this is no good. Anti-Semitism has absolutely no place in our society. I will continue to make every effort to eradicate that poison from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u105	It is good to hear that the Minister is going to do everything in his power; we really do like to hear that. But my question actually went a little further. We had a session here last week with Professor Elzinga, the state law professor. He said that the Dutch government is very good at losing responsibilities. That was actually the background to my question, and it has not been properly answered. Who is ultimately responsible for combating radicalisation in our democratic rule of law? Is that this minister or is that the Minister of the Interior? Or is it nobody?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u106	No, that's me. I, period. And I'll add something to that. When it comes to preventing radicalisation or other forms of radicalisation in radicalisation, I think fairly quickly of forms of terrorism, but this is also about discriminatory behaviour and such behaviour, then SZW is leading. But of course it will come to us as well. The approach is mine, because that was the question. The National Coordinator for tackling anti-Semitism falls under JenV. If you're more specific about how you get data, intelligence, it's from BZK, the AIVD. Let me mention those other elements because not all of those things are covered by JenV. But the approach of radicalisation, of extreme right-wing, how we act on it, will lie primarily with me on most elements and on some elements, but that is mainly because the expertise is there. I agree with Mr Otten that this should never mean that everyone points at each other and nobody does anything. But that's not how I see it and that's not how I experience it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u107	The button on the microphone is indeed a bit difficult, I have to agree with Mr Janssen. I don't see it that way. What we do see in comparison with other countries is a certain vacuum. It's about a lot of different drives. The AIVD belongs to the Home Office. I also think the Minister has his own NCTV. I have indicated that in Germany you have the Bundesverfassungsschutz, which really has to monitor the democratic rule of law and has the means to do so. That was set by the Allies after the Second World War, to prevent what happened again in the 1930s. Does the Minister believe that the organisation in the democratic constitutional state of the Netherlands is in order to meet these challenges now? That is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u108	That's definitely my image. I do agree, if I may interpret Mr Otten's words in such a way that this is a very fundamental issue and that, when you do not act conclusively and adequately, you should be able to think about what is needed. But I didn't see it that way for a second. Mr Nicolaï made a very impressive speech in his first term. It was very interesting. I had to be careful to follow it properly. It all had angles that I don't know about. Thank you very much for that. He asked a number of very important questions about the performance of the Netherlands in Indonesia during the period 1945-1949. I can respond to that in the following way. I must say to him that there will be a more extensive response. We are currently working on a substantive government response to the Indian investigation, which contains a lot of elements. I can't anticipate that. If Mr Nicolaï has any further questions after the statement of substance of the government, my advice is to put these questions in that debate. I can just imagine that he will have it, when I listened to his speech and I know how deep he has dived into it, if I may put it that way. That's really the place to make it come back. That cabinet response will be here as soon as possible. At the moment, as we speak, the necessary alignment is taking place. So I don't have an exact date yet, but people are working on it right now. There was a specific question about the disclosure of archive documents. He picks up the Secretary of State for Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u109	Of course, I am very curious about the cabinet response, but it is only about that report. My questions were also about other issues, such as our Prime Minister Colijn. I assume this will not be included in the cabinet response. I would therefore like to have an answer to that. The same applies to my question of how we now look at the people who refused and deserted and so on. They've been punished. Should we not say: they were well-seen on the right side of history and we should think again about whether there should be a restoration of honour or something else? Unless I am mistaken, I do not expect this to be addressed in the government's response to the report. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u110	I think Mr Nicolaï is right that I myself am not so involved in the declaration of government. It's being prepared now. JenV is of course involved, but we are not leading the way. I thought it right to direct Mr Nicolaï's first input, in which he named all these elements, to those who are going to have that debate. What is in the government's response is one thing, but the debate will undoubtedly be wider. It can then be weighed there. This debate is not the place for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u111	I welcome the wider debate. The same applies to today's debate. We were hoping it would be more about the rule of law in general. That is why I have taken up an issue that has to do with ethics and that sort of thing. We are now threatening to get into a question-and-answer again about all kinds of details. It's a policy debate. Other colleagues have also pointed out that we would like to hear more about the general view of ministers on how they view the rule of law. That is my first point. Two. However you turn or turn, I am happy when my questions are passed through to see to what extent they can still be part of the debate that is still to come. But I don't see the connection between my questions about Colijn and the research conducted by NIOD. It's still a stimulating question. I put it because I think that in a rule of law, for which the Minister is standing here, we should think about that kind of question. If the Minister does not answer that at the moment, I would like to ask her if she is prepared to reply in writing to such questions as I have asked. We will then have the opportunity, if necessary, to give our opinion as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u112	I was assuming that if questions are asked to me, at least I will have to answer them. In addition, I will at least look at the rule of law in my explanatory statement. That is indeed a very practical view. I am very keen to see what I think the rule of law should do, what the rule of law should protect and what my role is in it. That is also what I am trying to share in the interruptions and in the answers. But I'm not gonna forget this. In the next debate, we will see whether or not I am going to answer all the practical questions. But I understand what Mr Nicolaï is looking for. So I suggest we promise that it will be in a letter. There is a chance that it is not mine but a colleague's, but we are going to see in the cabinet who can best answer those questions. Mr Nicolaï is not looking for an answer. He then wants to talk about it: what does that mean, how do you guarantee it and what is that about? So I'm taking it as a promise, but I'm not gonna tell him that my name is underneath it. I'm gonna go see who that might be best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u113	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u114	At least I heard a commitment. Still, on that more general point. This is the Minister of Justice, and making laws is actually: making justice. I do not yet have the feeling that the Minister of Justice has made it clear to us what the Ministry is going to do to strengthen the rule of law. If legislation simply does not meet the quality requirements, what are we going to do about it? I would like to hear some answers to these general questions, without going into all sorts of small details. I hope that the Minister will be able to give us some direction in replying to the other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u115	My answers may be considered insufficient, but I will answer them. I think that laws should serve the people on the streets. I believe that our legislation should be flexible in relation to what is happening outside this building. I don't think people outside have to adapt to our laws. It's gotta be the other way around. If there is a development, for example, when we see that people of the same sex want to marry, then I think that you should adapt the legislation accordingly. You don't have to look at it the other way around. Too bad, because the law doesn't allow it. That's what I meant by adapting to developments in society. Then I think the laws should be there to protect the people we want to protect. That also means that you always have to look at the practice. That's what you have to guarantee in your law. You can do that in different ways. There are many frameworks for this in the evaluations of the past few years. I quote them because, of course, fundamental things have gone wrong. You can go back a lot longer. That is also superlegitim, but over the past few years a number of things have gone so badly wrong that I want to learn from that. I'm learning from that. I can see that in our entire organization. Minister Weerwind will go into this in greater detail for Legal Protection, but everyone in our entire organisation is aware of the lessons of it. We're actually constantly looking at how clear and how clear our laws are. We'll see if we have a good idea and can evaluate and monitor what's going on. We'll see how our laws work out. There's two sides to that, too. On the one hand, are you protecting people well? And on the other hand, is it the question whether we have rigged it up so that you take our institutions into police and justice so that they can do nothing in there, for example? I'm always willing to see where it can be done better and where it should be done better. I think we'll run into each other more often. I don't think it has anything to do with the fact that I don't have a legal background, but I'm just pragmatic in nature. I want what we are doing here outside this Chamber to have the effect that we want it to have. And if it isn't, I just want to be able to stand here in front of you, be able to say that honestly and adjust that. That is easy to say, but for that you need all the guarantees, frameworks and manuals. There are also evaluations and parliamentary surveys going on. There will also be a lot of lessons to be learned. You don't have to dive away from that. Then you have to implement it in full. So we have that conversation every week with our staff. We also check this weekly: wait a minute, because what is this for, who are you protecting and how do you make it work out like that? As far as I'm concerned, that's continuous. That's the common thread of the assignment we have. That is what I am trying to explain on the basis of very practical examples. Those who serve our rule of law and are under incredibly high pressure, to a growing extent, that is really massive and really new in our society.. are the core for me. That's why I'm giving these people extra attention in this conversation. They're the core, I think. Our rule of law is under pressure, not only from the examples that have just been cited and which we ourselves are part of and are partly responsible for, that is clear..... but also from others who aim for our rule of law. I'm trying to do everything I can to get back at them and protect our rule of law. On the basis of these elements and the questions that have been asked, I have tried to indicate how I stand in them. But I will always be pragmatic. I'd like what we're doing here to make a difference. Everything else is nice to philosophize about and we do it with a wine, but I want to make a difference for the people outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u116	What more can people want than that? They're very nice words, but I have a question. It kind of confuses me. When the Minister just mentioned a number of points of interest in the evaluation, it was very much about feasibility and so on. Apart from that, she said at some point that it's about the people we want to protect, as if that's not the essential part of the evaluation. That's where I lost track. My assessment is exactly that the essence of a lot of things go wrong. When it comes to Groningen, we say we have to protect people of course, but ultimately it's about gas and economy. When it comes to the premium affair, it is said that we must of course take care of people, but in the end all the emphasis was on the fight against fraud and so on. Is it not at the heart of the great problems experienced and of the great impairment of citizens' confidence that the government itself did not have confidence in the citizens and that the government itself did not put the protection of citizens first, but that it considered other interests, other motives, which were all legitimate in themselves, more important than that citizen? Does the Minister share this assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u117	No. No, absolutely not. I will try to answer the question without going into those examples, because then we will make people who are victims of that now part of the discussion. At least I don't want to, and I don't think either of us wants to. All these considerations have, of course, a certain responsibility. This week, for example, we have taken the step not to set coal plants as low as I said as Secretary of State. That was the job. The reason is that we want to make our country as independent as possible from Putin and that we do not want to put our people here in the Netherlands in the cold. It's never so black and white. It's not that black and white. I understand the economic importance of our own energy suppliers. There is. But it would be very naive to pretend it's just about economics. It's about your independence. It's about being able to run your industry. It's about being able to heat your homes and hospitals. That's one example. If I come up with legislation that I say we can deal with criminals, then I must be able to say, when you touch innocent people, that this was not the intention; stop; these are the lessons. But why do I want to deal with criminals? Because I wanted to protect innocent people in essence. It's not that black and white. The government doesn't say: economic importance comes first for people. No, it's always about things like independence, security and freedom. And in there, I think we've put too much faith in how we rigged it up and thought we'd be okay. So it's not. That's a big lesson, but it's a very clear lesson.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u118	Mr Van Dijk mentioned earlier an example of potentially unintended but not unforeseen effects. In fact, the Minister said: yes, sometimes the good must suffer from the evil. She didn't say it with those words, but it kind of came down to that. Mr Janssen mentioned the temperature of feeling. My question is, however, also with regard to the examples which the Minister is now referring to, whether there are all kinds of things to be mentioned in the weighing of interests, great things, geopolitics, and I know what all this is about, where the citizen feels that this is his house that is under pressure, that is, his situation which causes him problems with increases and such things, which the government ultimately sees as a quantum négligeable, less important than the great interests that the government has. So my question is whether the Minister's fine words about the care that people who need to be at the forefront are correct. No, it's not the lead, because it's weighed against a lot of other things. My question was whether that is not the essence and then she says "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u119	I say no, but I do agree with what the input started with. That part where there are indeed people in our country, and I know that there aren't a few who say "it's all right, but you're not there for me," that part touches me. That's the job, and that's what I do every day. Because I'm practical in nature and I want to be there for those people, it's my translation to see how our laws work out and what it takes. I would rather do that than argue about it for a very long time, because I see what is going on and I want to act on it. I do not want to go along with it, I do not want to say that this conversation is going on, but that could be the case in public opinion as if we were putting people against each other and as if the policy were not aimed at protecting people. The intention of most people as I know them here and in the Lower House, and of my colleagues in the country and in politics, is to use you to make this country a little better, a little safer and a little more freer for everyone. That's why we're doing this. At least that seems to me, because there are easier jobs to choose to become popular than what we are doing here. That's why I'm looking for balance. I don't look away from people who say, "I hear what you're saying, but this is not how I experience the rule of law." That's the assignment. The rule of law should provide this protection and the rule of law has failed to do so in places. I fear that we may fail to do so a few more times, but I hope that with the lessons we have learned now, we will make that chance as little as possible and that we will never make the same mistakes again. We'll do everything we can for that. You do that by making sure you implement all those lessons into your M.O. One of the most important lessons for me is that we always have to keep an eye on how it works out out there, no matter how beautiful it is what we've come up with here and what's on paper here. It's not always that easy, but that's the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u120	Finally, Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u121	Those intentions are indeed very nice, for a glass of wine I have just learned. So we'll talk about that one more time. The question is, how does it work out? In this respect, this is perhaps the essential question for this Minister. If we hear from all kinds of implementation decisions and implementation processes that it is not actually working and that it is not going to work, why is the government so often focusing on the existing processes and leaving out the advice on implementation? And why does Parliament so often agree? But that is what we have to ask ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u122	That's a good question. I have spent the past six months wondering how we can have this conversation on the one hand, and on the other hand I understand why about every week, but still, every week from society, and sometimes from the Chamber: get on with that law of vice. Why does it have to wait until 2024? And then I'll explain that the law will be ready in no time. We're working on it, and we're finalizing the law, but I need the implementation agencies to implement the law. They need to adapt their working methods so that it really makes a difference to the victims that we want to protect better. The assignment I'm getting is "I hear what you're saying, but it's got to be sooner." That's where the tension is. I understand. I can also see the footage. I also see the need and I know what the vice law could mean for the victims. So I'm the last one to say, why are you looking for gear? At the same time, we must give each other time for implementation. Police, Justice, Victim Support, everyone needs time, not spacious, but time to implement it, so that you didn't just arrange something on paper, because that's exactly what you're asking me. Arrange something on paper and then look proud of "I've only taken care of that for a while," nobody outside this Chamber will benefit. I want victims to be made the difference. And in order to make that difference, the authorities that are going to make that difference need to be able to implement it. While we have those lessons and are implementing them, we seamlessly engage in new discussions and move the feasibility aside. Then it's up to me to say: I get it, but I'm not gonna speed it up, because I'm gonna have to skip that whole implementation period of a few months or maybe a little bit longer. When I say, "You're right, we're not gonna do that," I do have a great article, but I didn't make any difference to a victim. That's the dilemma we're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u123	My dilemma is that I want to go to the Minister for Legal Protection, but only after I have given Mr Backer the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u124	Thank you. But I think I was at the last folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u125	Yeah, I've been there a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u126	I am very pleased that you are practical. I also have a very practical question. Legislation is, to a large extent, a craftsmanship. We often talk about the quality of legislation here. In my first term, I raised the question: do you have the feeling that the JenV Ministry is sufficiently well-equipped, has a position to fully monitor this quality of legislation, including in all other departments? In the answers you give, there is almost no domain where you should not consult with another ministry. That's fine. I also understand, because that is how the Netherlands is organized. But that makes this question all the more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u127	You say it very nicely: craftsmanship. That's how I see it. We have the best lawyers, probably in the world, but at least in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u128	Except for the one from the First Chamber, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u129	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u130	A very justified addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u131	We also have a few very good ones, which do that work very well. It's a very fair question. The Minister for Legal Protection will address the question of what these lessons and these assignments mean. I hear him say to his colleagues about every week in different places: we need to be well on board and we need to be able to do the right tests. I think we turn our people in once in a while: yes, we're all gonna do that, but it's gonna be a little bit later than you're all gonna want. After all, we all want it tomorrow. In terms of quality and capacity, we certainly have the best in the house and they understand very well that legislation is craft work and that you have to investigate and formulate it properly. It's about how it works out for the people out there. As far as I am concerned, that is part of the craft work, which is written down. It's been noted. How's it working out? More and more of our ministry is being asked. It's okay. It's supposed to be. I have a lot of respect for the people who work all these extra hours. You are right: it is very wide. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u132	Minister, are you at the end of your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u133	Almost. I apologize to those who do not want practical answers. I still have Mr Otten with a very practical question about a law firm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u134	Answer the question before I give the floor to Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u135	Pels Rijcken. As I recall, Mr Otten said: how long will we be held hostage? That's not how I experience it. We've had the conversation before, so I'm gonna do it a little bit more succinctly. I'm sure we'll talk about it a few more times. We are not being held hostage by the state attorney's office, not even because of the amount of business. That's what Mr Otten referred to: it's so many things, so you can't go anywhere; is that how you want it? No, it is very important that the future of legal services to the State is carefully considered, so that we know how to organise the best continuously available and high-quality legal assistance at acceptable cost. Mr Otten knows that I have set up a committee because I want to do this carefully and to know what we are getting at and how you are doing it best. I know that Mr Otten does not think that committee is necessary. We set it anyway. It has been commissioned to map out the possibility for the State to organise the services in a general sense. I asked the committee to produce its report by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u136	Are you at the end of your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u137	I have a few more questions from the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u138	Then I suggest you finish it first, and we'll see what kind of interruptions there are. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u139	The SGP said that not everyone is always allowed to express their beliefs or opinions and that views on the basis of the Bible cannot always be expressed freely. The question was whether the Minister wanted to stand for the fundamental right of freedom of religion and freedom of expression, including in a European context. Like all other fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution and in human rights treaties, freedom of religion and freedom of expression naturally belong to all. As a minister, I stand for the important values that guarantee these fundamental rights. These fundamental rights are not absolute. They can collide. The perception and exercise of these rights and freedoms may be subject to limits, especially if the rights and freedoms of others are at stake. Freedom of religion or expression must never be a licence to harm or discriminate against others, for example. I would like to mention, for example, the explicit rejection of homosexuality, a marriage between two persons of equal sex, in, for example, the declaration of admission of a school. This does not fall within the scope of freedom of religion and of expression. Then I had another question from the SGP about abortion legislation. Is it legitimate, in the government's view, to criticise, for example, abortion legislation in principle, or are achievements in this area now seen as part of the rule of law? Is it not wise to fight for the maintenance of the rule of law? Says the SGP. I think it is extremely important to fight for strengthening the rule of law. Part of that rule of law is room for debate. In our country, there is room for wide-ranging differences of opinion, debate and criticism on all kinds of issues, including abortion. This is a great achievement of our society, an achievement protected by our laws and rules and by the institutions in charge of enforcing and implementing it. That's what I'm committed to. I do feel the need to add a personal note to it. Personally, I find it really remarkable that in 2022 the right of women to own their own bodies is still being called into question. But that's allowed under the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u140	I fully agree with the latter. That is why I voted in favour this afternoon. The minister said she could imagine a lot of jobs in which she would become much more popular. I was very curious what jobs she meant, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u141	I felt like we were at the bottom of that ladder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u142	Maybe there was a good tip, then I'll keep my recommendation. The Minister says: I am a practical man. That is what we think of the Minister, and we ourselves are very practical. So that appeals to us greatly. I would like to say the following: I have already said it once in my chambers. When we had the previous debate with the Minister here, this terrible hostage situation was taking place in Amsterdam. The Minister was finishing the debate very coolly and in the meantime she was managing that crisis. We were really awesome about that. I'd like to have said that publicly. The Minister is so practical. We're talking about trust gone. Of course, a lot of things have happened at the state attorney's office. We do not need to review all this again, because we have already had an oral discussion on this. Then I am so sorry that the Minister is referring again to the search for responsibilities. We're gonna re-appointing committees. Why don't we just basically restore confidence by saying that we're drawing a line here and we're quitting after 55 years? My whole life, the same agency's been the state's attorney. It is healthy to change it once in a while. That's what we do to rulers. Why is it that once again such a committee and not an effective, practical, confidence-recovering approach? That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u143	The question is clear. And quick answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u144	I find it annoying to say to him, after Mr Otten's kind words, that we are not getting along. We have had this conversation many times and I know what Mr Otten thinks. However, I do not think it would be wise for the State to take urgent irreversible steps without the opinion of the committee. I'm afraid we're not gonna get out of this together until the end of the year if the advice is there. Then we can at least debate the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u145	Thank you. Given the time I give the three interrupts an opportunity for one short question. Then I'm gonna take a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u146	I have one practical and short question. It is also in line with what Mr Otten ended up with. The minister's about to set up a committee again. I heard the Minister say: a committee that is going to see what kind of profile... etcetera etcetera. But the first question before and which is also very practical to answer is the following. If you read in the NRC: there are screaming partners and employees crying; a partner talks about gay colleagues as "fags"; he imitates Chinese and describes them as "sucking eyes"...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u147	Mr. Nicolaï, this has no added value. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u148	...he calls black...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u149	Mr. Nicolaï, your microphone is off. I've taken the floor from you. My question to you is: what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u150	My question is: if she reads that, what is the Minister's response? If you're of good decency, shouldn't you say right away that we're not going to go through with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u151	We have had this debate in detail in this Chamber. I didn't suddenly set up a committee. I have explicitly announced this and carefully prepared it. The committee has now been set up, so it's on. It is very important that the committee advises us on how to deal with this as a State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u152	Above all, I have a practical question. In my speech, I asked three main questions. What has been developing since the child care allowance affair crisis? Is it true that the rule of law does not protect everyone equally? And what about the truth in the rule of law? I have occasionally received a fragment of an answer to a sub-question, but I do not know what the distribution between ministers is like. So I have no idea if the answers to the questions are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u153	Then I suggest we wait and see. I'll give you a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u154	Yes, I did, but I did not put my first speech specifically into the main questions and then I did not get an answer to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u155	Perhaps the Minister could clarify this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u156	This is coming over to Minister Weerwind's office. Is everyone going to start with a practical question? I'd like to philosophize and stand here for hours, but I think I have to get to work too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u157	Mr Talsma will ask the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u158	I have a practical question. I would like to use a different set of concepts, which I am sure the Minister will address. It has already been used once before: understandable and manageable. By the way, that's a couple of notions. I'm not going to say too much about that. It is also about the art of lawmaking. I'm gonna go with that. And then it gets very practical. In my first term, I told the Minister that she is aware of a lot of signals that she, but also we are getting from the Supreme Court, the Council of State, the Ombudsman, the Council of Justice, the Public Prosecutor and the lawyer about what Mr Witteveen was always very provocative of: what lessons can you learn if things don't go well? Can you fix that legislation, can you change it? At that time I asked the Minister if she was willing to say that it seemed typical of this minister: a beautiful, practical move that she could have made...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u159	Yeah, and what was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u160	Would you like to combine these signals annually and provide a substantive response and submit them to the First and Second Chambers for discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u161	You haven't gotten an answer to that yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u162	No. And I'd love to. "Yes" is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u163	The Minister for Legal Protection is coming up with an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u164	Thank you, Minister. Then I'm gonna suspend for a little sanitary break until 4:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u165	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u166	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Senators, I respectfully look back at the debate and your first term of 31 May. I look back on that with respect, because when you talk about the state of the rule of law, you talk about a fundamental discussion. A fundamental discussion about the triad: how do they relate to each other and where are we in this country right now? And at the same time, and those questions were extremely good: where were we two years ago, what steps have we taken, where are we now and what can you expect for the future? Also the question of whether legal protection is equal for all Dutch people, precisely that legal protection towards each other, for the Dutch among themselves but also for an individual in the direction of a government body. What's this affair? Is it reinforced? Is it weakened? How do we deal with that? Also the question about the truth in times of progressive digitalization. Digitisation is going on, it's impossible to think away. Are we fit for the future? Are we ready to deal with such issues? Also the call for self-reflection, a justified call. A call for self-reflection in the rule of law, in the States-General and in the executive, in all three trias as there are. I am well aware of your comments on "beware of the rule of law." Also your exercise in which you looked: what is the Dutch' trust now in the rule of law? Also the stairs I just heard: from a lack of trust to building trust after a stage of distrust and then towards trust. How do you create that, how do you realize that? How do you embrace that road? How do you make sure that you monitor it and let it be transparent, so that the Dutchman, the boards but also the self-reflective state powers follow it? Mr. Chairman. Just that 31st May, when I listened to the senators, gave me the impression and the feeling that I had to go into the questions that were asked today. But at the same time, fundamental, substantive questions were asked about the state of the rule of law. Something I had intended to do was to have the conversation in the summer recess with several state lawyers, a Hirsch Ballin, a Tjeenk Willink and others, to have that fundamental, substantive discussion, to touch and taste that deeper layer. You can expect me not only to focus on scientists, but also to speak with judges, to speak with bailiffs, to speak with lawyers, to speak with staff from penitentiary institutions to feel: what happens on the floor now? It's en-and-and. Mr. Chairman. I'm definitely gonna do that exercise. But then I'm gonna get a lot of information for "Can I call it that?" A more philosophical and fundamental layer that can indeed influence as a roadmap on the way to the future, which I would love to share with you. So in addition to the answer I will give today in your direction, I will try to touch all the elements, both from dogma's, both from theory, but also with a wink at practice, from pragmatism. In addition to the answer I give you today, I would like to have a dialogue with you in the third or fourth quarter, realizing that you are having this conversation once every two years, but also realizing that there is a tension at the moment, that there is indeed a lack of trust among many Dutch people in our rule of law. I'm not gonna shove that under chairs or couches. That leads me to do that exercise this summer, but I also want to share my findings with you and have a conversation with you. You can expect that from me. I hope you can and will accept my invitation to do so somewhere in the third or fourth quarter, and I look forward to having a good discourse with you. Mr. Chairman, I had to get this off my chest. I see some agreeable faces, so I will make a proposal in your direction, addressed to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Ernst Hirsch Ballin argues in his book "Wake citizenship: regaining trust in democracy and the rule of law" for greater vigilance among both politicians and citizens. Watchful, so that we better recognize developments and changes in society and feelings of desolation in the other. Watchful, so we're receptive to signals that things can go wrong. I fully agree with this call. As a government, we can offer legal protection by preventing injustice and restoring injustice. A high degree of vigilance is indispensable for this. With this in mind, I would like to speak with your Chamber about our rule of law. What is the state of our democratic rule of law, where do we want to go and, above all, how do we get there? Our country, the Netherlands, has always had high eyes as a rule of law. There was always room for improvement, but if other countries undermined their rule of law, we could say something about it with authority. The supplemental affair, with the drop-out places at its lowest, has changed this. Suddenly, it was the Dutch government that lost sight of individuals and specific circumstances. In my previous office I was allowed to visit the province of Groningen from a cultural platform in which I sat, the affected area as a result of the gas extraction. I talked to drivers, I talked to former drivers, and I talked to residents. That has made an unprecedented impression on me as Randstading, who was not aware of the impact and suffering that was taking place there. As a government you have to take responsibility for that and give a good answer, by looking at the individual people involved, by listening to his or her story, listening to it, and also by asking you: what did we do, how did we do it, why did we do it and can we do it differently? I have learned lessons from that practice, but that was from the office of mayor, as a local director. I have a different responsibility now, but that experience I take with me in my suitcases to fill this office. Mr. Chairman. In a strong rule of law, the law protects people from the powerful government apparatus as well, but that protection has not been given to the victims of the surcharge affair, and that is why we, as a government, have failed. It is therefore not surprising that more and more people have less and less confidence in the government. That's something we have to charge ourselves with. Does this mean that I no longer have faith in our rule of law, is a question I am asking myself. Not at all. I am optimistic, but I do realize that I have to roll up my sleeves and use my head, my mind and my heart. In the words of Henk Naves, the President of the Judicial Council, our rule of law is a mature rule of law, a rule of law that allows us to discuss a low point such as the surcharge affair and to seek solutions with each other. Mrs Karimi rightly asked the question: where do we really want to go? Mrs Karimi rightly believes that the defence of our rule of law is more than worthwhile and that the rule of law must be worthy of citizens' trust. Real structural solutions can only be found if there is sufficient trust, trust in each other, citizens and government, and trust that the rule of law is there for everyone, for children, for adults, for victims, for perpetrators, for small shops on the corner, but also for multinationals. That's what we're supposed to want to go to together. You have to want to earn that trust, we as cabinet, we as government, but also wider: you and I as politicians, as political leaders. That is why the subject we are discussing today is of great importance. I believe that the only way to achieve this is to give confidence. Let me give you a practical example. As you know, the file on the removals is in my wallet. I'm talking to the young adults who are involved in this. I'm talking to the parents who are involved in this. I am also talking to the professionals who have given the advice to the children's court to move on to retirement placement, in the past, but also now. I'm talking to parents who haven't been in touch with their homely children for three years. Those stories are coming in. I'm trying to get them out of the process. I'm jigsawing and trying to see: how does something like that go? What does this mean? Victims. Government. The decisions. All professionals have done their job with their minds and with their hearts, with honor and conscience. And at the same time, there is unprecedented suffering. I spoke to the trial counselors today. To regain that trust, I put them next to the parents that matter. They must independently guide the process of parents whose children were placed out of their homes, recently, a long time ago, and who also have to do with the child care allowance affair. I asked these professionals, these trial counselors, why don't you take me with you? What do these parents want? Do they want their kids back right away? Do they want to build security of existence first and then their children back? And what do the young adults and the children themselves want? There is no clear answer to that question. But by going back to that implementation and putting that implementation alongside policy, I try to encompass, surround reality, and thereby give a good answer. This also means that I do not only have to deliver individual customization, because I would hide the fact that there are looming errors in the youth protection system. I'm gonna have to look at that, too. It's en-and. I have to look at the system, and look at the individual customization, and at the space I have given to the professional who does the work on the work floor. I have to listen to that too, and I have to get back the information. This dialogue, this continuous dialogue, I am now conducting. Those are the starting points for achieving that restoration of trust. That also means that I dare to trust those professionals. But it means that I also give confidence to the inhabitants of this country. I give confidence to the execution, to each other. That is what our policies, our policies and the regulations that result from them must be aimed at. That takes guts. After all, we must dare to let go. We shouldn't want to close everything down anymore. I can't. It is precisely the people who give our rule of law a face every day, from the judge to the police officer, from the youth protector to the bailiff, that should be allowed to act within the framework of the law, on the basis of their professionalism. Let go of dares within frameworks, I believe, is a sign of trust. Yesterday I spoke to the presidents of the courts in the Netherlands. They made me the same request. In their consultation, they took me away. Where are we now? Where are we from? I'm also looking for that dialogue, not to get away from reality. For me it's important: don't sit in an ivory tower, but stand close to the people all the time. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, I also see good initiatives. Let me mention it in the case-law Council. The board has listed cases in which judges feel a growing discomfort, for example because the law leaves no room for the judge to act on the basis of circumstances of the case. And here too, there is a lack of courage to let go, and there is also a lack of mutual trust. I do not ignore the Council's message to the courts. Together with my colleagues in the cabinet, I am going to work to actually bring back that human dimension where legislation affects citizens disproportionately. As far as I am concerned, the Council has stressed the importance of better vigilance and of the need for more trust in each other. That gives courage. It gives courage that we learn from the past, that we "learn" and that we focus on the future. Mr. Chairman. I have built up my speech as follows. I want to give various answers, and I do so in five blocks: the reflection of state powers, the quality of legislation, justice, access to justice and other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u167	Thank you very much for this overview, Minister. I would like to announce that, in connection with a number of committee meetings, I am going to suspend at 5.30 p.m. in any case. That's a profit warning for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u168	I welcome the start of the response by the Minister for Legal Protection. The last point he made was in my own words about the question of a hardness clause, as requested by the Venice Commission. Is he going to come back to that specifically? That would at least be a point which I do not have to mention in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u169	Mr. Chairman, I'll come back to that. That is too important a subject not to mention. That's a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u170	Mr. Otten is still missing an answer to one of his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u171	Well, it was an extraordinary empathic introduction. I didn't realize the cubes started now. I raised a number of structural issues in my first term. I just heard the minister talking about weave errors. One of the looming errors I have raised is the role of the Court of Justice of the Council of State. I mentioned the constitutional review and a number of other matters. If the Minister comes back to that in one of his cubes or should we discuss it now, my question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u172	I can assure Mr Otten that I will return to both points. Well, I'm gonna start answering now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u173	Go ahead. Perhaps it is an idea to let the Minister talk for a while, because some questions may still be answered in such a block. Then we can look afterwards to see if that is not entirely the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u174	I'm gonna start with a reflection on the powers of the state. Judicial rulings in cases such as Urgenda or nitrogen were more likely to lead to critical questions as to whether the judge does not take up too much space and thus end up in the chair of the legislator or the politicians. On the other hand, after the child allowance affair, we found that the judge should have had more room for manoeuvre. I spoke about this in my introduction. This shows the need for dialogue between state powers on the relationship, communication and culture. The State Commission on the Rule of Law, which is in preparation, will examine this issue. We are also working on a constitutional review, as laid down in the coalition agreement. I'll come back to that later. In short, there is a lot of work to be done. Mr Rombouts has asked me to have a serious reflection on how all actors in the rule of law can better contribute to strengthening the rule of law. He talked about the First Chamber, the Second Chamber, the cabinet, the judges, the media and lawyers. Those aren't all state powers, but I'll mention them in this list. In my general introduction, I indicated that real structural solutions can only be found if there is sufficient confidence. This confidence can only be regained if the individual's interest actually weighs heavily. Who do we do it for? Why are we doing it? And finally: how do you notice it in society? I believe that this should be the starting point for the work of the state authorities, for the legislative and executive powers in the formulation of policies and regulations and for the judicial process in the judiciary. Our cabinet has started working on the recommendations of the report Unprecedented injustice and the report of the Venice Commission. This concerns, for example, the improvement of information and exchange between and between state powers. It is also about the accessibility and accountability of public authorities to citizens and about the quality of legislation. It is precisely the quality of the legislation that rests with my department and I, as Minister for Legal Protection, am responsible for it. In my further speech, I will also mention the accents I wish to place on this term of office. Back to the state's powers and the reflection. The case law has reflected on its own actions during the child allowance affair, has identified regulatory rigidities and has reported on the abdominal pain records. In addition, justice has made reducing human standards a priority. All these issues are part of the work of the Rule of Law Committee, which I will set up together with my colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations, and which is being prepared in consultation between all three state powers. This State Commission will advise the government on relevant improvements in the relationship between state powers, including the promotion of the rule of law culture from the perspective of strengthening the position of our citizens in our rule of law. Finally, we will continue with the constitutional review, as laid down in the coalition agreement. This also includes the recognition of the legal profession as an important counterpower in the rule of law. Their contribution will ensure that citizens are given legal protection against the powerful position of the government. In the debate on the child care allowance affair, I also made it very clear that in the case of removal, what has happened, there is no judicial judgment and support for a lawyer. And that is what I am putting in place: to give real legal protection when the parents need it. Then I also look at the poor: offer it to them, actually. In the implementation of the Van Nispen/Azarkan motion to implement scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Committee, the fees within the legal aid system have been brought more up to date. Periodic reviews of such fees are part of the renewal of legal aid. This also implies a new piece of legislation and regulation, and then I will immediately see what effect this has on the system and whether I should make adjustments. That's how I'm actually trying to stay with the time. I believe that reasonable fees contribute to strengthening the special role and position of the legal profession in our rule of law. I would like to leave the reflection in the First and Second Chamber to you. Something about the media, because after all, I mentioned them. The media also control the powers and should therefore be able to work independently of those powers in a rule of law. Only then can journalists freely and safely provide reliable information to citizens so that they can take informed decisions and take positions. Critical, independent and thorough journalism is an important pillar of our democratic society and of our rule of law. I know that my colleague Uslu is investing in investigative journalism and in strengthening local journalism. I am sure she will deal with this later. I followed the debate you just had with my colleague. And yes, I always wish from my practical experience that journalism also looks very reflectively at its own role, as you can expect from a driver. I may not be allowed to say this as a Minister for Legal Protection, but it is a view I have. Then there is the rule of law and dialogue in the Netherlands. I have been asked by Mr Van Dijk whether I see a risk that the primacy of politics will be undermined if the judge is increasingly deciding how to deal with issues such as Urgenda. He asked whether the legal possibilities in civil proceedings were not overexcited. Mr. Chairman. In a rule of law, it is inevitable that the paths of politics and the judge touch each other. Everyone, and certainly the executive, must abide by the law and the law and therefore also by international law. The task of the judge is to determine whether the executive authority has complied with those national and international rules. Such a judgment may be politically bad, but that does not mean that the judge is sitting on the legislator's seat, in my opinion. In our democratic rule of law, this is a healthy situation and it must be a signal to the executive and legislative authorities to move forward. For example, in a democratic process, the legislator can decide to adapt legislation, and only in this way can state powers balance each other with critical counterweight. Only in this way will the rule of law remain vital: minorities protected, freedoms guaranteed and government controlled and controlled. A question has been asked about the abdominal pain files of the Court of Justice from D66. A response to the signals presented and the Council's dialogue on justice has also been called for. I'll take that in one go. The latter came from Mrs Karimi. From my responsibility for the state-wide quality of legislation, I look forward to every signal I receive, including from the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court. They have been clear in the annual reports. I see these signals as encouraging and supporting to improve the quality of legislation and legal certainty. The bottlenecks identified by the Justice Council are reflected in the ongoing inventory of harsh legislation and regulations, which I am working on with my colleague from BZK, in order to implement the Ploumen/Jetten motion. The Cabinet will send a letter to your Chamber before the summer recess to inform you about the progress of the execution of this motion; then you will also have it in time. It is essential that all the bottlenecks identified by the Council in the case-law are examined and resolved where possible, even if they do not fall within the scope of the Ploumen/Jetten motion. Insofar as concrete bottlenecks are not covered by that motion, the cabinet will come up with separate responses. In June 2021, my predecessor sent a letter on strengthening the quality of policy and legislation. It announced that the state of legislative quality would be issued once every two years. I would also like to comment on the signals from the Supreme Court and the Council's concerns for justice and the Council of State. I'll take it with me. I'll take it with me. For the first time, I'll come up with that in 2023. Then there is a question from Mr Recourt on clearly unfair statements and abdominal pain records. The speaker argued: if application of a law results in obvious injustice in a case, the judge should either speak or not uphold the decision or let the politics know that it has an unjust outcome. He went on in his speech, if I quote him correctly: only if the state powers are stable and balanced. He asked me if I shared that analysis. I hope I quote him correctly. I think it is important that the case law identifies bottlenecks and passes them on to the legislation; so far nothing new, because I have just said that. I just told you about the Council's signals for justice and the Supreme Court. As I said in reply to the questions put by GroenLinks and D66 on the abdominal pain files, I will start with these signals and, where possible, I will solve them. This means first of all: if the analysis of an abdominal pain dossier leads to the conclusion that legislation is appropriate, then the cabinet will enter it. Moreover, I have rightly heard Mr Recourt say that such an analysis can also lead to legislation being taken by the House of Representatives. In a role-playing of everyone's responsibility, i.e. of each of the state's powers, the result will be that the signal of the judiciary falls down in the act of the legislature. It is also possible that no majority will be found for such a legislative proposal, in other words, that the legislator, knowingly and willingly, will hold on to the law that the judge claims will cause abdominal pain. In our trias politicians, it continues to find a question of balance. None of the three powers have the last word. I think that is the essence of our rule of law. Then address signals of injustice. The government often resorts to administrative law to formally enforce its law. The question is whether within the framework of the trias politicians it is possible to address the signals of injustice. That's a question from Senator Janssen. The childcare allowance affair has shown that each of the state's powers must take account of its relationship to the rule of law. Moreover, this has also given rise to a broad sense of the need for representatives of state powers to be able to address each other at times. There is increasing support for the establishment and maintenance of a common Rule of Law agenda. This was also addressed in the draft mandate of the State Commission on the Rule of Law. This is without prejudice to the need for representatives of the state powers to be aware that they do not move into the seat of another state power. Therefore, when it comes to the independence of the judiciary, I do not think any hedgehog policy is unwise. I use your words. Mr. Chairman. The final important point for me is the question of a commitment that signals from practice are collected annually and that the government responds to them in substance by sending a letter to the Chambers. That was a question from Senator Talsma of the Christian Union. For the summer recess, the Second and First Chambers will be informed by letter about the state of play of the inventory of harsh laws and regulations, in order to implement the Ploumen/Jetten motion, and how it is handled and how it is handled. You hear me say "before the summer recess." I know this is two and a half weeks away from now. I'm talking to myself in a gallows with everything I want to do for the summer recess, but I'm assured this will work. I prefer to say 'around the summer recess', because that is more politically justified, but I just said 'before'. The cabinet wants to prevent improvements from taking advantage of each other and to wipe out all signals in one heap. The subjects and causes of signals are very different in practice. If signals of imperfections are not purely executive or operational in nature, it will be considered whether they can be traced back to a bottleneck in policies and laws and regulations. Its follow-up will then be involved in the context of the specific policy theme. Information to Parliament will then take place in the context of the specific policy theme. I choose the ongoing dialogue on this issue. The service organizations are going to work with a so-called state of implementation. This provides an insight into identified bottlenecks and measures. Both chambers will be informed by letter on the basis of an overarching document called "State of implementation." I can't tell you where that is in time, but I think you should expect it in the third or fourth quarters. I repeat: the purpose of that state of implementation is to provide insight into how it is and how it is handled with signals from practice. In this context, I would also like to mention the state of legislative quality announced by my predecessor last year. I spend it once every two years. For that state, I will also use all the signals given by judicial colleges on the problems they have identified in legislation. That's what I'm trying to round up the process. The Venice Commission came along as well. Does the government agree with the Venice Commission that laws should always contain a hardness clause? That was a question from Mrs Karimi. The Venice Commission advocates considering the inclusion of hardness clauses where appropriate to the specific objectives and design of the policy in question. A hardness clause is one way of achieving this. It's not the only thing imaginable. You can also think of more nuanced standards, to be able to do justice to the variety of cases covered by a particular rule. It depends on the context which means is most appropriate to achieve the goal. In the context of the ongoing inventory of harsh regulations implementing the aforementioned motion, the question of which means is the most appropriate for which situation. The Van Brenk motion is also involved, in which the wish for the standard inclusion of a hardness clause is laid down. Around the summer you can expect a progress letter from me informing you about the state of play of this journey. Then clean up the justice system. Senator Janssen asked a question about that. I understand the call for measures to be taken only which work and are appropriate to the social issue that they seek to resolve. I agree with your point of view. You can't disagree with that. It would be quite right for your Chamber to look very critically at this by law. I'm not saying you don't; you already do. I got an exhortation look, Mr. Chairman, from one of the senators. But it's a call, a request in that direction. I have to take responsibility for this, too. So you can also expect us to do the same ourselves. This is an important objective of the Public Service Work Agenda, as well as for the Public Trades Programme and the review and better use of the Integrated Weighting Framework. Our ambitions in this area are not for nothing, I believe even on page 1 of the coalition agreement. That is what we are working on in the departments. We're not doing that alone. You do this together with fellow governments and with implementation organisations. Then I will go into the dust comb operation to clean up old legislation. Here's what I'm saying. When making new laws or legislative changes, a good embedding in the existing legislative landscape is always an important quality measure. But a dust comb operation to review all legislation over the past decade is very labour-intensive and very time-consuming. So I'm already asking, in front of me, what's in it for? I think we should focus our efforts on the quality of new policies. At the same time, I am also looking for bottlenecks identified in practice in the implementation of existing legislation and regulations. That's what I want to do. That's how I hope to move in your direction. I am not looking back at the past ten years; I am looking at the chunks of today and what to do now. I hear and get identified bottlenecks. Are we gonna do it one time? This is a way of thinking and doing things, so you can't do this once. You have to do this cyclically. Call it a feedback loop. I think it needs to be embedded even more strongly in the way the Empire works. I do have the introduction test for that. Many service organisations will make a state of implementation in the future, where such signals will also be given a place. You can hear me thinking very instrumentally, but we are talking about a policy and a policy-making process. That is why I am doing so, I say in response to your question. My expectation is that this approach will benefit a higher objective: the quality of policy-making and the quality of policies and laws and regulations. They should be better tailored to the social challenges we face together. That implies asking questions at the front: what do I do, for whom do I do it, why do I do it and with what effect do I do it? Then we have to go back and say, "Does it work?" Then we should not say after a short period of time that it does not work and so we do not do it anymore. No, we really need to build in good evaluation periods. But when you get clear social signals that something else can or should work counter-productively or has a perverse incentive, you have to keep it under review. That's how I look at the whole policy and legislative cycle. I'd like to hear your reflection on that. A piece of customisation in legislation and justice, including in court hearings. As a result of the supplementing affair, the cabinet is taking a large number of actions to achieve more tailor-made legislation, so that management and judge can take more account of individual cases. What are we looking at? Towards greater discretion in sectoral legislation, to so-called candle provisions and to hardness clauses, where they are useful and necessary. Several adjustments to the General Administrative Law Act are also being considered. Around the summer recess your Chamber and the House of Representatives will receive a letter from the Minister of BZK and me, in which we will discuss this in more detail. As I said, the case law has looked critically at itself because of the premium affair. They've learned lessons from that. I have already mentioned the human dimension as one of the priorities on several occasions. Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about customization and randomness, if I am not mistaken by Mr Recourt of the PvdA. He gave the important warning that in the case of customization by legislator and judge, the pendulum should not pass to randomness. That is a justified point, I think. He asked me, are you aware of that danger? I can see the tension field. The law must, on the one hand, provide guidance for administration and justice but, on the other hand, give them sufficient space to reach proportionate decisions in the individual case. Then we come to Mr Witteveen, the former senator who has just been mentioned, and to the art of lawmaking. Customisation can only succeed in combination with regulation that facilitates it. In doing so, it is possible to make customization more than just symptom control or a correction mechanism. It goes hand in hand with better policies to make better use of the possibilities offered by the legislator. In practice, for example, I am now experiencing this in the field of youth protection. I am not talking about legislation and regulations, but about the whole system of youth protection. You also referred to me as an example. On the one hand, I want to be human in measure, but on the other hand, I also look at that system as a whole. I would like to ask how the actors in the system put the family, the children, at the heart of their working methods and how this is done throughout the chain. We also look at the effects that this will have in practice. You referred to it as looming errors, I say to Senator Otten, but that leads me to find that I have to keep that system under close review. That is a huge task. I can't do that in three years. I'm holding back expectations. But I'm gonna start it off. Then I went into that point. Then there's the progressive digitalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u175	May I ask if you're still in the block of reflection? Or are you unnoticed again in the next block? Otherwise, I must give my senators the opportunity to ask, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, a short supplementary question in the event of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u176	You're on to me. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm all in the flow and I'm jumping through the different topics. I was already in the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u177	You have now ended up in the block of quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u178	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u179	I've heard the word "quality" a few times. Then we are going to have some interruptions about what you have said so far. Then we finish the block of quality. Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u180	Thank you for answering the questions on the hardness clause. I understand that the Minister says that you may not always have to do it that way and that sometimes there may be other forms for it. At the same time, however, there is a risk that new laws that come along will still be a bit between ship and ship. My question would therefore be whether the Minister could agree that legislation should at least ask what mechanism would be appropriate to that law: is that a hardness clause or something else? If the Minister agrees that this question should at least be asked, can he agree with the idea that this should be included in the regulation designation? Then it's not just a nice thought, but we'll really find a way to really secure it in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u181	I was just thinking, how do we guarantee that? I can easily answer yes and you give the answer implicitly. So, twice, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u182	Thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u183	In the speech, the subject of media and journalism was briefly discussed. There was talk of "degened journalism" and "actual coverage." I also have to ask the Minister what is "degened journalism" and how the government is going to commit itself to such standards without interfering in what people want to publish under the heading "journalistics."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u184	Indeed, what is "degened"? I used the word, and that's his judgment. His judgment doesn't suit the minister. You see, I'm chasing myself. At the same time, I have a picture of journalism. You need to be able to move freely. You can also expect an article to mention all the elements. In the past I like to read... I won't mention the newspapers. There you read the preliminary arguments, the counter arguments and then the journalist's conclusion, which direction he went. Then you give a total picture. That's a form of journalism. It is not for me to give an answer to the word "defied." You have a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u185	Perhaps it is an open door, but I would like to hear it for a moment: does the Minister think that journalism which does not meet those criteria, which is perhaps one-sided or perhaps even incorrect or gossip, deserves the protection of our rule of law? We do not have to judge what we find to be'suffering', because that is not the way to work out with each other. Does the Minister agree that forms which do not fall under that heading simply deserve the normal protection of our rule of law and all the means at its disposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u186	Mrs. Nanninga doesn't mean facts-free journalism, does she? Is the question whether facts-free journalism also needs and deserves protection? Is that how you want me to interpret the question? I'm just looking for the explanation of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u187	What matters to me is that, in my view, there are no criteria to be set. Are there any criteria according to which the Minister intends to operate and on the basis of which he intends to grant legal protection to journalists? Or can we agree that we should respect and treat people who operate as journalists as such, regardless of whether we think that is proper journalism? In my speech, I was talking about banning those Russian channels. Of course that's all propaganda crap, but I think Dutch people understand and know that too. So my question is: does the Minister want to use a definition of journalism that deserves or does not deserve protection and do we have legal protection for journalism and journalistic productions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u188	Let me point out that I always see if there are frameworks and appointments. And there's a certain amount of room for manoeuvre. You ask me very sharply: do you still offer legal protection to journalism? Every Dutch citizen can count on legal protection at any time, including journalism, regardless of what he or she has said. Access to justice is open to all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u189	Two short points. The first concerns the players in the trias politicians, whom I said in the first term that they can also approach each other as hedgehogs. For the report, I would like to say once again that when I read back the preliminary report of the first deadline, it said 'ego's'. Fortunately, I was able to correct that, because I would not want to accuse other actors in the trias of egos. So it's really about hedgehogs, the little animals. The minister says "direction of the judiciary." I'm not in favour of criticizing every verdict, but the point I made was that when we see that the judiciary, or an administrative judge, decides very often in favour of the government, we have to look very closely at whether there's something there that might provoke the government to keep going to court to get it right, when maybe that's not always necessary. So, the symptom of very often being equal to one side, might be something we should be focused on. That was the intention of my comment, not the criticism of every individual case-law. Maybe the Minister wants to come back to it now or else in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u190	I'm in favour of good and healthy checks-and-balances. For example, when you see that the judiciary often decides in favour of the executive, it is best to keep that light, without sitting in the seat of the judiciary, if it is so striking. We need to stay critical of each other, not sit in each other's seats. That's what I was talking about. I had read hedgehogs correctly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u191	On this point, Mr President, a second point very briefly. I will not give the reflection to which the Minister invited me, just in the event of interruption, on the introduction test and that comb. I'll do that in second term. Since the introduction test is also looking back and you are now going to judge some of the laws of the past, I have been talking about ten years, my point is that you can also trip over laws that you see really do not work and I say: pick them up and take them with you. That was the obvious, the low-hanging fruit, I'd say. I'd like a reaction to that. I'll do the rest in second term. I am particularly concerned that when we look back, perhaps we can look back at the laws that are now bottlenecks, or have been identified by the case law as bottlenecks, and get something out of them when we look back at the introduction test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u192	I agree with the speaker. At the moment when you have low-hanging fruit and you look back, you see that this is something that causes nothing but misery, the opposite, I say: tackle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u193	We were just talking about human size and the introduction of hardness clauses and the like. My question to the Minister is: what are we doing about official culture? If you introduce a human measure, hardness clause, etc. and there is still something about "the citizen is my opponent with whom I have a struggle to win" in the official culture, then we do not have much use for these legislative changes. Mr Janssen spoke just now about what is going on when the judge keeps saying that the government is right. From my professionalism I say that I do not know whether this is due to the laws or to culture. If the Council of State now says 'yes, in the past we could have made other decisions with the same law', then it is in culture. The question "how do we deal with this citizen?" And "how does the civil servant deal with that citizen?" is a cultural question. I would like to know what the Minister thinks about this and how he intends to achieve a cultural change there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u194	Thank you for this question. When we talk about a process of change, I always think in a triangle. I look at structure, I look at culture, and I also look at forms of leadership, leadership. From that triangle, I reason. And from that triangle you have to turn the buttons if you really want to realize something. How does this culture happen? At the official level, the professionals on the floor have: twisted, we do human work here. Sometimes we've embedded them in so many policies and laws and regulations that they don't have that discretionary space I've been talking about to be able to act on. That is why, in my introduction, I made a speech about giving space, space. At the same time, there is culture: afraid to make a decision on which you may be dealt with by a hierarchical layer. And at the same time, you have to stay within the framework. That is my argument again, where I was talking about arbitrariness. You also want to ensure that there is a piece of equality of law, legal certainty when dealing with similar cases throughout the Netherlands. There are differences, great differences, in how municipalities deal with certain issues. I can see that, too. If you live in municipality X or in municipality Y, you can have quite different experiences with debt restructuring issues. That's the practice, too. You can't fix that. That's the local authority, the local responsibility. A change can only be achieved by having an eye for the whole. I know that this is a continuous topic at the official summit at dg-level and sg-level. We've got big, state-wide projects. You have just heard me mention the execution, the public service, where there is an eye for the real centralization of man, for the sight and service of man. That's about the Dutchman. That's what we do the work for. That's what I do my job for. It starts with the board, the management, and it sometimes works through in structures and in laws and regulations. So you have to look at that whole triangle. This is happening within the government, but with the experience I have as a former director of the VNG with the local government organisations, I can see that there is a strong focus on this too. By the way, the government cannot do this alone. We will have to work continuously with the field and discuss this and have an eye for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u195	The Minister responded to my question about the taking of legal action by interest groups under Article 305a of the Civil Code. These are often actions from very specific interests, often with major implications for the general interest, carried out by organisations whose representativeness is often extremely low. Do you recognize that sanding point? Would you like to reflect on that? Are we happy with that? It is not a question of whether that is the fault of the judge or of the legislator. Are we happy with this consequence, this outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u196	I'm being asked for his judgment. If the judge has spoken, I will take it up as a government servant and carry it out and be accountable. You do have a point. I hear you say: how representative is it? A question that goes through my head, too. But the fact is: they are standing there, they have used the roads that are available to all Dutch people, and the judge has ruled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u197	A clear answer, thank you very much. Then there's my follow-up question. The ideal organisations that can bring such legal proceedings can be excluded from all kinds of admissibility requirements. But should there not be an admissibility requirement in the area of representativeness? Shouldn't the Minister be exploring whether that would be desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u198	I'm gonna owe you a reflection. I want to think about this. I'm gonna give you an answer, and I'm gonna have to think about it. You are asking a very fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u199	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u200	From very basic to very practical then just for a moment. I want to make sure I understand the Minister correctly. The Minister referred my question about signals, you know: abdominal pain, headache and so on, to the Ploumen/Jetten motion. I took it because I didn't have it on the retina like that. It is mainly about legislation that is working hard and an inventory that the cabinet must do. My group means signals that we are given, but that the cabinet does not have to take stock of itself. My group is so keen that we should be able to discuss these periodically, structured and commented on by the cabinet as co-legislator with the cabinet. It does not necessarily have to be my solution, in the sense of the solution as proposed by me, but I would very much like to put forward those elements. So, to make sure that I understand correctly, my question to the Minister is: does his solution now provide for this? Because I don't quite see it in the extension of the Ploumen/Jetten motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u201	I may have mentioned the wrong motion at the rate I had, but I'm not going to look it up. Let me put this first: every signal from society must be taken seriously, especially when it comes from renowned institutions, whether it comes from the Council of State, from the Council of Justice, or from others. I want to know what these signals are; I want to learn from them and I want to be able to weigh them. Then I look at it: do I have to do something with it, or is this something incidental? That's how I look at it. Let me not put it too narrowly, just looking at the Ploumen/Jetten motion. I follow society and I work for society, so I take every critical remark of it seriously and weigh it together. But then it must have a certain mass and importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u202	Just to be sure, I would like to ask the Minister: what structure should that be in your view? Is that going to be some sort of warning letter every year, which we can also talk about, or do we have to get it out of a piece of legislation somewhere per portion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u203	No. I promised you I'd work transparently. That means I'm going to put it back in this Chamber to make it negotiable. So I like open communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u204	Maybe I'll join my predecessor; I don't know. I welcome the Minister's answers to the question of balance, so on the one hand there is tailor-made work and on the other hand it should not be arbitrariness. So I am glad that he says: you should also look at legislation. So don't choose a hardness clause everywhere, just see where that fits. My practical question is first of all: what instruments does the Minister use to keep a finger on the wrist? And two. How does the Minister intend to correct, to the left or to the right? How do you measure the center? Behind that, following the question of the SGP, I say: justice is not democracy. So if you're allying the judge with a question, you're mostly asking for the right to interpret. Then you don't have to represent a majority at all, but you have to have a certain interest in the subject. Is it true, for example, that the judge looks at the statutes of a foundation or an association or that there is a connection to the subject matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u205	I start with Mr Recourt's first question: how do you correct to the left or right and what instruments are you working on? First of all, you need to get the signal. And once you've got the signal, I think you should also weigh well: is this, for example, a perverse effect of rules like we've agreed on, are they counterproductive in society? Does this affect a large group of Dutch people? Then you can already expect us to weigh it and hold it against the light: we meant that law like this. You know the cybernetics model of Easton: input, output and outcome. Precisely because you set a political-administrative goal at the front, you're going to measure that outcome permanently. I try to do the same with my input tests and the evaluations. But in the meantime, you can also very clearly evaluate to see: where are we and what is happening? That is why you must also engage in this dialogue with actors involved in the chain. I'm gonna take the youth protection chain because I'm deep in those files. I have to talk to youth protectors, certified institutions, to pick up signals. I am also talking to the target group, parents and children, all those actors, and the judge. With all these actors, I have to measure: is that process going on, is the law working as we have imagined? Does it also have the social impact we were aiming for? Next, you must dare to enter into the discussion with the States General, the First and Second Chambers. I do so because of the various reports I give, with which I say: I note this. Then you have a part and I have a part. Then you may expect initiatives from me. Then we go to the discourse to see: how do we change this left and right? Is it within my mandate as a minister? Then you can expect me to make that decision, but I am also transparent and communicating about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u206	I thank the Minister. We're gonna watch the performance. I welcome the focus on implementation in practice. We need to see whether this fine-tuning is going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u207	I understand that Mr Recourt was not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u208	Mr. Chairman, may I have a little temper before Mr. Recourt thinks the rebellion is starting with me? I'll start with this line of thought. I must be supported by the sg's, by officials and by actors within certain chains. We'll pick it up. It's a line of thought. I'd like to land it, too. I would also like to be addressed by you, by the First Chamber and by the Second Chamber, to give substance to that. I can't do it alone. But I'll bet on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u209	One small point, in addition to the SGP colleague's question: as an interest organisation, you can only start a civil case when the statutes also indicate a relationship with that case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u210	I have just said to Mr Recourt that I want to reflect on this. I want to think this through. I hear from Mr Recourt a suggestion, if I may translate it in this way, which I am taking with me. I have just indicated that this is a matter of principle, so I would like to think about it carefully instead of answering it in front of the fist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u211	I've heard a lot about good intentions. Mr Nicolaï mentioned the aspect of culture, but the structure is also important. The structure is very essential for the restoration of trust. I have not yet heard the issue of the looming error of the Administrative Court of the Council of State. The word "weaving error" does not come from me, but from someone with a very high position within the judiciary. It has also been said by the former President of the Supreme Court: that section of administrative justice has to get out of there. It has also been said by the Council itself that the Administrative Court Division has been stuck in the administrative groove for too long. Well, if the album sticks, you keep hearing the same song. How does the Minister feel about that? Shouldn't it simply be structured once that the Administrative Court Department leaves the Council of State, or at least that an appeal to civil courts is opened, so that not the first and last station is the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u212	I see you with leaves. Is this a question that you will come back to later, for example in the area of justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u213	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u214	Then I suggest we hold the questions until the Minister has had a chance to answer them. I'm about to suspend until 7:00 p.m. before dinner break. For the record: after the suspension we start with the continuation of the block quality. At the end of the block, I would ask the Minister to state that the block has been completed so that any interruptions can take place. Before I suspend, I shall give Mrs Baay-Timmerman the floor at her request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u215	Let me make a point of order. Four motions have been tabled in the first term. Can the ministers reflect on this in their first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u216	Then what rulers are they talking about? You wouldn't happen to know that, would you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u217	It's four motions. In any case, it concerns the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u218	We'll give this question to the rulers. Maybe they can think about it during dinner break. The Minister of Justice and Security may, if she so wishes, have the opportunity to speak before the first term of office of the Government is closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u219	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to move on to the cup of quality. I wanted to start with Senator Recourt's questions about truth in times of progressive digitization. In his speech, Mr Recourt referred to the value of relevant facts, of the truth for the rule of law. I think this is an important point. I'm aware of that, but so is the government. I also think that we should be vigilant about the impact of the digital transformation of society on this issue, including the legal system. Digitisation is a reality. How does the legal system relate to this? In the European context, for example, when discussing the proposed regulation on the digitisation of the justice sector and access to justice, this is also a focus of attention. Let's look at the contents. The establishment of the relevant facts contributes to legal certainty. For example, you can think of the transfer of property, but also the prosecution and trial of suspects for criminal offences. Then we're talking about justice. Even then, facts play such an important role. I think it's legally relevant to know what those facts are. That is exactly what the cabinet is doing. We have asked the WODC, the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, to do research on deep fakes, for example. At the request of the House of Representatives, research has also been carried out into immersive technologies, which are truly permeated by... For example, you have augmented reality. Well, I don't think I should go into that. In all these investigations, the key question is whether we as a government are well equipped to deal with the emergence of these new technologies. I'd still like to zoom in on the criminal trial. There really needs to be permanent attention to validation of sources. I know that the Dutch Forensic Institute has recently expanded its knowledge in the field of artificial intelligence. This means, for example, that the authenticity of documents can be verified at all times. Then I zoom in on the legal professions involved in digitisation. I am thinking, for example, of the notary. Many legal services are changing under the influence of social, but also technological developments. IT plays a role in this. Specifically about the notaryate, I can inform you that a bill has been submitted to the House of Representatives to enable the digital creation of an e.g. We are also looking at how the notary's role in the physical world can also be made possible in the digital world in order to establish identity in legal traffic. This is precisely why we also gain experience of the changing role of the notary and how it will develop. I also expect that this digital transition will emerge in the investigation into the state of the notary I have promised to the House of Representatives. I expect this will start through the WODC this year. The one about digitization, Mr. Chairman. Let me see if any more quality questions have been asked; that is the case. Questions have been asked by the Christian Union about the introduction test. In this context, a question has also been asked by the SP about a risk-regulation reflex. The VVD also asked questions about the introduction test. I combine all the questions asked in the answer I have to give now. The SP rightly mentions the risk-regulation reflex and the introduction test together. Of course it is an important instrument. With the introduction test, we create a new feedback loop to improve learning ability in policy. In this way, we are working towards an ever better quality of legislation. This is just a first check. Shortly after the introduction of new regulations, we actively look for the first signs of how it works in practice. How does it work for the target group and for the public service providers? We're gonna look both ways. Earlier, I indicated my introduction that it is too soon for a comprehensive evaluation. You'd have to get more experience for that. Of course, if you encounter pressing bottlenecks, you have to look for appropriate solutions and space within the rules. If the regulation is to be adapted, we must do so, but in good cooperation between politics, policies and implementation. This is also the first step in the introduction test. As far as I am concerned, we should not look for it in instruments such as perseverance, but in administrative and political will and power to correct mistakes and unintended effects. Then there is the guarantee of legislative quality. Then I come to the people who have to do it. In my triangle people also play an important role: structure, culture but also management. Mr Backer asked the question and I therefore endorse the message that it is very important for the state-wide legislative quality that the legal function is well embedded in the ministries. In order to promote this, on 24 March 2021 the Prime Minister established the designation of the legal function of Rijk. These apply to all ministers and secretaries of state and to persons working among them. What's in those clues? The instructions state that the Director of Legislation and Legal Affairs has direct access to the directors and the Secretary-General of the Ministry. The indications shall also ensure that the Director of WJZ participates in relevant consultations with the political and administrative summit and receives the necessary information. In order to promote compliance with the instructions, the Director of the WJZ of the Ministry of JenV reports annually on behalf of the other Directors of WJZ to the Secretaries-General on the quality of the legal function of the State Service. This in terms of the human function to ensure the quality of legislation and regulations within the departments. Mr. Chairman. When I talk about quality, I also deal with the theme of the execution test and its ability to do so. GroenLinks has asked questions about this, but also the VVD. You referred to the Klem report between desk and policy, and you asked if there was sufficient cooperation with implementation, including in the light of receiving signals about doping power. As a cabinet, we recently received all the major implementation organisations and with them also explicitly opened the dialogue. That good dialogue must be about what is considered feasible and not feasible. Regulatory accountability is also provided by default in the explanatory memorandum, including in the case of negative opinions from implementing organisations. Should we raise the bar? Yeah, you have to learn, learn, learn and improve every time. We need to make sure that we work much more closely with implementation organisations and make good policy. We are going to strengthen this even further by involving implementation organisations at an early stage and looking with them at enforceable and manageable rules. I can mention the Work on Implementation programme, but you know that I am also working with the integrated balancing framework. I think that's important. The integrated balancing framework actually addresses seven key questions. What's the reason we're doing what we're doing? Who's involved? What are we talking about? What's the problem? What's the target? What justifies government intervention? What is the best instrument and what are the consequences? These are basically the key questions in the comprehensive policy and regulatory framework that is being used. Mr. Chairman. So much for the cup of quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u221	I see Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u222	On the point of the negative opinions that are sometimes given, in particular from implementing organisations, and the way in which... We must respond to this, for example in the explanatory memorandum and the like, or if the Council of State is very critical. Our feelings are: I am curious how the Minister sees that very often the answer from the government is: we see that differently; it is said that it is not possible, but we think that it is possible. The question is whether the Minister thinks that is enough. We do not think so, so I wonder how the Minister sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u223	I'm just thinking, looking through my eye hairs, did we write that down? My experience is five and a half months compared to yours, so I have to be a little modest; that is what I want to do. But I'm always looking for the argument. You can deposit a statement: we see it differently. But I will mention the arguments: we see it differently, because. I just indicated that I am responsible for a piece of quality of legislation and regulation. I also talked about the directors of WJZ. If we disagree with implementing organisations and do not accept their negative advice, reply, then we should always argue why not, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u224	I fully agree with that. I think that it will also help this Chamber in the weighting of proposals that eventually come along here if we get such a substantive justification of why it is then feasible when the organisation says that it cannot. So I think we're on the same page. I think that's gonna make the job better here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u225	I specifically take it as homework just to do it like this. Then the execution test and the do-it-yourself. Another question from GroenLinks and from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u226	Are you going to start with the problem of justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u227	Excuse me. I have to go to justice. I went back for a second. Justice. Strong independent justice is one of the foundations of our rule of law. Good justice contributes to a stable society and ensures legal certainty and justice. It is also up to us to support them in carrying out their work. I am thinking of removing delays, shortening lead times and further digitisation. As a cabinet, we've made extra money available for this. That is good for those who seek justice, but also for the workload of the judiciary. A question has been asked about the recruitment of the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The intention is to provide the judiciary and the public prosecutor with a structural additional budget to make the organisations future-proof. Then you should think in terms of capacity, manoeuvrability, quality of information provision, digitisation and innovation, but also of improving chain cooperation. This additional budget will be used, inter alia, to address staff shortages. We use this extra budget for that. I realise that there is a tight labour market, and so do the organisations. All the organizations I'm dealing with, whether it's the state's attorney's office, the justice system, the Justice Department, or even the youth protection chain, are struggling with this issue. That is the reality. East Netherlands has made it to the moment. About 1,500 cases were dropped there. I'm just gonna get a practical example. Before they made that decision known to the world, there was talk. I represented not only myself, but also the Minister of JenV. He had another duty to work, to be exact. Then we'll be spoken to, too. One of the things I said is that I don't feel good for the rule of law to dismiss 1,500 cases. I'll see what kind of business it is. They could be minor misdemeanors. It could be an insult. It may be small, but it's a misdemeanor. So I asked: where does it lie and how do you prevent it from structuralally, how do you prevent it from being sustainable? I can't get one hundred percent answers, and I can't get one hundred percent security either. I was also told: "We also have a crunch of human power, of judges. We are now filling out 25 places for judges in training, Rio places." Fine. That is towards the future, but I want sustainable solutions. My question towards the College of Attorneys General, which I spoke, and the President of the Court of Justice was: "Okay, can this occur elsewhere, in other courts? Take me with you." The answer to that is of course: yes, that can happen, but we want to prevent coûte que coûte. Now there's good communication. Now it has been carefully looked at what offences it is about, but it is a matter of concern to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u228	The interruptions will come if you indicate that the block is at an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A question has been asked about the online sessions in criminal law. Mrs Baay-Timmerman asked me that question. She said something about digibetes on the one hand and something about not seeing the non-verbal signals on the screen on the other. The starting point is that criminal hearings take place physically. I refer you to the annual plan of justice. The Code of Criminal Procedure and the Decision videoconferencing lay down the situations in which a suspect may refuse an online hearing and in which situations, in view of the security risks, the judge may decide that the suspects should participate digitally. The Temporary Law COVID-19 Justice and Security makes it possible to temporarily, in view of the corona epidemic, to have criminal proceedings online in more situations. After the expiry of the temporary law, the existing regime will relive in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Decision videoconference. Mr. Chairman, I come now to another question that Senator Baay has asked. In her speech she told me that she could possibly come, depending on my answer, that is unfinished present future time with a motion. I'm going into that now. It concerned the measure to allow judges over 70 years of age to continue to work. That measure shall apply until 2023. Mrs Baay asked me, are you going to extend that measure, yes or no? The measure is an effective way of temporarily giving more room for manoeuvre to case law in the resolution of backlogs. The periodic administrative consultations between the Department of JenV and the Court of Justice have shown that the case-law shares this view and looks favourably at any extension of the measure. An extension is therefore reasonable. That's gonna take a law change. I will prepare it, in consultation with the courts. That is my answer to Mrs Baay's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u230	That's what brought you to the end of justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u231	I have one more question to answer in that block, from Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u232	Let's just wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u233	Mr Otten asked about the constitutional review. Before the summer recess, your Chamber will receive a main letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and from me, in which we will discuss the design of constitutional review. In the letter we also discuss the views of all the courts. I urge you to be patient. The letter will be with you within one and a half weeks or two weeks. Mr President, so much for the heading of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u234	I thank the Minister for the clear commitment that legislation will be prepared to apply this extension to judges over 70 years of age, or at all to retired judges. In this context, I would also like to hear from the Minister how he looks at the reduced duration of training for judges that has now been proposed. That training took four years and will last three years. And right away, I'm gonna ask you the next question. Is the Minister aware of the following? Previously, 80 judges were trained a year, and now I believe there are 130. Judges must bring their judges into training. Is the Minister aware that this will put judges back in trouble? During the time when these judges are required to provide guidance for judges in training, they cannot also take part in hearings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u235	Mr President, with your permission, I will respond to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u236	Yes. Mrs Baay agrees. Mr Recourt has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u237	Once a judge has been hired, he will never be fired unless he or she makes it all the way. So I do urge the Minister to be cautious and not too easy to shorten. But that aside. My question is about these sepot cases. Those 1,500 sepot cases are now going to the state's attorney's office. Then the victim's in the cold. However, there are a lot more things on the shelf and it is reasonable that something similar happens to the sepots. Last week, the Minister sent a fantastic letter to the House of Representatives on reparation law. Is the Minister prepared to use remedial measures to prevent victims from standing in the cold? So look at the possibilities of involving the victim in the form of a recovery measure, to prevent the prosecution from taking a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u238	Quite recently I was visiting the court here in The Hague. For the first time, I made a case of reparation law. I saw how justice dealt with that. I have looked at mediation there, but in particular I have also looked at the right of recovery. I was taken to Den Bosch via a video conference. I saw for the first time how an unsub explained, along with the one who had accompanied him, what recovery law is in practice and what it means. I can share with you that I was very impressed by that. It can lead to psychological satisfaction. I noticed that. There had been some verbal violence, so the victim actually thought: there and there the perpetrator lives, so I go around a few blocks because I don't want the confrontation with the perpetrator. It can also lead to a financial arrangement or something in that direction. I noticed that the right to reparation is incredibly good. Because that's what we're talking about. In my opinion, I'm within the right lines. Restoration rights can certainly be a solution. It is already being applied in practice, I notice at the courts. I embrace that. Tomorrow I have a Second Chamber debate. Then I'll talk about reparation law, mediation and arbitration. Then I will also explore with Members of Parliament how we want to deal with it, how we can better land it and how I can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u239	But tonight the Minister is having a debate with the First Chamber and there is the question of whether the Minister is prepared to use remedial measures in that huge pile of sepot cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u240	A concrete answer: I notice that the courts are already doing so. I am certainly prepared to support and do so where I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u241	I'd like to go back to those 1,500 sepot cases. Do they have at least 1,500 victims? Of course, a case could have multiple victims. The Minister says that there has been careful consultation in advance and that there has been good communication. Did those at least 1,500 victims have to read this in the paper or was there any consideration of doing anything in their direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u242	What I know very clearly is that the victims can use Article 12 to get the case to come forward and to be dealt with. That's one. I'll come back to this in second term. I'm doing this from memory. It was explicitly stated that there was also a look at the case we are talking about at the front. But whether there has been concrete contact with potential victims, I don't know. I'll look into that for you, and I'll come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u243	It is not so much a question of carefully weighing up and looking at lighter facts and so on. That's one. That's on your side, on the justice side. It's the receiving side that matters to me. If those at least 1,500 victims have had to read this in the newspaper, then I can very well imagine their lack of confidence in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u244	I'll share that with you. I will finish this and come back in the second term with an answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u245	Then there's accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u246	Mr. Chairman, I will now come to the question of access to justice. I attach great importance to good access to justice. Access is theoretically available to every Dutchman, but access can and must be improved in practice. We've seen that in the supplemental affair. I will not dwell on that. We note that citizens and businesses also find thresholds for finding good solutions to their problems in more everyday conflicts. How do we actually do that? We are doing this by reducing registry fees, not only for citizens but also for small and medium-sized enterprises. You can see my proposal on this after the summer. We also do it by strengthening social law. That's two. We will also continue the review of the system funded legal aid launched in 2018. In addition, I refer to the effective social justice system. It is under the direction of the Council for Justice, I say. There you can see low-threshold alternative dispute resolution and the idea of introducing recovery law. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u247	That was the block of accessibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u248	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u249	A nice, short block, but of course it is also a very important block. I have a specific question that was also asked by Mr Karimi. It concerns the ratification of the third optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Is the government starting to take steps in that direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u250	At the end of last year, Secretary of State Blokhuis informed your Chamber that the decision on the optional protocols to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the third protocol to the Convention on Children's Rights, these UN Conventions, called for more insight into the financial and legal implications. In order to gain this insight, last year, in December 2021, the Council of State was asked to provide information on the optional protocols to these UN Conventions. I know that it is not yet known when information from the Council of State can be expected. I'll also give your questions to my colleague from VWS. I expect he'll be able to inform you further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u251	Very good, because this Chamber has been asking for regular steps to be taken in this area for a number of years and every time something has to be sorted out and so on. We look forward very much to this answer and to the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u252	On access to justice. The Minister visited the House of Law in Heerlen in February. On this subject, there is the initiative paper of my colleague Van Nispen in the House of Representatives and he will also be here in a reasonable time. My question is whether the Minister sees this as a solution to bring it close to people, whether it is about reparation law or otherwise, to ensure that it is possible. I am asking because this is something that we ourselves as a Chamber can find something about, both in the House of Representatives and here. If that is a good idea to bring the right closer to the people, to restore confidence, then we should not wait too long to get started with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u253	I'm taking a long run in response to Senator Janssen's question. We are working on 41 pilots in total to map out how we can improve access to justice. I also congratulated Mr Van Nispen on this initiative paper. It is rogue against a pilot that takes place in Den Bosch, where it becomes clear that legal problems that appear to be legal in the first instance often also fall into the social domain. It is precisely through an integrated approach that you are able to optimally serve the citizen who comes up with a question and answer it sustainably, because you have those disciplines in your home. I also committed to evaluate all 34 pilots directly controlled, initiated and financially supported by the JenV Ministry in the first quarter of 2023. Then I've got a map that one pilot stops. I am thinking, for example, of the House of Law in Heerlen, in July. But the municipality and the judiciary say: we do not stop, we continue, because we see that we reach people very well. I want to learn from all these experiences and I am going to share that with the House of Representatives, I have promised. I would also like to share that with the First Chamber. The House of Justice has unprecedented advantages, I can see that too. It is sometimes tailor-made for the citizen who is seeking justice, also because the social domain is so close to it and the network in society is optimally exploited. This means that this is one of the successful pilots that I expect we will take on board whole elements of it in practice, but I would like to do the evaluation of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u254	But that means that we are at least another year away from a possible sequel, if we see something now in a pilot that works well. The minister says he's going to review in the first quarter of next year. Before we complete that evaluation and before we have all talked about it and before we have translated it, we are almost in the autumn of 2023. Then we're heading for the 2024 election. That's where my concern is a little bit. If we have something that works well, we can also embrace it and possibly prepare ourselves to go through with it instead of having to talk about it in detail, if it all worked out. We've seen since 2020 that it's working well. That's where I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u255	I've probably expressed myself unclearly. I note that sometimes there are parts of pilots that are said to be good right away. These pilots also have contact with each other, sometimes via Divosa, sometimes purely through those involved. Then you can say: we take over immediately, we implement, we do. In the example of the House in Heerlen it was immediately noted that it works well and said: we are not going to wait for an evaluation from the department, but we want to keep this up. Perhaps the finances will stop on 1 July this year, but the municipality and the judiciary have said: we continue and pay for it. I initiate it, I stimulate it. It is occasional money that I have at my disposal to support it, and that is what I am doing. I also see that the chain partners see its benefits and that they pick it up and implement it, sometimes in parts and sometimes in its entirety, as in the example of Heerlen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u256	I am not specifically concerned with the House in Heerlen alone. I'm talking about scalability. If we have something that is accessible and works well in Heerlen, I can imagine that it works in a lot of places. Heerlen has been given an initial impetus from the government and is now continuing with its own resources. I can imagine that others have the same question: can we also get a first start and, if it works well, continue it ourselves? That's what my question is a little bit about. I'm not specifically concerned that only Heerlen remains standing. I just think it's a good example. To scale up good examples seems to me to be extremely important to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u257	I share that view. I just mentioned that we're also looking at scalability. By the way, Groningen wants something different than Amsterdam-Amstelland. That's what you need to play on. That differentiation must therefore be possible. But the best practices are shared and where it can be taken over. I am therefore looking at the chain partners to take their responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u258	Then you come to the a.V.'s, the other important questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u259	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let's see. I have responded to the experiments and will not repeat them. Maybe I can talk about legal aid and the relationship with the legal profession. Questions were asked about that by D66. The Dutch order of lawyers is closely involved in the renewal of the system of legal aid. The lawyer participates well in the various pilots and experiments carried out in the context of the system renewal. The NSA is also closely involved in the elaboration of the question of how the fees can continue to be up to date in the future, continuing on the improvement of the fees as of 1 January this year according to scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Commission. I think it is important to involve implementation in particular in developments in the system. For example, I went to a social attorney's office next to my regular meetings with the NSA on 31 January. I will also soon be introduced to the Dutch Association of Social Lawyers. In addition to all these conversations, I would like to continue to have conversations with the lawyers involved, who are mainly speaking against, from the point of view that there is valuable information to be added from the implementation to any kind of decision-making. I have been asked a question about the supervision of the legal profession, I thought by Mr Rombouts. The supervision of the legal profession is strengthened by the establishment of a national supervisory authority. The principle of this strengthening operation is that the supervision of the legal profession is independent, transparent, uniform, preventive and effective. In addition, given the special role and position of the legal profession in our rule of law, supervision within the legal profession must continue to be independent of the state. The national supervisory authority will be responsible, among other things, for monitoring compliance with the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and the Regulations of the Dutch Order of Lawyers. National supervision also has adequate support and instruments to ensure effective enforcement. In recent months, I have spoken with representatives of the General Council, local blankets and the Supervisory Board about the establishment of that national supervisor. On 13 June this year, I informed the Lower House, through the progress letter on organised crime during trial and detention, about the contours of the national supervisor. The contours are now being further developed. After the summer I will inform the House of Representatives about the further organisation of the national supervisor and the follow-up process. Mr President, I would like to take a look at something that I have skipped in my head and would like to answer, namely the question about Senator Otten's State Council. But let me first go into the neighborhood justice, because the senators Recourt and Backer have asked questions about that. Low-threshold access appears to be the starting point of all those pilots. The case law does so under the heading of socially effective legal proceedings. There are several pilots in the country. I mention three: the Rotterdam judge, the Hague district court and the Overijsselse judge. Those pilots are taking place. As a result, parties can easily present digital matters. They can speak at hearings themselves. The advantage is that cases are dealt with quickly. Therefore, registry fees are significantly lower than in the regular procedure. The first experiences are positive. I would also like to add a word about the district judge I spoke to in Venserpolder in Amsterdam. She explained to me that because she is in the neighborhood and in the neighborhood, it is accessible and accessible. However, not only legal issues are presented to it, but also many issues in the multi-problem of the social domain. Then there is also a search for guides. That's why I found the experiment from one of the pilots in Den Bosch more than fascinating. That is where I saw the social and legal fields coming together, making it possible to provide much more effective support and assistance. Mr. Chairman. I shall try to find the answer to Mr Otten's question in my chaos. I'm gonna do it out of my head; maybe that's better. I don't agree with that speaker. I say, there is no looming error. The independence and impartiality of the Administrative Department of the Council of State is beyond doubt to me. The Administrative Judgment Division, like any other court in the Netherlands, is completely independent and has no link with administrative bodies or any other party. I go back to the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights. Is there a lack of justice? On the contrary. The European Court of Human Rights ruled precisely in the Kleyn judgment of 2006 that there was no conflict with Article 6 of the ECHR. Then I'll talk purely about the fact that there's been a clean and proper trial. That brings me to the position I have just taken. Mr. Chairman, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u260	Thank you, Minister. I'll take a look at the side of the room. You're at the end of your term, Minister, do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u261	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u262	I would like to inform the directors and the Chamber that Mrs Baay has now had to leave the Chamber. That is to say that the request for the motion to be accepted by this deadline has been withdrawn, because that was about her motion. You can therefore also appreciate the motions in your second term, as usual. It's up to you to choose. Then Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u263	I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply, including on social law. I still have a question about that. It's actually a very direct question: what did he find? I have had the privilege to experience the period, although I am not sure if it was a privilege, of Minister Van der Steur and State Secretary Teeven and Dekker, who have all chosen a direction in which the social lawyer was not promoted, to say it neutrally, not even in funding. We were just talking about the fact that there are bottlenecks because there aren't enough judges. Is the social attorney currently equipped with the tasks that are now fortunately ahead of them and the need to play a role in all these recovery processes and in the social domain? What did he find? Then maybe he can weigh the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u264	What I found was a government agreement that made many tens of millions available to me to implement the proposals of the Van der Meer Committee on 1 January 2022. What I find is a social lawyer in which there is indeed a form of ageing. What I find is that the commercial lawyer, to put it that way, is now making agreements on how to get trainees to learn about social law and encourage it. What I find, in conclusion, is a field with which I have to work hard to promote social law, also towards the future. That's how I'm working right now. I continue to talk to them, precisely because I recognise and acknowledge the importance of social law and want to give substance to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u265	I have made an important issue of the unequal functioning of the rule of law. If you have socio-economic capacity, you can call in more protection and get it than if you don't have it. I have mentioned a number of examples of this. Some of these examples have been addressed by the various ministers, but I have not yet heard the main question as to whether the government recognizes them and considers them undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u266	In my introduction, I tried to point out that I want less wealthy people to have access to justice. Where they don't have them, I support them and open my eyes wide. I can do better than that. I talked about the child care allowance affair and the removals. I found that there was a way to get to court on paper, but not present with proper legal support. I'm doing that through trial counselors now. If there is a question, I will give it concrete and free meaning, precisely in order to protect and support them. Why do I do that? I use that as a vehicle to show that there is a difference and that not everyone knows the way. That could be due to a lack of knowledge. That could be due to a lack of ability. I'm filling in that legal protection now, where I can and where I find out he's not here and I have to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u267	The answer to the primary question, if there is that difference, is yes. The Minister fills it in on a number of elements. I have mentioned more, but I am already very pleased with this answer and the commitment of the government. The question is whether it's enough, but I'm going to think about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u268	I think I can ask my question now, if the time has come. The Minister for Legal Protection says that he has every confidence in the case law department of the Council of State and that it meets all the requirements. I would like to point out to him that former President of the Corsten Supreme Court and several other legal scholars do not agree. My question to the Minister is actually very simple. Who appoints the members of the Council of State and thus the members of the judiciary section? Does this meet the criteria of independent justice? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u269	I know that we are currently working on a proposal to strengthen the position of the House of Representatives in these appointments. I do not want to anticipate the content of this, but I know that we are working on giving much more explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u270	Yes, but the answer is: the Council of Ministers appoints the members of the Council of State. It has been concluded, also through the study of the surcharges, that this relationship with the board is too close. According to the researchers of the report, this is also the case. I would like to ask the Minister to reconsider this once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u271	I take the criticism to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u272	Thank you, Minister. Then we come to the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science, whom I would like to give the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for this opportunity to discuss freedom of the press in our rule of law with your Chamber from my portfolio. The press must be able to function independently and freely. A free and independent press provides information. Control, debate, freedom of expression and free media and journalism are indispensable to our rule of law. Free press means tile lights. It is a harsh observation, but without the free press a supplemental affair would not have come to light. Free press is crucial at all levels, including locally. A few weeks ago, the Tiles were awarded, the journalistic annual awards. If you look at the winners and their journalistic work, you will see how important good independent journalism is to the functioning of our rule of law. Freedom of the press means that journalists must be free to do their work without restrictions, without fear of threat, violence or persecution. That is why we have the freedom of the press in Article 7 of our Constitution. We don't know censorship. Journalists may publish without prior authorisation. There's no interference from the government. And yet the situation with regard to press security is worrying. Journalists are increasingly dealing with threats, physical and online. We see this in the number of reports from PressSafe and the number of freelance journalists who call on the protection package. These reports are increasing. I also hear that from journalists I have spoken to over the last few months. Last week I spoke to RTV Utrecht after a film crew was robbed of their stuff. Such an incident affects journalists and people, but especially journalists. It can continue to work in the private sphere. I've spoken to journalists who removed their name tag from the front door. I talked to journalists who wouldn't dare let their kids play outside. The Netherlands has failed the international ranking of freedom of the press. There's no reason to nuance this image. The situation has deteriorated. I admire journalists, who, despite this growing climate of intimidation and threat, are always looking at the front line to gather news and to draw up revealing stories. It is necessary, very much necessary, that the safety of journalists in the Netherlands be improved so that they can work safely and freely. For that, I want to look at what we can learn from other countries. I want to look at the position of female journalists, the importance of media wisdom, the funding of press security. Together with the Minister for Justice and Security, I come forward with an action plan for the summer recess. I'll inform the Chamber about the actions we're going to take in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u274	I hadn't heard anything about cubes, so I'm just gonna go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u275	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u276	Why, I ask the Minister, the position of women journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u277	From reports and conversations with journalists and editors in chief, I understand that women journalists suffer a great deal from threats and aggression, on average more trouble than male journalists. That's something I notice. That doesn't mean I've done a thorough investigation. The conversations show that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u278	Is that a self-report? Because it is quite fashionable, when critics, counterwinds, insults and threats, which are unfortunately shared by everyone in the public domain, to make us here, journalists and anyone else, up with the component of women, that it actually happens because they are women. It happens to men as much as it does to men. So before we go back to working on women's side wheels, I would like to ask the Minister to be quite sure that women are more victims. I don't have that impression myself. I have the impression it's always so framed. When I'm told "stupid voting" or "go away, human," it's very easy to say as a female politician: oh, that's certainly because I'm a woman. As a woman, too, I say that it is very sensitive and wrongly often the women's hating card is drawn. I would be sorry if policy were to be taken on this, because it is quite often nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u279	You ask the Minister, but it's the Secretary of State who's going to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u280	I'm sorry, I didn't have the title in order. I mean, of course, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u281	I would like to thank Mrs Nanninga for this critical remark. I'll take it with me. There are investigations, but I can't name them in years and figures right now. Maybe I can come back to that in second term. It's a good point anyway. I stand here as Secretary of State Media, because we need a strong, independent and pluralist media sector. That is why this year and the coming years are investing in local media, in local journalism and in press security. Finally. The tone of the social debate is harsh. Our society seems to polarize. That also has an impact on our freedom of the press. Words matter. We all have a role in that. I'll focus on the questions. I don't have as many as my fellow executives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u282	Do this in chapters or chapters. Blocks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u283	I only have five questions. Do you want me to just do them in a row?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u284	Then we'll consider that one block. One block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u285	First of all, Mr Recourt. In his speech he mentioned the importance of the local media. Thank you for that. I recognize that interest, too. I would like to mention here that these local media have my full attention. Strengthening local media is one of the spearheads in media policy in the coming years. 6.5 million have been made available for this year. We want to professionalise and strengthen local broadcasters. Then there is Mr Recourt's question. He asked me if I would be willing to examine the possibility of funding the regional press from a levy on advertising revenue based on large social media platforms. I checked that out for you. As Mr Recourt probably knows, taxes in the digital economy have been discussed for some time in the European and global context. For the Netherlands, it is important that there is a level playing field. Therefore, the Netherlands will not introduce such a levy itself. The Netherlands wants to discuss these issues globally. That is what happens with the G20 and in the OECD context. By the way, I would like to say that I intend to invest in Dutch films, documentaries and series in the coming period through an investment obligation. This investment obligation is for streaming services. Are we gonna ask questions after this block, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u286	That's just what the Chamber decided. Not me, but the Chamber decided. Let me say this in the direction of Mr Otten, who has a lot of problems with that. The Chamber has decided that on an order proposal. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u287	Now I would like to make a point of order, because you are kind of tempting me now. I do think that the debate is now getting very rigid around the cubes. I can even tell the rulers that such a steering attitude may not be necessary. We're having a policy debate here. I would ask that it be a little less blockery. That would be my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u288	Again, Mr. Otten, it was the Chamber itself that decided to do the interruptions at the end of the blocks. You didn't act against it at the time. I'm still relying on that Chamber order. If there's another proposal, you can do it. Then we'll put that to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u289	Fortunately, it's only five questions, so it's a very small block, so I don't bore anyone. Mr Nicolaï asked me a question in response to the report on the border, which was published in February this year. He asked whether all government records relating to acts of war by the Netherlands in Indonesia during the period covered by the report are now publicly accessible. It concerns the period from 1945 to 1949. And if not, whether the government is prepared to achieve that accessibility. Not all archive documents relating to the war operations of the Netherlands in Indonesia during this period are fully public. This is mainly because of the protection of privacy. But the archives are accessible under certain conditions. For example, researchers can access these archives for historical scientific research, such as the research of the NIOD, the Royal Institute of Language, Land and Volkenkunde and the Netherlands Institute of Military History. Those investigators have been given access. I didn't actually get any signals from them that it was difficult to access these archives. If Mr. Nicolaï has heard other sounds, I'd like to hear them. Then there is Mr Backer's question. He asked about the commitment to Mr Pijlman on research into ways of combating disinformation in public service broadcasting. My predecessor has indeed promised Mr Pijlman to investigate whether there are sufficient possibilities under the Media Act to counter disinformation in public broadcasting. This question is taken into account in the policy review media. It will examine to what extent the current legal national and European public service policy instruments are still appropriate, given current developments in fake news. Your Chamber will receive the results of this policy review. It will be completed in November of this year. Mrs. Nanninga asked for a definition of fake news. The cabinet uses the following definition of disinformation. Disinformation is the deliberate, mostly secretive, dissemination of misleading information with the aim of damaging or disrupting public debate, democratic processes, the open economy or national security. It is not primarily up to the government to assess whether there is disinformation. That does not relate well to freedom of speech. I therefore do not go into separate reports. Mrs Nanninga has indicated that her group is also concerned about disinformation. It has argued that it is necessary to combat disinformation in a completely transparent manner, without political arbitrariness. I agree with her. The Netherlands also advocates this in Europe when it comes to measures to combat the spread of disinformation on their platforms. Let me do a small part. Ms Nanninga mentioned several topics, including Russian disinformation. I'm guessing she went into the media sanctions with this, too. An important reason for these sanctions is that the broadcasting of these channels poses a direct threat to the security of the Union and that these channels are instrumental in fueling and justifying aggression against Ukraine. The reasons for these media sanctions were therefore broader than merely spreading disinformation. Then I have one final answer to a question. Mr Rombouts today asked about the impact of journalists' publications on the rule of law. Of course, journalistic publications can have an impact on the rule of law. Just look at the impact of the revelations about the supplemental affair or the documentary The blue family that has recently appeared, and what all that does. As Secretary of State, I'm at a distance from the journalistic work. That distance is also how it belongs to the law. The sector itself has a high degree of self-regulation through drafting regulations, journalistic codes, ombudsmen and the Council for Journalism. Over the last few years, I have spoken to journalists and editors who also consider this self-regulation important for their work. In my future meetings with the sector, I would like to discuss with them how they view their impact on the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u290	That brings you to the end of your reply, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u291	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u292	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your answer. The question is, what do you want first: the good news or the bad news? The good news was that we agree on the possibility of lifting platforms. The bad news is that that's going to happen worldwide, and yes, worldwide, we're not going to see that for the next ten years. While you can do it the other way around. You can think: we start nationally. Then it doesn't even have to be about the Googles in this world. Every mover is also on Funda, and not in the local newspaper anymore. Although it is a question of the familiar road, perhaps it will help if you ask it often enough, but still: why not just start here in your own home and try to expand instead of starting with the whole world, which is a much more difficult job?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u293	This part of disinformation... Let me put it this way. This part is also a bit of the Home Affairs area. So I suggest I take this question and come back to it later. It's getting a little technical for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u294	I hear you talking about disinformation. But that wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u295	Sorry, I'm not talking about disinformation at all. I'm talking about advertising revenue. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u296	I asked a question that came up with an answer that I already knew, namely that those archives are not accessible indefinitely. As a follow-up question to the Minister, I asked: is it still of this time? We're talking about a period of 70 years ago. As far as archives are concerned, and so on, the ministers at the time, I do not think they are still alive unless they were already ministers at the age of 14. So I don't quite understand the whole privacy thing. We have an open government. That's what the debate was about. We always had the personal policy ideas. That's all gone and we don't do that anymore. This privacy is, in fact, a matter of consideration. I would like to ask the Minister: how do you weigh that in relation to accessibility for everyone, including journalists, who should simply be able to consult it immediately and who should not first, so to speak, submit an entire research programme in order to be able to pass that limited accessibility? How do you weigh that up, this openness to the fact that it has been so long ago, when it is a very important subject, to which anyone who belongs to the rule of law should be able to have access, in order to investigate what happened then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u297	It concerns a part of the files that are limited to the public. I have the piece of Archive Act in front of me; I can read it to you in a moment. One condition is that researchers submit a plan. Mr Nicolaï talks about journalists. It's really about protecting people's personal data. The maximum period in the law is 75 years; that's right. But that can be extended. The actual time limit depends on when one begins to count. I can come back to this in the second term, but in practice, the archival services apply about 100 years for the protection of privacy. After that, it'll be made public. So when I look at the years and where we are, I think we're just at a limit of five to ten years. Anyway, I'm afraid to say that right now. I can figure it out, but this is the law. Some people are still alive. It's getting close anyway. And then you have to deal with rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u298	Yes, but if you submit a research plan as a historian, you'll get access. But if a journalist from De Groene Amsterdammer wants to go into those archives, he can't get access. The same applies in both cases, i.e. the possibility of privacy being discussed. So I don't understand that point at all. That's one. Secondly, as far as I am aware, it is not a strict law, but as a government you can simply determine which documents are covered by that rule and which documents are subject to different rules. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to say that, in view of how long it has been and the importance of openness, it is being realized for every journalist?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u299	A investigative journalist can submit a research plan. These are people whose privacy really needs to be protected. It could hurt families. It could hurt people. So I can't imagine... I can still figure it out for you, if that's what you want, but there's legislation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u300	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u301	If the minister says, "I can find out..."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u302	It's a secretary of state, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u303	Yes. The Secretary of State can figure it out, too. If the Secretary of State can find out, please. If there is a letter about that, I would like to see that consideration again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u304	I will come back to this in the second term. Then I can see in the second term whether the commitment can be made or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u305	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her thorough reply to the issue of freedom of the press. The CDA Group supports its firm attitude towards the free press: independent, but also safe. This has become an extra focus in recent years. So we have no difference of opinion at all. However, in a speech on self-reflection for all institutions of the rule of law, but also for key professions in the rule of law, I made a plea that everyone should do their own reflection. Now, of course, I know that journalism also has its own way of self-regulation. But I asked all three rulers I shall do it again in the second term whether they would not like to resort to journalism once in a while. Then you'll still keep your distance, as the Secretary of State said in her answer, but you can start and promote something by speaking to people. That's the position of rulers. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether they are also occasionally, at regular intervals, more willing than simply saying that they are doing fairly well themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u306	Over the past few months, as I said, I have had talks with journalists about how things are going, what the problems are, what they are experiencing, what we need and what we can do as a government. During those conversations, there was room for self-reflection, without me asking. I actually heard journalists say, "What are we doing? What are we doing wrong? What are we doing too much or too little?" I didn't have to ask that question at all, so there's that self-reflection. I also liked that there was just self-criticism. They said: if we are too critical, then politicians do not dare to say so much more in the political arena; then something happens and people cramp. In itself, journalists are always critical, but it was also about what the judgments are from outside. If journalists are not judged to be too critical from the outside, there were also accusations: oh, but you do what the government wants. It is therefore a very difficult balance for journalists. So it comes up in those conversations, but I'm careful. Because I have to be really careful when it comes to the content. For me, it's about their protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u307	I am very pleased with this answer, because you received more than we did. It's true again, what I just said, is that you have a position to get things out of people. When we asked the Dutch Association of Journalists what she herself could do to maintain the rule of law in this country, there was deliberately silence. In fact, that was the reason for me to mention this as a theme here. I think we are all here in this house and across the street, to put it once again old-fashioned, who consider freedom of expression and freedom of the press to be very high. We have a great deal to do to maintain it, because it is a crucial element of the rule of law, but I think that this target group can also be called upon to contribute to upholding the rule of law from time to time. I hope you keep asking them questions. Why call Johan Derksen and not the other journalists from time to time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u308	Can I say something about this? One correction: I'm not calling anyone on the mat. I'm not. I'll take the call, but I'm not gonna call anyone on the mat. I think everyone can feel the responsibility for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u309	Thank you for the answer to the question I asked on behalf of Mr Pijlman, who just came in with good timing at the time. Our group has been more concerned with the subject, even during the covid period. You talk about journalism, the media, but that's not a uniform field. Why does the D66 Group consider this to be such an important subject? Because a characteristic of autocracy is not to acknowledge the facts, but to decide for itself whether it is Trump who decides that the elections have been won by him or Putin who decides that this is actually a war against a colony area. Does the Secretary of State have the impression that the discussion on disinformation has a very deep foundation in the defence of the democratic rule of law? For those who determine their own facts can also destroy the rule of law in a democratic rule of law. You are careful, but do you also take this deeper consideration into account in your approach to the issue on behalf of the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u310	That disinformation could harm the rule of law is, of course, a legitimate concern. But that the media... You are right to say that it is not such a homogeneous world at all. But when I look at the public broadcasters or the local broadcasters, I see a very clear desire, a need to control themselves and each other. I think that trust is important. We have talked a lot about lack of trust today. I would like to say that we all want that to change a little bit and that we will have more confidence. I have faith and confidence in it somewhere, even though the media are so diverse, that they can regulate themselves very well. For example, look at NPO with the NPO Ombudsman, the Media Commissioner. When I look at all the instruments that are part of the rule of law and how it works, I have confidence in them, but we must remain critical and alert with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u311	Thank you. We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u312	I liked the debate. Thank you for all the answers, I say through the President. Yeah, it keeps getting used to. I have a question. The VVD Group considers it very important for journalists to be able to do their work freely and to be protected in this way. We do wonder what the Secretary of State thinks of a label for journalists, as there is a label for doctors, lawyers and other professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u313	Belgium has that. That has advantages and disadvantages. I will go into this without any preparation; I could go into it better in the second term. There are advantages and disadvantages. One drawback is that if you attach a title to it, that means you're going to select. It also means somewhere you're gonna steer. Then who's selecting? It can't be necessary, but it can go towards censorship. I think they are already diligently searching, so may I come back to this later in more detail?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u314	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u315	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then we've come to the end of the first term. We have now arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u316	Mr President, thank you. It was a pleasure to take part in this debate after Mr Karimi was unable to attend today. It is a debate in which many important questions on the rule of law were raised. Many thanks also to the directors for answering the many questions. Thank you for the intention, if I may put it that way, to make a practical difference and also thank you for sharing a vision on how the rule of law should develop. Of course, the government speaks with one mouth, but that one mouth sometimes has just different accents. I think that's good. It also helps, if I may put it that way. It is an interpretation that the rulers do not necessarily have to respond to. It's my weighting of the story. I did not belong to the JenV Minister anymore to the line of repressive policy, because the rule of law needs to stop all threats. With the Minister for Legal Protection I heard a little more the line of the need to also support and guarantee it. These are two lines, perhaps also a root and a stick, which are complementary to each other, but require a good connection. The combination of these two things, which you actually see becoming very concrete when it comes to freedom of the press, is an essential one. We have heard a number of things very well that are valuable as far as we are concerned. First of all, the Minister for Legal Protection's invitation to the wider dialogue. We'd love to take it. Glad that's going to happen, because I do think it's going to be necessary to have a further conversation and that's going to have to be an open conversation. We have heard very well that the Minister also believes that it should be explicitly substantiated when negative opinions are not followed by the government and that this should be more than 'the government sees otherwise'. This is important and we are very curious to see how this will be implemented in the context of the extension of the public service ban. That seems to me to be a good first case in which we can see whether the government really supports why it does not follow the advice. As far as we are concerned, a very important commitment is also that we get a reaction from the government to each of the abdominal pain records. I welcome the commitment on the question of the hardness clause or alternatives in the Regulatory Instructions and also the proposals for constitutional review in the main letter for the summer. I am slightly less satisfied with the response to the question of the ratification of the third optional protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That is a bit of a recurring question and also a recurring answer. Let me say, on behalf of my group, that I very much hope that the Minister for Legal Protection will support this in particular, including in the Council of Ministers. For it is a very important step, especially when it comes to access to justice, that these possibilities of the optional protocol and the optional protocol are also being developed. The continuous shifting, slowing down and asking more questions on the part of the government is not very helpful in the steps that are needed. Actually, there are a few questions left. Those who are most fundamental and who happen to be, let me just say, are covered in the committee's report which has looked at the effectiveness of anti-discrimination legislation, which we will be discussing in this Chamber, is the question of to what extent the government actually has confidence in its own citizens. The Minister for Legal Protection explicitly mentioned this as an essential point: how does the government look at its citizens? The Health and Society Council wrote at the end of last year that the government expects too much from the self-reliance of citizens and expects too little from the virtue of citizens. At that point, it will really have to be different if we are to avoid derailments. This may be linked to another question, namely whether we are actually enabling the implementing organisations to do their job properly. Indeed, we are asking a great deal of them, and this also applies, for example, to the police, I say in the direction of the Minister of Justice and Security, but do we also facilitate them enough? Do we give them enough opportunities? Are there sufficient managerial qualities, for example? Is there sufficient moral control that is needed? Is the training of employees sufficient, etcetera? Do we make it possible for the employees to do the hard work we ask them to do? There are two more questions that are really open. They're good, but they're not really answered. The first is where the rule of law itself can be at stake in tackling undermining. In other words, when will our approach to undermining itself become a problem for that state of law? Let me give you the example where, in our attempt to be as forceful as possible, we reduce the role of the judge again. Don't we also affect the rule of law ourselves? I would like to hear another reflection on that. The second question that remains open was about the role of local government in tackling undermining, in addition to what the national government and organisations are doing. I would like an answer to those two questions. We also look forward to the implementation of the commitments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u317	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Recourt of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u318	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've had a long debate. It's hard to weigh the aftertaste of that. First of all, there is a lot of attention to the government for its implementation. I think that's very positive. Implementation is an important topic in this Chamber. It's a subject that's getting more and more important. This also leads to the second positive point. What's learned? What has been going on in the last two years? What has been learned from that horrible scandal about child allowances? We keep calling it an affair, but as far as I'm concerned, it goes beyond an affair. Do you see learning ability of the rule of law, of all actors, of almost all actors? Did they look at themselves and learn? As I said in the first term, we are still waiting for the House of Representatives in this respect, but all right. I also heard from the government today that actors have looked at themselves. There are very good examples and initiatives, such as the responsive government. What has been written about for a while seems to be just being true. "Looks," I say. But at least the plans are there. Go actively to the civilian. Offer what you have. Don't wait. It's gotta be low-threshold. All such elements are important. I was a little worried about the very practical approach. It is said that we are there for citizens, and the rule of law is there to be practical for citizens. That is true, but there is also a normative side to it. So the instrumental side is well secured, but what about the constitutional side? As far as I was concerned, the Minister of Justice showed himself about abortion and her personal opinion. I thought, "Hey, now we're getting on that normative side." 'Cause there is. The rule of law is not only reactive, but also sets standards, for example in fundamental rights and in other soils that you cannot go through. As far as I am concerned, the Ministry and both ministers must also stand for that. So let's say there's a big call coming out of society saying we want this. And suppose what one wants would be contrary to those more basic standards, those uncomfortable standards that sometimes the rule of law also has. I expect these ministers to stand for that and not say: you ask and we turn. This is precisely what's happening on these abrasive subjects. How do you deal with life sentences? Do you also make legal aid available to the most horrible suspects of the most horrible crimes? You have to stand up for such topics. I'm sure that will happen, but I've heard it a little less in this debate. Good. Dialogue. Other speakers also spoke about this. Excellent when that's going to be designed with different players. There has been talk of digital validation. I didn't know that, but before that, a lot of things have been set in motion. That's very good. We await the results of that. I have no further questions about that either. I'm especially glad it's in the picture. There will be all kinds of questions from behind, but we'll see about that in due course. Putting recovery rights in a sepot? That was also promised, as far as the Minister's options are concerned. I get that last part. But it's very nice that this has been promised. There was still one big doubt left. I had prepared a motion on one of my key points, namely the inequality of justice for many. But when I interrupted, the Minister was convinced that he saw that, that he had put measures in place and that these measures were broader than just social law. I can imagine that it could be even wider, but my thought is that it is a bit of a move for the stage to make my point. I would rather wait and see what the ministers, especially the Minister for Legal Protection, are doing in the near future. Then we'll come back to that later. In fact, I hope that I will be able to say that the inequality before the law, the inequality before the rule of law, has narrowed. That's the big goal. If the Minister can do that, I congratulate him most warmly. At least this cabinet has taken the right first steps. Mr. Chairman. So I end my second term with a very positive aftertaste. Yeah, there's a crisis. Yeah, there's trouble. But despite the harsh words that we hear from time to time and which are sometimes needed when it comes to organized crime, I also see a lot of good developments, a little less pronounced. Keep up the good work, especially with that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u319	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Rombouts, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would once again like to thank the rulers for their thorough, well-prepared and intrusive response, which is a great commitment to their portfolio. I think we have had a nice and useful debate on a very important subject. I've been wondering for the last few hours if we've made the most of it. You can also be a bit self-critical and think: could it have been even better? In particular, I do not mean the Government's response, but I simply wonder if we have taken the maximum we wanted out of this debate. If you ask the government a hundred or perhaps more questions as a Chamber, you shouldn't be surprised that you get more than a hundred answers. In that sense, I would like to speak for the Minister of JenV, because I think she has done so in a more fabulous way. The answers are then systematically filtered into cubes, folders and other boxes. I agree with Mr Otten. That's the method we chose. It's also very efficient and practical, but I've tried to imagine a few times over the last few months how this sounds to the public. Then the Minister says, "Now I'm going to the next block." Then what does a viewer of the live stream think about how we're doing here? Does he think: what is this about? Perhaps we should look at that again, because in a policy debate such as today it also has the following effect. If you answer all those hundred questions one by one, you've done things right. But did we do the right thing in the debate? I think this is a good reason to reflect on this together. I mean, we in the First Chamber. My whole speech was mainly about self-reflection of the institutions that support the rule of law, the target groups and, ultimately, the social partners and the citizens, on whom you should be able to count in a rule of law. The underlying question with regard to the motion that I am about to put is: would it not be wise for our Chamber, the First Chamber, to review and reflect on its own functioning, for example, biennially, in order to contribute to the maintenance and strengthening of our democratic rule of law? I may therefore table a motion on behalf of my own group, of course, but that motion has now also been signed by the Christian Union, 50PLUS, SGP and D66. The: Mr Rombouts, Mr Talsma, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Backer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several recent crises have shown that the democratic rule of law benefits from institutions that are willing to reflect regularly on their functioning;]] [[declares that it is desirable that the Upper House should also regularly evaluate its own functioning;]] [[calls on the President, in conjunction with the College of Seniors, to form a committee that makes proposals on how the First Chamber can best organise a process of self-reflection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u321	I have one more question, one more call and one more wish. The question to the Minister of Justice and Security: is your approach a deltaplan-like approach, yes or no? An appeal to all three rulers to continue to appeal to the professions notaries, judges, lawyers, journalists, with the appropriate distance, all the understanding for it: what can you contribute to... And do not always ask everything to the government, because then you are on your own. And then I have one more wish. I wish the Minister for Legal Protection a pleasant vacation, with Mr Hirsch Ballin and Mr Tjeenk Willink, but certainly also with his own family, so that he can enjoy the right of our democratic rule of law here again at the end of August.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u322	Thank you, Mr. Rombouts. I call Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u323	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have any more motions and no more questions, so as far as that goes, the pens can go down and the phones can go down. I had planned, for the first time, that this would be a motionless debate for me, not emotionless, because emotion is enough, but a motionless debate, because I did not want a question-and-answer debate either. I have also indicated this in the first term. However, many questions have been answered. Rightly so, because they are all set. But it's also about emotion. A rule of law is legal, but a rule of law is also emotion. The surcharge affair or the "extra charge scandal" has often happened, but when we talk about Groningen, it's not about the cracks in that house, but it's about the briefcase that's always at the door, because people can't sleep anymore, because they have to be able to run at any time. Then the point is that grandparents no longer dare to let their grandchildren sleep in their homes. Then the point is, their house isn't home anymore. That's what these people are about. It's not just about the money for the cracks in the wall. It's about something completely different. And then a rule of law is not only legal, but also, above all, emotions. And then it's not just the head, but especially the heart that people often need. I would like to thank the Minister for Legal Protection for the invitation. It may have been a bit lost, but he invited us to visit him to talk about it in the autumn, in the third or fourth quarters, because time is a little lacking today, no matter how long we do this debate. I want to close with a call. From 2011 to 2015, as a deputy, I was also allowed to have youth care in my portfolio. At the end of 2014 we said goodbye, because it went to the municipalities. Then I asked young people to write down their thoughts or make poems or drawings before a big farewell meeting. One of the kids who did that was Charlotte. Charlotte proposed that at that meeting, too. That was really brave. In that call Charlotte made, you can replace the word "younger" with "citizen." Charlotte addressed it to the youth workers, but if you replace "younger" with "citizen," it could also be aimed at implementing organisations, ministers, State Secretary and MPs. I would like to read out that whole poem that she made, with that call, now in line with the debate, as I see it. Sometimes you seem to forget that your job makes a little decision about my life. When you're younger, sometimes you have to live without your parents' help, and then you'll be there. A child is young and vulnerable, has the power to grow, has so much space for change and you decide a little how this space is spent. Please, spend that space with care. The responsibility for my life is part of your job. The life I haven't had much control over for a while. You have the ability to make this heal or break. Please, do this with care. That's how you save lives. I need your heart. It was signed, Charlotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u324	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u325	Mr. Chairman. The advantage of having this debate on the state of the rule of law in two installments with a number of weeks apart is that this will give you the opportunity to assess what your contribution has achieved in the first term. I spoke on 31 May about a threatening frontland of magistrates who could be blown up on the A4 like organized crime did with Judge Falcone in Italy in 1992. Prompt reported to the VVD-Second MP Ellian a few days later in De Telegraaf, who immediately took on this theme and then travelled to southern Italy with the Minister of Justice and Security to take a look at it on the spot. Our group, of course, welcomes the fact that our contributions to this First Chamber bring good ideas to other politicians. We are also a fan of a practical minister who immediately takes action. Perhaps the Minister could let us know what new insights she has gained in Italy on the fight against organised crime. Mr. Chairman. We just heard a poem. I had invented another cultural contribution, which I wanted to sing first, but on second thought I do not. Why can't you see What you're doing to me When you don't believe a word I say? We can't go on together With sucpicious minds And we can't build our dreams On Suspicious Minds Elvis sang that in 1968. Only Elvis didn't know at the time that it was about the state of the Dutch rule of law in 2022. Distrusting everyone, sucpicious minds: that's the Netherlands in 2022. We're caught in a trap, to talk to Elvis: we're trapped. The confidence of the Dutch people in politics has never been as low as it is now. In my first term, I warned against the risk of this mistrust skipping to the rule of law. Dutch society has entered a vicious circle of mutual distrust. An important cause for this is the inward political company. I mentioned it in the first term as some kind of caste system. How are we gonna get out of here? On 31 May I appointed a number of structural institutional changes which are necessary but not sufficient. Mr. Chairman. We have an allergy to cubes. This terrible block approach hinders an integrated overall vision and sometimes leads to some kind of kindergarten debate. I would like to thank Mr Rombouts for his remark, which we fully support. We will certainly support the motion on evaluation. But completely opposed to our resistance to cubes, we had presented our contribution especially for the cabinet in six clear and convenient cubes. The first block was constitutional review. In the absence of constitutional review, the Constitution does not really exist in the Netherlands, but it is now being worked on. We await with great interest the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection. The second block was a better guarantee of democratic rule of law. As far as we are concerned, we should take a good look at how this has been done in Germany with the Bundesverfassungsschutz. The third block was tackling intimidation, online threats and other threats, to ensure freedom of expression. Last week, on behalf of the First Chamber, I attended the annual ambassador conference, with all Dutch ambassadors meeting once a year in the Netherlands. You were there yourself, Mr. Chairman. You have spoken to the company with a fascinating speech. But in the many interesting discussions with the ambassadors they also asked me: what the hell is going on in the Netherlands? I happened to be sitting next to the Dutch ambassador in Sydney. She told us how Australia is tackling the excrement of anonymous harassment by means of effective legislation. They also make demands on social media platforms. Perhaps the cabinet can get inspiration from this Australian approach. The fourth block was the ICT, chairman, and then I finish. It must be state-of-the-art, of course. Unfortunately, organised crime in the Netherlands is often much better organised than our rule of law. Let us create a level playing field as soon as possible by organising ICT quickly and properly, even if it costs money or if it requires better people. The fifth block was: the judicial function away from the Council of State. It is high time to correct this looming error. This has been discussed extensively in the debate. Finally, Mr President. As far as we are concerned, restoring confidence in the rule of law also starts by drawing a large line under 50 years of state attorney Pels Rijcken, where for years a huge fraud has been committed by the top man and to which the prosecution is still investigating. We have already tabled a motion on this at first reading to end cooperation with Pels Rijcken in an orderly manner. If this First Chamber takes its task as guardian of the rule of law seriously, it will adopt our motion next week. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u326	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with all the answers that have been given and also with all the answers that have not yet come, if I may believe the Minister. We've been talking here all along about learning ability. I understand from Mr Rombouts that we still need more learning power ourselves. What does learning power mean, for my part, when we talk about the rule of law? I have tried not to think in a block spirit but to keep my first-term speech on ethics and the link between ethics and law and the rule of law. I just wanted to take a look at that whole thing. Learning power is also: look back. You look back at what went wrong. I looked back. That was also because the NIOD came up with a special report on how we acted in Indonesia. In my view, if you really want to take responsibility as a rule of law, you should look not only at what went wrong but also at what has been done. How would you describe these actions in terms of justice? Are those crimes, maybe? That is very important for the awareness of good and evil. After all, we all need to maintain and develop that. I think the rulers will agree with that. In that context, I had asked a question about something horrific that has happened in a distant past: the actions of Prime Minister Colijn. My questions as to how the Minister views them, and whether they have not been ordinary crimes in current terms, crimes against humanity, have not been answered. I would also have asked: and if you have also received a Willems Order for those crimes, doesn't the Minister think it should be withdrawn? I would like to have an answer to that in this period. Well, let's talk about the rest of it. I have also asked a number of questions about the Indonesian War of Independence. I understand from the Minister that there will be another letter from the government. There may still be some discussion about this. But I'm inclined to say: let's give the minister some homework. I have two motions on that point which I would like to table. The first motion is next. The: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Backer and Mr Recourt tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2016 the government decided to conduct an investigation into the Dutch military action during the Indonesian War of Independence 1945-1949;]] [[Whereas, according to the report "Over the Border," the researchers have not taken into account the question of how the extreme violence they have detected should be legally qualified;]] [[Considering that answering that question can contribute to the awareness of good and evil as a bearing principle of our rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee of eminent lawyers in particular to assess, on the basis of the facts available to date, whether Dutch soldiers or officers of authority committed criminal offences during the Indonesian War of Independence and to share the report of the Committee with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u328	Then I have a second motion. The: Mr Nicolaï, Mr Backer, Mr Recourt and Mr Nanninga proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2016 the government decided to conduct an investigation into the Dutch military action during the Indonesian War of Independence 1945-1949;]] [[Whereas the researchers conclude: "The research programme has shown that actors on the Dutch side, politicians, military, civil servants, judges and other stakeholders were in common prepared to tolerate, justify and leave unpunished extreme violence in order to impose their will on the opponent and win the war";]] [[Whereas military conscripts who were required to participate in the military operations in Indonesia but refused to do so because of the foregoing, were convicted of refusing service or desertion between 15 August 1945 and 31 December 1949;]] [[Whereas the question arises as to whether, in the light of the findings of the researchers, the behaviour of these Indians and deserters should be regarded as justified rather than as grounds for punishment;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and, if so, how there is grounds for restoring honour to the aforementioned conscript soldiers who were convicted of refusing service or committed desertion between 15 August 1945 and 31 December 1949, and to report thereon to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u329	I shall conclude with a further question to the Secretary of State. In my view, Article 15 of the Archive Act gives the caregiver a power to decide which documents are limited or not accessible at all, and it is not the case that this is the result of the law. If that is the case, I would still like to hear from the Secretary of State what she can do to ensure that this is made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u330	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Talsma on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. For the long summer that the Minister for Legal Protection is going to spend with the legal scholars, I must say that, as a warm-up speaker, we have been a little too optimistic about the development of our democratic rule of law in our recent book, Hirsch Ballin: "Long, perhaps too long.' And a little further down the road: "We will have to avoid the foundations of the democratic rule of law in order to avoid further undermining it." As far as I am concerned, that is a quote from which the balance sheet has also returned to this debate. At least that's how I tasted it. Not unjustified optimism, but focused on reinforcement. My group has chosen to reflect primarily on this Chamber's own actions and actions. And passerby, I've also put questions to the cabinet. I thank the directors for the answers they have received. In particular, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security for the words which she devoted very separately to the people who are currently guarding, protected, to be secured. I very much appreciated those words, because I know from close contact with colleagues from my previous working life at the Public Prosecutor's Office how enormous the impact can be. I particularly appreciate that the Minister has expressed this in this Chamber. Thank you for the commitment, in particular as regards further information on the fight against corruption. I look forward to following up on that. As far as taking co-responsibility as the First Chamber is concerned, in order to follow up on practical signals, my group is committed to becoming more concrete than has been the case in the debate. That's why in the second term, the next motion. The: Mr Talsma, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Backer, Mr Rombouts and Mr Recourt proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a well-functioning rule of law benefits, inter alia, from high-quality legislation;]] [[Considering that it is essential that unintentionally incorrect or unjust effects of legislation or regulatory uncertainties are not only detected but are also addressed vigorously;]] [[Considering that institutions such as the Supreme Court, the Council of State, the National Ombudsman, the Judicial Board, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the legal profession regularly call in their annual reports for attention to bottlenecks in legislation and concerns about the impact of legislation in practice;]] [[Whereas such signals should be actively and structured to the attention of the States General as co-legislator;]] [[calls on the Government to compile these signals annually and to send a cabinet response to both Chambers of the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-V]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u332	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u333	Thank you, Mr. Talsma. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors very much for their response to the questions they have asked. I still have a few points. I look forward to the Minister of Justice's further response on migrant churches and their difficulties in opening a bank account as a result of legislation against money laundering and terrorism. If this can be done better by letter, as the Minister said, it is also excellent. I'm looking forward to it. The Minister responded to my questions about being allowed to criticize abortion legislation, which does not necessarily imply criticism of the rule of law. The Minister confirmed that criticism can and may be. At the same time, I do see a tendency - that was the background to my question - to put abortion more and more often as a human right. I see attempts at European level in the EU, but also in Dutch politics when criticising the Polish and Hungarian rule of law, sometimes quite rightly, which sometimes goes on criticising their abortion legislation. The rule of law and substantive political views are then confused. I think we should continue to be purely motivated here. The Minister made another personal note and expressed her surprise at the fact that in 2022 we still have to talk about the right to abortion. That's a difference in perspective. Personally, I find it completely out of date that we still dare to present the killing of human life as a solution in 2022. I predict that Mr Nicolaï's great-grandson will be asking very critical questions about this in 30 years' time. In addition, I note that schools have every right to define marriage as a lifelong love relationship between one man and one woman. If that were no longer possible or allowed, I would be really worried about the state of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. We also had a nice exchange of views on the legal actions of interest groups on the basis of Article 3:305a Civil Code and the question of their representativeness. I am happy to continue this exchange of views. That's why the next motion. The: Mr Van Dijk, Mr Talsma and Mr Nanninga proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas considerations relating to the general interest are primarily a matter for politics;]] [[Considering that legal actions by interest groups under Article 3:305a BW can have a major impact on society, while they are often specific interests that can only be weighed in a limited context in the wider context of the general interest;]] [[noting that interest groups which initiate proceedings on grounds of an ideal interest may be excluded from the admissibility requirements of Article 3:305a BW, but that it would be good to ensure the legitimacy of these actions to have at least admissibility requirements as regards representativeness;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which further requirements for representativeness should be laid down for interest groups with an ideal purpose pursuant to Article 3:305a of the WFD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-W]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u335	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u336	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u337	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for the debate and for their thorough answer to all the questions. Organised crime is a serious and serious problem. It appeals to the VVD that the Minister of Justice and Security spoke so passionately for the people on the front line, agents, journalists, lawyers, who simply need to be able to do their job without being threatened. The Minister of Justice and Security explained that there are now two packages in terms of security, light or heavy security, with little in between that is less burdensome. The VVD is pleased that the Minister is going to look at an interim solution. Mr. Chairman. Political attention is paid to organised crime. At the same time, it seems that society is not yet sufficiently aware of the magnitude of the problem. These debates therefore matter. They lead to consciousness in society. I want to end with a positive note, namely that according to the UN's World Happiness Report 2022, the Netherlands is in place five of the countries where people are happiest. The Netherlands still stands for Sweden and Norway. I'm glad I'm allowed to live here, in a free country. Let's all continue to protect the rule of law. The rule of law belongs to all of us. That's the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u338	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. Mr Backer has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the three rulers for their answers, the answers to my questions but also those of the others. Together, this gave rise to a very broad debate. Both Justice Ministers draw on the work of former colleague legal philosopher Willem Witteveen, "The law as a work of art." That is a fascinating and extremely erudite book, on which we could have a whole debate. There are philosophical considerations about what legislation can do and what the criteria for good legislation are. One of them is "fine," and it is therefore appropriate that the Secretary of State be present here, imagination, imagination of an organizational idea in society, the qualification of morals and customs that also arise from society. We can also read that in Witteveen. For not only the government is a creator of justice, so are its citizens, in dealing with each other and in respecting legitimate interests. The fact that we can do that is one of the reasons why Mrs De Blécourt points out that in this country in general, I believe that Mr Otten still has a bit to go. Oh, now I've provoked someone, I think. Mr. Chairman. The Minister for Legal Protection put the emphasis on trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u340	Finish your sentence, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u341	He spoke very passionately about this in the context of the situations he found, for example in the removal places. I found that he made a very important point. That is also a point which the D66 Group very much welcomes. If we do not begin to approach the democratic rule of law on the basis of confidence, then we can almost only approach it through repression. That is not possible; both elements will have to play a role. In it, I think, is a task for both rulers. It is almost as if the subjects are divided over two rulers; I do not think that is possible in essence. That is why I believe they will find a balance in both approaches to the rule of law. That two-unit will grow over the years. We will see that again in the next debate on the rule of law. The next debate on the rule of law is in three quarters of a year's time when Mr Weerwind returns with a letter or a thought that he has announced. That may not be a debate on the rule of law, but it is a debate on the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more point that I would like to make. That's about the side of repression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u342	Shall I have Mr Otten finish his interruption first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u343	Yeah, I'd like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u344	I thought maybe the part about repression was there because of my block remark. But Mr. Backer is very concerned about my happiness. I am pleased that Mr Backer is doing so. I can assure Mr Backer that I am happy in my own right. But what I'm not happy with is the caste that controls politics here in the Netherlands. That is what I said in my contribution. The problem is: that seems to get through to me, and to others, but not to Mr Backer. Lucky for you, that has nothing to do with it. That has to do with you stepping outside your own caste and seeing what is going on in society. I just wanted to remind Mr Backer that he did not fully understand my contribution. So I'm gonna explain it to him a little bit more. But thank you for your good care; it is greatly appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u345	One of the reasons why I have trouble with Mr Otten's vision of the caste is that I wonder: what is the caste? That's the same as the elite? I have to say, then, that he has been a part of this for almost three years now. Maybe that's unintentional, for the sake of changing it, but he's part of it. And luckily, because that will allow him to make those comments and allow us to have the debate on the rule of law. That's what this meeting is for. That is what Parliament is meant for. It would be a shame if we were no longer allowed to have that debate, because we are a caste. I am glad, by the way, that Mr Otten is happy, I say from person to person. But functionally, perhaps unintentionally, we belong to a group of privileged people who are allowed to hold this debate. But we do that on behalf of voters. We do not do that as a separate group of people and not for our own good. Mr. Chairman. Actually, I only had one point. That is about trust and repression, the two portfolios that must, of course, work together. That is also the advantage of having the debates a little later. A pre-advisation of a Dutch Lawyers Association has been issued; it is called The Repressive Society. It instructed the pre-advisers to look at the extent to which both civil, administrative and criminal perspectives have changed in the direction of repression. Actually, we're not speaking enough about that. The conclusion is that this has happened rather strongly and we have to ask ourselves whether that is a good thing. I would actually like to give that as a reading tip to the two rulers. Finally, I still have a motion, but it is very short. This concerns the subject that I raised in the first term and also in an interruption, namely the position of the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection in the legislative system. The: Mr Backer, Mr Recourt, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Talsma and Mr Rombouts proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a need to improve the quality of legislation and to strengthen the full responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Security;]] [[notes that the Council of State has made recommendations to this effect (letter to the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, dated 20 April 2021);]] [[calls on the Ministers for Justice and Security and for Legal Protection to follow up, in particular, the institutional strengthening which will enable them to fulfil their full responsibility more effectively, and to report back to this Chamber, starting in 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35925-VI-X]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u346	Let me explain something to you. Much has been said about strengthening the legal function in the ministerial hierarchy. But I am concerned here with strengthening JenV's position in the context of cabinet policy to strengthen the quality of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u347	It seems to me to be a nice motion, but a question for clarification. It is about institutional strengthening. My question is whether Mr Backer can give a more precise explanation of what is meant by institutional strengthening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u348	The opening with "sympathy" is usually a deadly one, but that is not how I know Mr Ganzevoort. My intention is that this position should really be found in the agreements between the departments. However, reference has been made to the Rules of Procedure, but both in them and in the working arrangements between them, and in what form the ministers themselves can better assess, JenV should be given such a position on the basis of which she can say: we want to be able to carry out this quality control, including in departments where there is a hurry, where it must be quickly or where implementing bodies have said that it cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u349	Does that mean that JenV should actually play a role in monitoring the quality of that legislation in all these legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u350	She already does, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u351	Yeah, but then you say it's reinforced. I asked what that backup was in, but now I know where you're going with this. Stronger than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u352	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u353	Thank you. Mrs Nanninga, on behalf of the Nanninga Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u354	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for their reply. We have heard from Minister Yeşilgöz a number of concrete measures and an approach. We look forward to it with interest. We also heard an ambitious speech from Minister Weerwind. We look forward to this, too, with interest, with the remark that I wonder if such an operation really penetrates into the capillaries of the street and society in order to restore confidence in the rule of law. It sounds like a top-bubble thing we should definitely be able to talk about together, but well, we're gonna see it. A major feature of my speech in the first term was, of course, the press and the media. I would like to quote my request in that speech: should the free speech and the free news garage be restricted, we would ask that this be done in accordance with transparent and clear standards and frameworks and also consistently. On that point, I did not find the reply of the Secretary of State to be entirely satisfactory. Of course, I know the definition of fake news given by the Secretary of State and used by the government, but the Secretary of State also said she wasn't going to talk about individual cases. That is of course a bit too easy, because that happens, for example with Unheard Holland, with VI, with Mr Derksen, by D66-minister Kaag, while it is not even her portfolio. And there is an individual opinion that it is only right that this program is of the tube. I would like to stress that I do not support Russia, the Russian invasion or Russian propaganda in any way. No way, but I'm on the N.V.J.'s side, saying don't censor this. I really personally understand how to deal with certain media or certain expressions that you think go too far, but especially D66 doesn't have a good track record in it. I trust Secretary of State and Minister of a party that runs the entire NPO at its sole discretion. The argument of inciting aggression, which would be a danger to well-being, I can get into that. But there again I have the question of being consistent and not selective. Look at the internet forums of football supporters. Check the wappie websites. Just grab a lady's platter, just at the kiosk for sale. If you open that up, it contains dangerous disinformation, for example in the form of advice on the application of homeopathy and acupuncture to small children. You can read it in any mainstream lady's magazine. That is quite a danger to public health, especially if you do that instead of regular medical treatment. But you can do all that. It's okay in this country. So I understand the criterion, but it's not consistent. I keep worrying about that. The answer of the Secretary of State to the insane suggestion of a member of the VVD's office to establish a quality mark gives me some hope. I really hope we're not gonna get started on that. Mr. Chairman. We're not really gonna figure it out right now. I have to say quite frankly that my group does not know exactly where the border lies at the edge of criminal law either, but then you really are in slander and threat. That's just not where we're gonna end up. I'm not filing a motion either. I am simply going to call once again on the rulers, especially the Secretary of State, to remain very critical and self-critical about this. I share her call for confidence, but above all D66 really has some steps to take when it comes to dealing with the media. Again, I'm not gonna put that in a motion. I am going to promise that my group and my party will continue to play a role in this respect, for the media in our beautiful rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u355	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I call Mr Hiddema, on behalf of the Frentrop Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u356	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their input. This is my first major debate on justice. I'm dealing with mixed emotions. I hardly dare to enter into this debate. It makes me shy. No crooked toes, but I'm thinking, oh, my God, what did I end up in? This is so abstract; this is so theoretical. This is about the rule of law. For me, this is an organisation supported by mature citizens who recognise themselves in the rule of law and who are served by law in the manner they consider appropriate. That's it. To what extent does this rule of law respond to the wishes of citizens? It's supposed to be central. But what I see here is more of an internal discussion. It is very kind to each other, very worthy, but it is of no use to the citizen. I'm sorry. It is late at night, but partly on behalf of the citizen, I think: how? And then suddenly I feel very comfortable with our new Minister of Justice and Security. I think he feels the same way. She likes action; I can feel it in my water. No nonsense. It's not the paper reality, it's the one from the workplace. Right? Yes. Talks don't fill holes. That's what we need. We can work with that. That'll help the public. It has already begun well with the abolition of the MIT, an unholy prestige project of its predecessor. I have followed her entire debate closely, on the tip of my chair. You'll be forced to, because a verbal machine gun will be unleashed on you. With her honored predecessor, you could sit back for a while. But that's not what's here. This is a herb-rud-me-not with the strength of your heart. We'll see about that. Well, that's convenient. 'Cause all the tricks her predecessors came up with when they got in, they don't work anymore. Measured a crimefighter mentality, mangy poses on the front page of De Telegraaf next to seized expensive cars and bags with contraband and "we'll teach them, we stand tall," it doesn't work anymore. We can't do this anymore. How can I put it? The rooftops are screaming that we'll teach them a lesson, because increasing punishment doesn't work anymore. That was always an old method of manifesting yourself as a new ruler or woman: the punishments go up. We can't do that anymore, because the rack's out. I can't do that anymore; I can't do that anymore. Something really needs to be done. The rule of law is good on paper, I think. The paper basis of the rule of law is very solid. It simply means that the rule of law and what the citizen demands of them must be strengthened with courage and courage. Well, then we can work with this minister. MIT's off the hook. We now have a state commission on the rule of law, more or less. If I were the minister, I'd say disarm it immediately, don't start. This is going to be a disastrous debate. Very worthy, I'm sure. That's gonna be a meeting circuit with all the usual suspects, decent palaver and a lot of declarable hours. In a few years, the Minister will be grateful to receive the report. It's in the drawer, and it's no use to us. It's no use at all. We're just gonna do something real now. So stop the Dutch reporter, because we have already received so many reports towards the Ministry of Justice that nothing has ever been done with. The shore turns the ship, so things have to happen now. As far as I am concerned, the rule of law can really be judged, but what you don't hear about is the scourge of the use of firearms. Almost not a day goes by before you could say: no weekend goes by without in certain city quarters teenagers, youngsters shooting at each other. That's totally crazy, but it's just gonna happen. It's like we're gonna think of that as a natural phenomenon: it's part of it, it's probably. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what the citizen's worried about. It recognizes a situation of total lawlessness, day in and day out. Those guys don't make a mistake... have IQs up to 80 and you're done, but you're done with a firearm. There has never been a situation in the rule of law as we know it, for years, that so many domes with so many weapons terrorize public space, but nothing happens to it. I'm sure this Minister will do something about that, because that's possible. I already suggested it once. There were files that were drowning because there wasn't enough manpower to pry through them. What are you gonna do? Don't put them on the shelf right away. No, you're just gonna rake them out on a gun suspicion. You'll find them everywhere, because all the criminal organizations have members with weapons around them. That's... Sorry, my dentist didn't do his job today. So all you have to do is get all those files... It's been nine out of ten. Nine files of criminal organizations out of ten were not prosecuted. Now, if you're gonna be eight of them by now, I hope you're gonna check on weapons suspicions, you're gonna have to act massively. Very simple, then you have to send a signal. Then you have to perform massively. Then you're gonna put in a couple of cops who are sick of the atmosphere on the work floor. They're visited by the minister at home. Why don't you just take a look at what's going on in the workplace? Then I say, "Pietje, I think you're sick of your workplace. How are you? You're not physically ill. You know what you're gonna do? You'll get one of those files, along with your buddies who are also sick, and then you'll go through those files together on the Arms Act." Then you have ten, fifteen suspicions. You'll have it in a minute. Then you have to act massively against all 15 addresses at once. That's gonna chop it up. Then you give the signal: possession of weapons will not be tolerated and you will not be able to get away with another bag of money through youth aid. I have heard it again here: we must be very careful about prevention. That doesn't work on those guys, and there's thousands of them. Guys who already have a gun at home, and there are thousands of them. From 12 to 18 years, thousands. They have a weapon, and that's where they take their whole stature, their whole macho culture. It's part of their personal equipment. That's what they take to the streets. They're not planning anything like that, but it's part of their equipment. Then they come into conflict with their macho fights on the street, and then there's shooting. They barely know why after all. That's how it goes. And in all these houses are boys with a gun. Do you really think that these little boys are trying to find a job with the help of the aid? Of course not. You have to deal with them repressively first, so that the whole neighborhood, the whole neighborhood, knows: there's teams coming at our houses, they're emptying our whole houses, and if they find anything, you're screwed. Look at the effect that's had. And it's never been tried. Why doesn't anyone want that? I told your predecessor to do that. I made a big mistake because I called it a raid on weapons. You know what he said? World War II is over. Again tabooizing a tricky subject. End of discussion. It's gotten worse and worse and you have a wonderful job to do something that your predecessors have been letting go for years: just massive raids on weapons in certain city quarters, so everyone knows "Oh dear, they're back, now we're screwed." Then the parents say, "You don't show up in the street with a gun." They really don't need youth support for that. Youth assistance is only welcome at home if the parents think: we're doing nice and sweet, sweet, and then there might also be a financial advantage. But the boy doesn't change, and it's getting worse. You say you're weak. You say you're weak. With a firepower of awesomeness. That is what the rule of law excites and worries about. Not if you live here, but if you live there. Then I think that someone, including in the First Chamber, who wants to protect the rule of law, should tackle that state of lawlessness. This minister is willing to do that. I'm sure of it. Let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u357	Mr. Hiddema, you asked me to warn you if you had five minutes left. That is the case at the moment. I therefore respond to your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u358	I wish I'd thought of that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u359	I respond to your request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u360	That's it. Then we have a few leftovers. A motion has come to me that deals with dikastocracy, I have seen in haste. An interest association that, with the Civil Code, Book 3, Article 305 in hand, says: "I have a general interest, judge listens to me. My name is Urgenda and the CO goes." That. I understand that the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State for Law Enforcement wanted to think about that. Well, I can give him a thought. Right-wing Urgenda people can also turn their heads. They're not that stupid. They think with a crackling windmill in the garden and the treaty: I have a right to health, my health. I'm just calling it a cross street. They set up a foundation and then they take a human right: we all get sick of those windmills. And then they go to court. And what does the judge say? "No, I won't allow that claim." And then you're screwed. Then they say, "Urgenda does and we don't." That's how the judge gets into a political joust. That's how it gets involved in politics, when it doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u361	What motion are you talking about, Mr. Hiddema? On what motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u362	Let's see. I've seen him. I'm not making it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u363	For the record, we are dealing with Mr Van Dijk's motion for a resolution. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u364	Mr. Chairman. Is Mr. Hiddema familiar with...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u365	Mr Van Dijk wishes to give a certain extension to that motion, or at least to its interpretation. I'd say get rid of the whole article.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u366	I have now given the floor to Mr Backer, Mr Hiddema. So Mr. Backer has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u367	Is Mr Hiddema familiar with the Virus Madness Group and the, well, 30, 40 briefs and procedures that that group has conducted?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u368	I've heard of Virus madness, and I think it's insane. So I do not follow these procedures in substance, because I find them insane in advance. So I'm not all aware of that. What is the meaning of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u369	The substance of the question is that that is also an interest which considers that it should be heard by the court. And it's okay. You say that there might be interest groups that would not be admissible... You didn't say it in those words, but that's what the motion is about. It is therefore a question of admissibility before the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u370	Would you both like to talk through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u371	Mr. Chairman. It is therefore a question of admissibility before the courts. That is why I asked Mr Hiddema if he is familiar with this. But he reassures me, because that admissibility is obviously known to him and he knows they exist. That seems to me to be a sufficient answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u372	I can reassure you very simply on that point: yes, I know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u373	Mr Hiddema continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u374	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u375	You can see that on the clock. You have three minutes and 57 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u376	How about I spend it quietly and enjoy it? Or I say, "Well, keep them." Shall we try that? It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u377	You're finishing up? Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend on request until 9:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u378	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u379	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's always a pleasure to debate here. That is really completely different from that in the House of Representatives. You have to be focused in a completely different way. You get put to work and get your ass kicked every once in a while because you give answers. But still, I thought it was a very, very nice debate and I look forward to this part, the second term. Thank you very much. I would just like to start by saying that Mr Recourt gave me enough brackets in his second term to comment on why I stressed that a pragmatic attitude is very important to me. That comes entirely from the idea of normalizing. I know very well what we have to protect and cherish here and who we do it for. I do not often talk about it in debates, because I do not think it is relevant. But in this debate it might be good to start my second term with the following. I was born and raised in a country where there is no rule of law. It wasn't there and it still doesn't work. I know what it's like if the rule of law doesn't protect you, knowingly not. That's different from what we were talking about tonight. I know what it is like when minorities, certain groups, are not protected and when the opposite happens, namely that they are attacked by that same state. Because you can't call that the rule of law anymore. At the moment when you see the rule of law very much as a theoretical or philosophical concept, I absolutely do not want to say that it was done here by anyone, but I am trying to explain my attitude, or if it only exists on paper, I know what it does in people's daily lives. I know what it does, if the rule of law does not exist or does not work, as in the case of Charlotte mentioned by Mr Janssen. The only thing that matters to me is constantly the question of how what we are discussing here, how does it land? If that's not what we had in mind, how do we translate it back? Who are we protecting? Who are we trying to protect? And if that doesn't work, what do we do about improving it? My attitude, that pragmatism, is directly linked to this, particularly because I know how fragile the rule of law is and how it demands continuous action. We really need to fight for it to be protected. It's an act. It's not philosophical consideration. In itself, it can add something and it can certainly be very interesting. But it must always be about action, action and the question: what is it about? That's what I just meant. For example, I have listened to all these questions and questions, including in the first period, and I have tried to respond to them. So thank you for those brackets and the standards. For me, it is very special that you have heard it come by a few times this evening, and that I have put forward proposals which I myself as a Member of Parliament can now take up as a minister and try to put them into law, just as simple as that. For example, we are talking about a ban on homoconverting, so-called homogeneous singing. As a Member of Parliament, I was very much in favour of a ban, knowing that it is not so easy to define and define it. But it is primarily about setting the standard, showing the lower limit and saying: we in our country do not accept that young people hear all the time that what they are is not right and that they can be helped. I therefore hope that we will make good laws. I say "hope," but that's my job, of course. I put everything on everything that really works. But I will never forget, for example, a regulatory factor on such issues. For example, I have many more examples. I hope to be able to defend them here in the coming years. Then the cubes. I was just saying to the President that I remember that we Members of Parliament said at some point: we simply don't know what this govern ment representative is talking about all the time and when we can interrupt, so it can't be made clearer, so we know when and when we can interrupt. Perhaps we should find a way in which we can keep an overview, but so one does not get the feeling that you can then not deviate from it. It's more like an overview. I have one more comment to make. Thank you to Mr Talsma for stressing the importance of the people in the front line. We cannot often mention how grateful we really are for the work they are doing. When Mr Talsma brought that in, I thought: perhaps I should add one more group that we did not bring forward tonight, and those are the people who guard and protect us. It is never too much for them, while the number of people who need to be guarded and secured increases rapidly, as I said in my input. That is a very strong message, when you look at what that means to our society. We can hardly train people at the same rate. We do it, we do our best, we free up a lot of money. But in the meantime, we have men and women who stand for our safety and it's never too much for them. They will never say, no, this is not possible. But I know what hours they're running, what stakes. They also have family, they have friends, they want to come home safe. Let me therefore, with the help of Mr Talsma, give them the attention they deserve. I have a number of specific questions and three motions for resolutions. The other motions and questions will of course be taken by my colleagues. Without cubes, in random order, that's actually an accident, but that's convenient now. I will start with the question of GroenLinks: where is the state of law at stake in tackling undermining? It is very important to stress that organised crime is one of the most important threats to the rule of law at the moment, and that the fight against it protects precisely that rule of law. That is why I think we need to pull everything out of the closet to fight this criminal industry, these structures, and you name it. And sometimes that means that we do indeed have to look up the borders, but only if that is for the protection of our society and if there are no other opportunities to do so. As far as I am concerned, of course, we always do so within the safeguards of our rule of law. The moment we think 'this is going to hit the border', it is also up to us to say that something additional is obviously needed, for example as legislation, in order to get it right and to come back again. We fully agree on this, but it is precisely in order to protect our rule of law. In other places I have also said that I think, if you look at the danger we are facing now, that we have been too naive in recent years, in terms of our way of working and the money we had made available, which we are stepping up very quickly. It could also be that our laws and regulations will not be complied with. But I hear the question from this whole Chamber: if so, come up with thorough adjustments. Of course, that's how I'm in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u380	I am very pleased with a minister who wants to take such clear steps and so much so. But one of the characteristics of the rule of law is that the government is also bound by that same law. That always makes me a little cautious when I hear a government looking for boundaries. We see that happening, too. If you want to create security, you could hang cameras everywhere, but we don't want to, because that undermines the same rule of law, where we as citizens are safe from that government. This applies to many areas. You mention homoconversion as an example, outside the undermining. The Minister himself says that you have to look very closely at how you define that, because you also touch other aspects. It is precisely that weighting that I am not comfortable with when the Minister says that we are looking for the limits within the law. Then let me put it very specifically to that undermining. How transparent do we do that? We know that in the search for these borders, the police and the investigation services sometimes also bend those borders a little bit. I think that is a great risk, because that is where we really damage the rule of law, as the protection of citizens from the public authorities. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u381	I think that's a perfectly right dilemma, especially if you're going towards those boundaries. I understand very well what is said here: if you say you're going to look up that border, make sure you do so transparently. Perhaps I should cite an example that is not directly linked to undermining, but to a dilemma that I have recently presented to the Chamber. That was about the threat of state actors, but it could also be other actors in the cyber domain. All the institutions and agencies that we have set up are now stalling. The moment they know that hackers are working and see that they can hit your company, they can't share that information. If you can share that information, you can switch very quickly and protect your own data. Then you're also talking about data that, for example, would be in the interest of national security. What did I do? We're working on legislation, but it takes time. It's been sent to the Chamber, but it hasn't been scheduled or treated yet. I have submitted a letter saying that I want the Chamber's space until the law is dealt with in very exceptional cases. After that, I'll report to the Chamber immediately. I can't do that either because of security. I would like to be able to share that information, while not legally allowed, to ensure that citizens' data is protected before a hacker enters. Now I'm gonna knock it down a little bit, 'cause it's a little more complex than that. The conversation with the Chamber was very nice. Of course, they rightly indicated that they were not waiting for that at all. But the risks can be quite considerable. No one can take care of that. So the Chamber wants to get along with the law itself. Then we'll do the same from the point of view of our role. In the meantime, it may be in very exceptional cases if the Chamber is informed immediately thereafter. The lessons from this will be taken into account in the treatment of the law. That's an example where you actually cross the border, when you don't want to. But if I didn't, I'd get the question later: if you saw these risks, why didn't you tell me? This was a fairly clear example, which played very recently. I think that's how we're supposed to deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u382	I'm sure I'm okay with that. Everyone here understands these dilemmas, I think. Everyone also understands that sometimes intervention is necessary, sometimes at the edge. But it is precisely then that transparency is extremely important, so that we can make a good balance with each other. Then we can also properly shape the government's supervision of what is needed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u383	I fully agree with Mr Ganzevoort. I come straight to his question about the involvement of local government in tackling undermining. Mayors say that we cannot share certain information and are stuck. I often say to them: give me practical examples and show me where it gets stuck, because then I can not only build up a file, make a story around it and look for solutions, but also present you where it gets stuck, what the boundaries were and how I want to pick it up. Wherever possible, I think we should make it as concrete and practical as possible, so that everyone understands what it is about. I will come back with a few sentences to the approach in Italy, where they do it in a certain way that I think we may be able to learn from, namely by being very specific about what space you create, for whom and for what purpose. Local government is incredibly important in the integrated approach to organised crime. The local government has a number of own instruments, such as the Bibob Act, in which we have created extra space within the safeguards, so that mayors can at least tip each other off to pay attention when they have taken a test, know that a guest is no good and goes to another municipality. That was not allowed until recently, but now it is possible, within the safeguards. For example, it is also a question of closing down drug houses through Article 13b of the Opium Act. The legality of the use of these instruments can always be challenged before the courts. Of course, that's how it's arranged. I also think it is a good thing that the additional funds from Princess Day provide additional investment in the regional approach through reinforcement programmes. The partners working together in a region, including municipalities, can thus address specific problems by region. They're just a very important partner in this. We can't do it without them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u384	I'll come back to the point before that. I just had to let it go down. I also saw Mr Backer look questionable. I kind of had the idea, though I could imagine your example very well, that you actually know you can't do it, but you do it anyway because there is a greater interest. Such an argument would allow you to take all kinds of corona measures and violate fundamental rights without emergency legislation because you say: there is a greater interest. The rule of law demands that you have a legal basis for such an intervention. I can actually hear you say that sometimes I can do it without a legal basis. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u385	Definitely not. That is not how we discussed it in the House of Representatives. The law is there, but actually very early, so before my time, we have found that there is a looming error in it. Very important information, in this case about cyber threats, cannot be shared with those who are at risk of being attacked at that time. Since then, a law has been being worked on. It has now been sent, but the threat we are now seeing from Russia and Ukraine has only made it more topical and more real than it was that concrete attacks could take place. Then it would be very bad if I were to say that the law has not yet been dealt with, and so I take that risk, without presenting the dilemma or inventing a solution that is not beautiful but is a solution. So I put it to the Chamber. The Chamber has also named and said exactly these elements: in view of the risk and the importance, we understand what you are doing, but we want to guarantee that. For example, it had to be a very tight balancing framework. So that's what we shared. That's what we've prepared and shared. The Chamber also wanted to be informed immediately afterwards, so that it can see what happened. There were many more demands, but let me summarize. The Chamber also wanted these lessons to be involved when it happens before the law is dealt with or in force. That is, therefore, the best possible transparency, in a dilemma in which I had no other choice at the time. That law is done, but it doesn't work that way. Of course, we need the proper steps to do that. The other option would be next. I see it happening. I'm seeing a war. I see cyber threats becoming even more real than they already were, but I accept that. There is a danger that information from Dutch people about municipalities or companies that are not allowed to enter the streets can simply be stolen. There may be threats with ransomware. I couldn't take that chance. So I'm just gonna put it here. Mr Nicolaï is quite right that you can also resolve certain issues with an emergency right. If you can, you can. But that didn't apply here. That's all it was at the reception of Ukrainians. Then we did so in order to give responsibility to the mayors for the reception of Ukrainians. You're gonna take care of that by means of an emergency. But for this there was no other solution but simply to present the dilemma in a public debate: can I deal with it this way, as long as that law is not yet in place? And luckily, the room said yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u386	You're putting it before Parliament. That's what's being discussed. Perhaps I would have said as a lawyer that you could have made an emergency bill that you could have submitted to Parliament in one day. It's about me that once you've taken such a step, I can think of some other topics where you could do that. At the moment it may not be, but if I think about it, I might be able to think of ten other examples in a week's time. In addition, with the same reasoning as the Minister has now used, you can say that as a government you actually have no authority and know that you are acting illegally, but it has been discussed transparently with the Chamber so you are going to do it anyway. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u387	I do think Mr Nicolaï is taking the turns for a very short time. Of course, all possibilities have been mapped out. That's also shared with the Chamber. There's not gonna be an emergency bill for this in a day. If there was another way I could have done it, I would have done it another way. Mr Nicolaï says: you have to make sure that the way we have arranged things here with each other adapts to the real threat outside. I can't stop that war. I can't stop the real threat of that either. So I have to. Then I considered all the options. I thought, "I don't have any room except to wait for a law." But I could also ask permission to act in very exceptional. It does not apply to any potential threat, but only to very exceptional cases where national security may be at stake. That too is the responsibility of the government. That too is the task of all of us here, I think. Sometimes there are such difficult decisions. We expect each other to do it transparently. I think that is a very important element. I just put it on the table: this is what I'm dealing with. I told you what all the options were and what I came up with. I said, if anyone has a better idea, be welcome. 'Cause what else were we supposed to do? I think that's exactly the way we have to deal with each other. I wasn't going to make such a proposal every week. I can't get away with that either in the Lower House, but it's not how I see this work either. But sometimes things happen around you and then you have to switch if you want to keep Dutch people safe. Well, let's hope that that law will be dealt with quickly and we will resolve this properly, but I'll also mention this as an example of transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u388	I suggest that you continue your response to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u389	Mr Rombouts asked: is the approach to undermining a Deltaplan-like approach? If we say that a multi-annual rule-over multidisciplinary approach - we have equally googled by national, regional and local authorities with a strong public-private and international dimension could be a delta plan, then it is certainly a Deltaplan-like approach. Mr Otten asked: can you go into Italy? I'll do that briefly. We will undoubtedly be discussing it longer when we can incorporate it into our laws and submit it here. What they have made very clear in the past few decades is that the approach is really aimed at dismantling entire criminal networks and much less at individual suspects. That's, if you say it very chargedly, the difference. If you are in detention, they will ensure that contact with the outside world is closed, within the safeguards of the rule of law. Italy is also a rule of law. That's what rules are for. They're gonna get the network decapitated. That's what it is. They have an article, 416bis.. or is it 140bis; no, 41bis is the regime and 416bis is the overall law that is underneath................................................................................................................................ "This is the Mafia's approach. The Mafia is an organized network and if you want to tackle this in concrete terms, you can share information with each other within these frameworks." They also have just to do with an AVG and yet they have found space in it. "This way you can have detention regime. This way you can take money and fight money laundering." We have Article 140, Code of Criminal Law. That is quite general, so you can get into discussions very quickly about who you are dealing with with. I think we can learn from Italy how to tighten it and how to aim it. You can also think of elements that Mr Recourt just mentioned: the broadening of the key witness scheme, I know that they are also using them much more widely, and the regime towards regret victims. These are all elements that I like to look at. I'm also looking at other countries. In the coalition agreement we say "for example Italy." We can learn from that and we can professionalise our approach. It took them 30 years. I hope we don't have to. We can just learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u390	It is very sensible, I think, for the Minister to look at how it has been dealt with in Italy, because organized crime in the Netherlands is beginning to take on very serious forms. The next question is perhaps also a question for the Minister for Legal Protection. You keep hearing that these criminal networks are more or less continued from prison, also from the Ebi in Vught, because they all meet there again. Should we not follow this approach and put those very serious criminals more isolated in detention? This question may be a bit for Mr Weerwind, but the Minister is a practical person, like me, so how does the Minister feel about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u391	Mr Weerwind can indeed comment on it, because he has also studied it and is concerned with it. In the end, I really think you can learn from countries around us, like Italy, which have developed certain elements. We don't translate and copy that one-on-one to the Netherlands. This cannot be done from the point of view of the problem and not from the point of view of the way in which we have organized society. We can learn from elements that can be tighter and better here, allowing you to act more effectively. Mr Weerwind will undoubtedly address the prison regime specifically. Then Mr. Hiddema. He spoke very kind words. I just ran into him during the suspension. I said thank you for the kind words. Then he said, "Now you have to make it happen." So there went another line quickly. But thank you again. Mr Hiddema made the point about the use of firearms earlier in another debate in the Upper Chamber with me. I very much agree that illegal possession and the use of firearms should be significantly reduced. This is absolutely not what Mr Hiddema meant, but I would like to give the following example. Recently, we gave advice to the committee that is now looking at the Arms and Ammo Act to look at, for example, those 3D weapons. The detectives and the police indicate that their use is increasing, that those things can be found on the street and that they are dangerous to the person holding them and the person on the other side. We need to see how you can reduce it. Which parts of which should you ban so that it is effective? But Mr Hiddema is talking about a bigger and different problem, I know that. It is not for me as Minister of JenV to instruct the Public Prosecutor how to do it and how to look for it, because then I will interfere with prosecution and we will not do so. I'm in regular conversation with the D.A.'s office, and I can even ask them how they deal with those files and how they see them. So, I'd like to pick up that conversation without, of course, telling the D.A. how to do it. Then I am with Mr Nicolaï. He has tabled two motions, which I can immediately involve, and asked a question specifically about Prime Minister Colijn and the assessment of the current standards. At the moment, it is not for me as JenV minister to express an opinion on the then Prime Minister Colijn and on the actions of Dutch soldiers in the Dutch East Indies. I think it is really good, as I have just said, for the debate that is going to take place with the cabinet response to take place, and perhaps the reaction will not be specific, but that is the debate that involves this question in order to be able to deal with it as a whole. I would therefore ask that those two motions, which naturally require other elements, be retained until that debate. I really think they should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u392	For the record, this concerns the motion with the letter 'T' and the motion with the letter 'U'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u393	Yes. Then I have Mr Van Dijk's question about the migrant churches. I just checked it out. After the summer, a letter from me and at least the Minister of Finance will come to your Chamber and the House of Representatives with the full follow-up of the recommendations from various national and international evaluations and investigations in the field of money laundering. We will ensure that this issue is also addressed. So that's where they're gonna dig in, as it's called. Mr Ganzevoort asked two questions. In the first, he specifically asked whether the citizens of BES have a lower or lower level of protection than the inhabitants of the Netherlands. I will take BZK up with which of us will inform the Chambers about the level of protection in the BES islands at all. There will be a JenV policy agenda anyway, and I will take it with me. I will also bring it to the attention of the BZK colleague. That will be this autumn at the latest. Then there was another question about the Caribbean. How is the interaction with the countries there? There is a shared sense of urgency in tackling undermining. When does the Kingdom come into view with their guarantee function? In the margins of the Justiceal Vierpartijen Consultation next week between the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten will be discussed with several partners. I would go there myself, but that is not going to happen because of the crisis approach to asylum. The consultation will take place and we are still looking for the way in which that can be done. We will recalibrate the urgency of this subject there too. The desire and urgency of the Caribbean countries to work on this with the Netherlands is also very great. I have seen this in many contacts over the past few months. This applies not only to the security of the Kingdom but also to relations with Latin America. There is also a great deal to be said about the route and what is happening in those countries. In order to make cooperation concrete, we also have real partnerships such as the Detectives Collaboration Team and other elements. The specific guarantee function is for BZK, but I will also try to get as many of these elements back in my policy agenda as possible. Then I have the question of 50PLUS about when the letter on the PEPs was sent. That was May 30th. So it was indeed the text of a few weeks ago. Then all I have is Mr Otten's motion. He will not be surprised that I dissuade this motion because he is asking for the immediate termination of the relationship with the national attorney: "calls on the government to end its cooperation with state attorney Pels Rijcken, taking into account the orderly conclusion of the current cases'. Well, I said it right, but I'm still dissuading the motion. I advise against this because we have instructed the committee to look at how we deal with various forms that are possible for high-quality legal assistance. However, we have already had this discussion in detail. I don't think I'll surprise Mr. Otten with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u394	For the record, that is the motion with the letter Q. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u395	This has been going on for a long time. We had an oral discussion on this with the Minister in February or something like that. If that stays down, there will be a committee and this story will develop. But do I understand well from the Minister's answer that that committee can also advise to stop this country's attorney altogether, to take someone else or to organise it differently? What are the possible outcomes of the committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u396	I'll make sure the assignment comes to the Chamber one more time. The point is that the committee advises us on the future of the country's legal profession, not specifically about a law firm, but about the country's legal profession. How should the State deal with it, what are the different scenarios and what are the advantages and disadvantages thereof? Then we'll know how to proceed with that. We need the advice to properly fill that out. That is what I said at our last meeting. If I were ahead of that, it would be very strange for me to have commissioned an independent committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u397	Okay, then I notice that that committee is going to study the institute of state's attorney an sich. That is interesting, but that is absolutely a reason for us to stick to this motion, because we want something fundamentally different, namely to end cooperation with this country's lawyer. It seems that this committee is not going to consider this as an option, so we would like to put our motion to the vote, also because Mr Omtzigt's motion almost made it to the House of Representatives and because the situation here is slightly different. We will maintain the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u398	Clear. Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u399	I hear the Minister say: we are going to have another debate on how the government feels about the report that NIOD has now issued. My first question is: is that a debate in the First Chamber? The second is that this debate is not about my questions concerning Colijn. I would then like to hear from the Minister whether she is at least prepared to respond to that question in writing in one way or another, so that a discussion may take place as a result of the written reply. But the primary question is the first. The Minister says: hold it, because there will be another debate. Is that a debate with the First Chamber? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u400	I assume that will be primarily with the House of Representatives because it is offered there, but I do not think there is anything in the way of asking for the debate here too, in different places. When such a reaction to a fundamental part of our history comes, debates will take place. My request is that all these questions and the motions should be included, so that, in conjunction, in a period that has been looked at in this way... It is not appropriate for me as Minister of JenV to send a letter or to make statements about them. It could well be taken into account in response to these debates. I think it is also up to your Chamber, as in the House of Representatives, which debates you are organising and applying for, and whether you are asking us to come by and say a few things about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u401	Then there is the question that remains unanswered by the Minister: is she prepared to send a letter to the First Chamber on the question of Prime Minister Colijn and the questions I have? Because that is not something directly related to the subject the minister is referring to when it comes to the government that is going to respond to the NIOD report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u402	What I'll do is see who's best to respond to it in what way. It may eventually become a letter explaining where that process can land and whether it can be addressed in substance. Most likely that won't be from my ministry or from me. That's why I'm reluctant to make a commitment I can't deliver. But let's agree that I'll see where it can land, guide it there and see who sent a letter, perhaps comprehensively and otherwise with a process proposal for which it can be involved. I really understand what Mr Nicolaï is looking for, but he had such an extensive and fundamental argument that I think it deserves a fundamental debate. At least there is not at the moment, and I do not think that in the near future from my role, but we are going to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u403	Then I would like to thank the Minister of Justice and Security. I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u404	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the senators here tonight for the constructive, critical but clear way in which we have had this debate. It also makes me proud, proud of the fact that we are Dutch. It makes me modestly proud, because I also see that we have to learn from practice and that trust requires something that we have to work on every day. Mr. Chairman. I heard the following idea: "We see a Minister of Security and we see a Minister of Legal Protection. Both are in one department. They talk with one mouth, but they lay different accents." A sharp analysis. But let me point out that there is also a former leader here who knows what organized crime in a municipality, for example Velsen-IJmuiden, has meant and done. That is why, at the time, I took the initiative to work together with the Tax Administration and with the Public Prosecutor's Office to make a move towards organised crime, to make it clear that a port complex must work and that the industrial complex must remain healthy and vital for the future. With this knowledge and expertise, I always have this kind of discussion when we talk about the democratic rule of law. I have seen that undermining my colleague is about this; I am not going over it in terms of portfolio before the democratic rule of law is nippling. You've got to deal with it. You gotta have a good eye for that. Then it's not just good words. Then it's up to me. My baptism tells me what's necessary about that. Many speakers have said certain things which I would like to mention very briefly before I go into the various motions. The normative side next to the practical approach. It is absolutely true that we need to be aware of this, of the rule of law, of the fact that this is a basis, that we need to maintain it and that it needs to be patronized. On the one hand, we can be big with it, if I may call it an old-fashioned Frisian custom and expression, but at the same time we must constantly pay attention to it and work on it. Thank you for what you said about the inequality of the rule of law. You've also given me an order for the future: narrow it down, make it clear. And I know that you will follow me to any gate where I may arrive. Beautiful was the emotion I heard. It's not just a matter of the head, it's also a matter of the heart. I share that with you, and I must always return it to the reality of today. Ethics, justice, the rule of law. On May 31st I had great respect for the speech. Hans Goedkoop was cited, about good and evil, and that there is also a moral compass that we must have in our souls when we look at something, the greater good. I also thank those who asked: what did you learn in Italy? What did you pick up there? That is a clear question. I deliberately travelled to Vught in the early days of my office. I've been talking to the local drivers, and I've been to the penitentiary facility, of course. There are different regimes there, a lot of regimes, and a home of custody. But I was also in the ebi, the extra-security facility. I wanted to learn from that. I wanted to see it with my own eyes: how are prisoners housed there? We are talking about serious, organised crime; let us be clear about that. That was also the reason why I cleared my agenda to look: and how did the Italians organize it? On the one hand it was explained to me on paper, but I also wanted to see it with my own eyes. I also said: I must not only use my own reference, I must also have it larded from a frame, from a distance, by the WODC, if I place the Italian model next to the Dutch model. Of course, I can tell you that our visitation scheme in the Ebi is stricter than that of the Italians. But that's not what we're here for. Taking away someone's freedom is the hardest tool you're committed to as a state. You have to be careful in that. And then legal principles come back around the corner. But at the same time, it's about people who deserve it. The judge then made a ruling, and then you have to put them well behind lock and key. It may be humane, but it must also be clear. In Italy, as my colleague Yeşilgöz pointed out, I saw how important it is to make it possible to prevent the links with organised crime, so I am talking about criminal acts in detention. You can expect me and us to make a real commitment to that. My concern was also an attorney. I'm not going to say "lawyers" who are committed to continuing that continued criminal activity in detention. I have also asked the Italians about their experiences on this point, but I am also raising my light further. I have become clearer from the Justice Council, from the NSA and from all kinds of groups: go to Sweden, go to the United Kingdom, because there too you can learn a lot about the proper handling of matters. The Italians are struggling with the same thing as the Netherlands. I learned those lessons in Italy, too. I've been working on the Ebi regime. At the same time, I dealt with the lawyers and how they can be abused by organised crime, a concern not only for me, as Minister for Legal Protection, but also for the NSA. I conducted the discussion with the lawyers in Italy in the presence of the NSA, precisely because I want to learn from this and allow it to land in the Netherlands. You just heard my reasons. Mr. Chairman, may I comment on the various motions and express my appreciation? If you agree to that, I will only mention the alphabetic letter. I'll start the motion with letter N, filed by the PVV. I am going to discourage that motion, arguing that it respects the rule of law, which is fundamental to European cooperation. A well-functioning Union falls or stands for mutual trust between Member States. Respect for the rule of law in all Member States is essential for such mutual trust. As the Netherlands, we must remain focused on this, but we must also be able to appeal to each other. In the European Union, we have the annual rule of law dialogue, where the Netherlands is also accountable on the basis of the European Commission's annual report on the rule of law. I can talk about this further, but I am quite clear: I advise against the motion with letter N. The motion with letter O I'm also going to dissuade. The current initiative proposal in the Lower House for the introduction of a corrective referendum expressly excludes the adoption of treaties of referendability. This is also the result of an amendment tabled by the Member of Parliament, Mr Sneller. The argument for this was, very briefly, that this would harm the international negotiating position of the Netherlands. That amendment and the amended proposal were adopted in both Chambers and is now before the House of Representatives for second reading. I do not think it is reasonable to return to that position now. Then I come to the motion with letter P, tabled by Member Baay-Timmerman c.s. This motion concerns the deployment of retired judges. In fact, I have already taken that up in my reply. You have also heard me say that I am going to look at this in consultation with the courts. That's what I promised in my first term. I shall leave this motion to the House's discretion. Then we come to the motion with letter V, filed by Member Talsma. The rule of law is better served by high-quality legislation. I consider the motion with letter V to support policy. I also promised you that I would come up with that biennial state of legislative quality. The aim is to address all the signals and reports mentioned in the motion. This state of legislative quality is provided for in 2023, as I promised you. For the next period, that will be about a year from now, as the motion states. Afterwards, the idea is to do this in principle every two years. It is important to be able to build up some content, to gain experience and also to address properly what we do or have done with signals. We shouldn't be fleeting. The motion with letter V (35925-VI) I give judgment Chamber. Then I come to the motion with letter W (35925-VI). This concerns at least eligibility requirements for representativeness. I did not go into that in my first term; first I wanted to have the facts in a row. This was particularly true of those interest groups with an ideal aim: what is the status of representativeness? I say this in the direction of Senator Van Dijk. It has been found that what you are asking for is regulated in Article 3:305a BW. It concerns the ability of interest groups, such as foundations, to initiate collective actions on behalf of a group of stakeholders. That provision already contains eligibility requirements for a legal person to start a collective action. This also applies to the setting up of ideal actions. That is the subject of a strict review by the judge. The requirements have recently been tightened with the introduction of the Mass Damage Resolution Act in collective action, the WAMCA, as of 1 January 2020. It is necessary, inter alia, that the organisation should be representative of its constituents and that these are interests for which it wishes to assert its statutes. The judge will examine that representativeness in detail. The same applies to ideal actions. In short, we have good and recent rules on representativeness and receptiveness of ideal organisations that set up collective actions. There has now been no need to impose further requirements. I therefore reject the motion with this argument. Then I am at the motion with letter X (35925-VI). I can be brief, otherwise I'm going to repeat myself. This motion I give judgment Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, I have dealt with all the motions concerning my portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u405	That puts you at the end of your second term, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u406	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u407	Then thank you. Mr. Janssen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u408	It is true that all the motions have been dealt with, but I do not think that all the questions have yet been answered. In my view, the Minister would come back in second place to a question I asked about the 1,500 sepot cases. Did the victims of these cases have to read that out of the newspaper, or was there also a role for the victims in that careful consultation and communication, which the Minister said had taken place beforehand? The Minister referred to Article 12 and said that they could still apply for prosecution at the court, but then they should know that their case has been dismissed. So my question is: has that been before the press release, or has it been after that? Did they have to read it from the paper and then they were informed that it was about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u409	Mr. Chairman. This is an action, an act, from the D.A.'s office. I am also going to look at how the Council of Justice is involved in this. Before I speak for my turn, I'm gonna go get that information. I want to give you a factual answer. I'm going to inform you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u410	Perhaps the Minister would also like to comment on the following point. He himself indicated that consultations had taken place with him as Minister for Legal Protection, also on behalf of the Minister of Justice. Has any consideration been given to how communication with the victims should be dealt with? So if the Minister wishes to include that in his written response, then very much so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u411	In that conversation, the Public Prosecutor informed me that the selection of cases eligible for dismissal sought to take into account as much as possible individual persons involved. As has been pointed out, these are victims, but it is also a broader issue of society's interests. These are police court cases which have all been assessed individually. Lighter cases such as insult, a traffic case and possession of hemp are dismissed. In many cases there are no victims involved, but I am going to ask you very carefully. Where victims suffer damage, they look at a possible solution, e.g. the possibility of paying compensation for the damage. The issues at stake must therefore be dealt with as such. I've also heard the idea of recovery law. I'll take your questions and your comments along with me in your direction, but I'm going back to the D.A. and the court to be able to give you precise information, Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u412	I hear the Minister say that it was not all victims because there could also be insults and so on. That is a very limited interpretation of the term "victim." Words can make people feel extremely victimized. Where there is a case, I assume that there is a report somewhere and that someone can also be identified as a victim somewhere, not in the sense of physical injury alone, which is indeed a victim. I am not concerned with the content selection. I didn't ask about that. It's just about how people have dealt with them. Have their interests been taken into account in advance in the communication weighings? How were they informed? Was that before or afterwards and did they have to read it in the newspaper first? I await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u413	Mr Janssen's question is very clear. I will answer both questions in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u414	Thank you, Minister. Then I look at the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u415	Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse raised a label for journalists. I just brought in the report of the meeting with journalists and experts here in your Chamber. They say that if there were a definition, it would have to come from the sector itself. Actually, I agree. However, there are a number of places where criteria for journalists have been mentioned or formulated. For example, there is an exception for journalists and publicists in the Code of Criminal Procedure for the right to source protection in criminal matters and the Dutch Association of Journalists applies criteria under which they may or may not provide a person with a press card. Earlier in my contribution, I mentioned self-regulation in the sector, including journalistic ethical codes. I therefore see no reason for a label or to define the title of journalism. It's up to the sector to decide. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u416	My question was not that the government should do so, but that self-regulation could be done by the industry itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u417	That was an explanation, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u418	If this is what the sector needs, then the sector itself will come up with it. We agree. Then the female reporters and reports. Mrs Nanninga asked me about the investigations and reports concerning female journalists. I can tell Mrs Nanninga that this is reflected, for example, in the report by Media Freedom Rapid Response on press security in the Netherlands which has recently appeared. In the recent report of this organisation, the recommendation is to gain more insight into the insecurity experienced by female journalists, especially online. A Council of Europe recommendation specifically highlights the security of women journalists. They are based on figures from a number of partner organisations such as UNESCO. Today, conclusions of the EU Council on the protection and security of journalists and other media professionals have been adopted. Women journalists are also mentioned. The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe has prepared a resource guide for the online security of women journalists. Summarizing: I hear the journalists saying it, but figures and reports also support this problem. I do agree with Mrs Nanninga that we need to look at this thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u419	The Secretary of State indeed says "say to experience." Of course, it always remains difficult to measure whether something is a swearing off. People who call other people names online always use something that someone has glasses, is fat, has red hair or is a woman. I am pleased with the attention given to this, but my question is indeed: the Secretary of State has already said that to take this into account and not to take it entirely into account, because then you will have a kind of victim culture here that I do not think is appropriate for women journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u420	I agree with Mrs Nanninga. I think we need to look at it thoroughly, but we need to take into account that if we do, we can act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u421	I'm gonna walk to the mike anyway, even though I'm not a woman. Speaking of which, I see that tonight's Culture Council has published a shocking survey on practices that cannot be tolerated. I also read at the NPO, where presenters have behaved wretchedly. It all turns out to be a little worse than we thought at first. I assume the Secretary of State is familiar with this report. What is she going to do to deal with this in the short term is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u422	I got this report today. There are recommendations in it and I take them very seriously. As you know, both De Vandelbearer and The Voice were my baptism of fire. There are conversations with media companies. There are discussions with experts, round tables. This report also shows how incredibly important and incredibly big this problem is and how deeply rooted this problem is in our society. This culture change does not take place in one day, in one week or in a month. In the coming period we will have to pay a great deal of attention to this and talk to each other about it. We should not cramp, especially engage in conversations and stimulate conversations. As a supervisor, you should also be an example and really show it when it's wrong and what you can and can't do, at least what you shouldn't do. Bystanders should also be encouraged to engage and discuss as much as possible. And not just talking. It also contains clear recommendations. I still have to study the report. There's gonna be a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u423	I suggest we leave it at that, because the MPs don't have the report either. So I think that's enough. Can you return to your response on the second term of office or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u424	No, I have two more questions. Mr Nicolaï asked me how I weigh the importance of journalism and the protection of personal data in relation to the disclosure of archive documents. I understand that the period of 100 years may seem long, but this is the way to handle carefully the protection of personal data that the law imposes on the government. We don't have to deal with that lightly. The question of a research proposal to researchers and research journalists who still want to see these documents is a practical solution. Mr Nicolaï also stated in his second term that it is not so much the law that determines what may be made public or not, but that the caregiver, in this case a public authority, can weigh that. He referred to Article 15 of the Archive Act. It is true that that authority lies with the caretaker in question for the archive document. That is how it is laid down in Article 15. And so the disclosure also lies with that explicit caregiver. She's not in all cases with me. It's about people. It's about family members. I think we really need to deal with that very carefully. Archive pieces are largely public. Some of the documents aren't public. For those pieces, there's just a plan to be made, a research plan. Then it becomes accessible again. It is therefore not the case that archive documents are not accessible. Only, there has to be a plan for that. It's about people and about personal data. I think we should deal with this very carefully. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u425	I am pleased that the Secretary of State has indeed seen how it is regulated in Article 15 of the Archive Act. It is said that it has to be for 100 years anyway. That period of 100 years is the actual limit. The Archive Act states the limit of 75 years. That 75-year limit is also a maximum limit, and it should only be applied if the caregiver believes that there are grounds for not guaranteeing public access. So the starting point in that law is: also public access, and if there are interests that argue against that public access, then that should actually only be done for a maximum of 75 years. At 75 years we've been around. But my question to the Secretary of State is the following. To what extent do these personal interests still weigh when it comes to such pieces from so long ago? I still haven't received an answer to that question. The Secretary of State says, yes, that's the point. But it's the weighing that matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u426	The weighing of... Let me put it this way. There's gonna be an investigation request. It looks at who lives there and which doesn't. You are now asking me for a very technical and very detailed answer. I can say I'll get back to you. I understand the urgency, or at least the tone of urgency in Mr. Nicolaï's voice. But on the other hand, the documents are accessible. And I don't hear any signals from researchers who say they're bothered by that. Perhaps Mr Nicolaï would like to know how the process of weighing that up is taking place. I can send him that list by letter; that does not seem to me to be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u427	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u428	I'm not asking for a list, but I'm asking how the Secretary of State himself looks at it. That's one. And my second point is this. The same applies in fact to the Central Archives of Special Law, which dealt with matters which, I shall say, were discussed in World War II. There are still a lot of people with a history of murdered relatives and so on. They would like to take note of that. That too is a question of weighting. I've done that kind of research myself. You will notice that the National Archives simply say: yes, those are the rules. And then when you ask what weighting is behind it, there is actually no response to it at all. I would actually like to ask the Secretary of State the following. This is an archive and I was also talking about that other archive, which is about Indonesia's past and how we dealt with it. Can the Secretary of State please once again consider how that balance should be made today with regard to the interests of anyone else? These may be individuals, they may be journalists who want to take note of what is in those archives. In addition, the law is primarily based on public access. There must be serious arguments not to guarantee that openness. So I'd like to get a letter from the Secretary of State about that weighting sometime, because that really does play out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u429	Finally, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u430	I am still convinced that research is possible and that the archives are accessible. With a research plan there is in any case the possibility to obtain archive documents. I understand that Mr Nicolaï would very much like to know the balance, the weighting, so how is it determined for which documents the research plan is needed. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u431	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u432	I have one more question to answer. We're almost done. Mr Recourt asked me during his interruption why we in the Netherlands do not just start with a levy. He mentioned Funda as an example. Once again, I understand Mr Recourt's concerns about local media. I'm really working on that, at least, I've chosen other instruments. I just want to strengthen local journalism directly and not through all kinds of other means. That was my choice. That was not only my choice, but was also included in the coalition agreement. I think it is the most and fastest effective way to support local journalism in this way. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u433	Thank you, Secretary of State. It sounds remorseful in your voice. That's a good sign, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-21-eerstekamer-7.u434	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Then we have come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, the Ministers, the Secretary of State and the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
