ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the reply and rejoinder of the Court of Justice, it is a mouthful of the Amendment to the Basic Registration Act concerning the introduction of a central facility to support the colleges of mayors and aldermen in the examination of whether a person resident in the Basic Registration Persons should be registered at an address in the municipality and the accuracy of the information concerning the address of a resident in the Basic Registration Persons, 35772. Again, it's the reply and rejoinder, so it's just the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u2	As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Rajkowski. It had seven minutes in the first period, i.e. one third in the second period. So that's 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u3	Haha! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The BRP. In the first period, we discussed in detail the importance of the accuracy of data. In the letter of 25 March we also see that coming back. The BRP is the source for the time when voting cards are to be sent or supplements are to be paid. However, it is also necessary for organisations dealing with retirement provision that the data in the BRP should be correct. Thank you to the Secretary of State, because in the letter of 25 March it says that they are the amendment to item No. 19, an amendment, among other things, from my hand, wants to accept. I think that's a formal matter for the public, so I'm not going to say anything about it now. I'll wait the second term for that. The letter of 25 March also shows that it is good that we have had a suspension. I think it contains a lot of information about discussions we have had, about uncertainties and doubts. The VVD is likely to agree with the proposal. Over the past few weeks, we have used it to explore how, for example, Utrecht has picked up the National Approach Address Quality. On the contrary, we see very good opportunities for municipalities to look not only at fraud detection, but also at debt relief. That's a much more positive approach. It is ultimately in the interests of all of us that the BRP is correct. That was him, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u4	Very well, and thank you for your conciseness. Then Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u5	You can say so many times that it was born for service, but if you know it was born in the womb of the Ministerial Commission Approach Fraud, then you know it isn't. 'Cause what was born there? The supplemental scandal. There it was born that all of the human data available in the government are mainly reworked into profiles. Those profiles are shared and we know that there has been discrimination. We also know that this is not the truth. Because we had to read in the newspaper on Monday that the Tax Administration knew that for a long time, and that the Ministry knew that for a long time, but has not reported it yet. The Secretary of State has taken the time to say: I'm going to build in some security safeguards in a few areas. But that didn't convince me. For example, she sends along a PIA, a privacy impact assessment, in which she says: what is now processed about profiles and data is not discriminatory. At the same time, the management measures state that the substantive part of the processor's agreement, which the PIA is about, is no longer up-to-date. So they were investigating a user agreement, which would not discriminate, but which was no longer up-to-date. So you have a PIA that's not about what they were doing. So you have a privacy impact analysis that isn't about what they were doing. We've been asking how much address enhancement this, sending around in that government of all those profiles, phenomena and descriptions, is gonna get us? How many addresses is that going to improve? Good address quality is certainly important, but the problem is not very big, because 93% of the addresses in the Netherlands are in good order. It is said that it is effective and that the LAA, the National Approach Address Quality, really has to be in the law, but the letter states in a footnote on page 5: "It is not kept track of how many of these regular returns are actually investigated by municipalities and lead to address quality." So we've created a whole tracking device, which is now going to tell municipalities: you need to check if Mr. Bosma really lives at that address. For example, if your child has moved back home, you will be in a profile, but we do not know if that is a wrong address at all. We don't know if municipalities are doing anything about it. But it costs millions a year and the data of people who don't even know their data is being shared fly over the Internet. So the SP isn't convinced. This is not the right path. This is shooting a cannon on a mosquito. This is legislation of the previous government and not of the government that we want now and that applies the human measure. I've got two more motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u6	But first, a question from Mrs Rajkowski.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u7	The scare images that Mrs Leijten mentions, we all want to avoid here. Sometimes I am looking for something, even when I look at what the Secretary of State has already promised about what we all want in the Chamber and in the light of the amendments and motions before us. There's been years of experience. So I am still looking for the guarantees that Mrs Leijten is actually talking about. Mrs Leijten also spoke just now about data flying over the Internet. Can you give an example of that? Are those more like ideas you're afraid of? Or did this happen honestly? 'Cause I'd like to know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u8	Did you read Trouw from last Monday?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u9	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u10	Well, I'd like to refer you to that. The data center of the Tax Administration has written manuals that say that you have to search mainly for background and origin; that comes in queries; that's turning out. It'll be in profiles. This is shared with other governments. That's what it says here: "There must be a user agreement to share that well." We've passed motions, co-signed by the VVD, to clean up all the contaminated data that's been shared from the Tax Department's blacklist. But this is where the data is processed. Yesterday, I proposed a motion to my party; I did not do it myself, because I then had a legal treatment to stop risk profiling, unless we are sure that it is right. That motion is not recommended, and here we even put something about it in the law. I have tried with an amendment to put a horizon clause in it: then we will pass the law for two years, and we will use those two years to find out. Not even an evaluation has been carried out! I think that such an extremely thin ice is a muddle in which we are standing, that I really cannot take care of it. The guarantees promised by the Secretary of State in an AMvB and in a ministerial arrangement, we have no idea. We have no influence on this ministerial arrangement, and it is not usually possible to integrate an AMvB. So it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u11	Fine. Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u12	When I hear Mrs Leijten's speech, I conclude that it does not really matter what we agree on in this debate, which motions or amendments we vote for or do not vote for. Because the SP is going to vote against it anyway. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u13	We will vote against the law, yes, because I am not convinced that this National Approach Address quality is proportionate. Can't you do it in another way, where you process less data and share it with third parties? I am therefore not convinced that the LAA is necessary in its right of existence. I do not think there has been a debate on this either. It has existed since 2014 without it ever been reported to us and without it being in the law. The Personal Data Authority is critical. We also received a letter from data experts and civil rights experts who say, "Don't do this." We've seen Syri. We've seen the supplemental scandal. When it comes to government and data processing, I would say: take a step back rather than put something in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u14	Fine. Your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u15	The motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Country Approach Address Quality has never been evaluated;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an independent evaluation of this approach and to inform the Court of Justice about it for the examination of the budget of the Interior in autumn 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35772-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u16	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the summer of 2014, the Ministerial Committee on Fraud Approach was established, where a common strategy was developed on inter alia "data exchange and file link" and "strengthening intelligence position and risk profiles";]] [[also noted that the Ministerial Committee's approach to fraud has resulted in different legal pathways and developed different pilots which later proved that data processing, acquisition and/or sharing was unlawful;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before the summer of a. which laws, b. which pilots and c. which other alternatives to data acquisition, processing and sharing have arisen in this ministerial committee on fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35772-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u17	I had prepared this motion in February, so I can inform it for the budget too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you. Then Mrs Dekker from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the answers given by the Secretary of State and her comprehensive letter of 25 March. In that letter it acknowledges that the history of this law is questionable, but it also takes measures to improve the law. D66 was also critical of the law in the first term, but afterwards I am glad that we have made this split. This has allowed us to speak with a number of municipalities, experts and VNG. We understand that they also have many positive comments on the functioning of this law. The input of these conversations has fed us and contributed to new insights. However, the D66 Group still has a few concerns. On that basis, we have a number of proposals. Firstly, we have also tabled an amendment banning the use of discriminatory selection criteria in risk profiles. The implementation of the National Approach Address Quality should never lead to discriminatory selection of persons. In this context, the distinction is unjustified on the basis of the data nationality, place of birth or all derivatives thereof. I have tabled this amendment on behalf of Mrs Leijten van de SP and Mrs Inge van Dijk of the CDA, and I am going to add Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks. Then I have three motions, all of which are also tabled on behalf of Mr Ceder. One motion replaces my amendment. I'd like to move that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u20	Is that the amendment to item No. 22?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u21	No, that's new. It is a question of the amendment to item No. 18, I think. That's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u22	The Dekker-Abdulaziz amendment (Doc. 18) shall be repealed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u23	I would like to replace that with a motion, which provides for feedback to the citizen when an investigation of address data has taken place. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current proposal for the amendment does not explicitly lay down the citizens' right to information;]] [[Whereas citizens have the right to know the grounds on which the address inquiry was conducted, the follow-up actions linked thereto and the investigation has been completed;]] [[invites the government to engage with the municipalities and to examine the implementation costs for the B and W colleges if they actively inform citizens about the LAA signal and its substantive basis, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35772-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. We think privacy is a very important asset. We are also pleased to see PIAs being carried out every now and then. That is why we would like to add a PIA to the evaluation which, if it is right, will take place in three years' time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current legislative amendment proposal may have an impact on citizens' privacy;]] [[Whereas, by means of the amendment tabled by Mr Van Baarle of DENK, the evaluation period is earlier, i.e. from five to three years;]] [[calls on the Government to make a privacy impact assessment part of the evaluation, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35772-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u25	Then there is the final motion on the agreements with signal suppliers, because the Secretary of State wrote in her letter that she would make agreements and a covenant with signal suppliers, so that they would also have to provide insight into the signals and risk profiles. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Personal Data Authority supervises the use and processing of personal data;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State is still in talks with the signal providers on a common standard for the processing and deployment of risk profiles and will conclude a covenant there;]] [[calls on the Government to conclude the covenant with signal providers before the law enters into force and to inform the Court thereof;]] [[Calls on the Government to have an overall overview of the risk profiles, including those of the signal providers, independently reviewed, for example by the Personal Data Authority, before the law enters into force, and to inform the Court thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to send an annual overview of the risk profiles, including those of the signal providers, to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dekker-Abdulaziz and Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35772-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with two questions, first of all about the financial coverage of the address inquiry and the preliminary investigation under this law. I would like to receive a commitment from the Secretary of State that the cost aspect will be taken into account in the execution test. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if this is possible. The last question concerns the record of data in research. We know that this has been around for a long time, but we are afraid that due to lack of capacity, signals may end up in research data, which may mean that people no longer have access to other public services. How will the Secretary of State deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz says that things have improved and that she is therefore more positive. You ask whether the implementation test will include the financial aspect. Do you think it is the right way of legislation to take the implementation test only if we have to vote in favour of the law? That is not what the Bosman Committee meant by its advice that there should be execution tests. That's got to happen before we adopt laws, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u28	In my view, there is also an introduction test, which takes place before we adopt laws or during the legislative process. I think I recall that the Secretary of State has promised to take an introduction test, because we have also written in the coalition agreement that it will take place. I can imagine you taking the execution test after the law came into force, because then you can see how it turned out. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u29	For example, the execution test the Tax Administration works with does not work in the Tax Plan. You're just getting a proposal from the government. There is then a performance test of the Tax Administration, which says whether or not it can be done. It has one flag, two flags or a red flag. Now those tests are going to be done when we already have to vote. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u30	Mrs Leijten is asking me a little bit about this. I haven't seen so many execution tests. At the same time, of course, this has existed since 2014. So I can imagine we're going to do an execution test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Cedar of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a first deadline in which our group was critical. We were wondering, both in terms of proportionality and subsidiarity, what this law adds in its present form and whether it might not cause or cause additional suffering to vulnerable people. We have had a strong debate on this. A number of amendments have been tabled by me. Before I got here, you've heard my name before, because I'm under a number of motions. I think it is very important to consider this legislative proposal in the light of the proposals and the amendments that have been made. We are really worried, especially about the most vulnerable. I referred in the first period to the fact that I am very concerned about the intended purpose. What to do if someone needs help, the municipality makes a house call and then it turns out that there is a chance that the person doesn't get that help? What's that? The purpose of the law then does not correspond to reality. That's how vulnerable citizens get caught up in the rain. I'd really like to avoid that. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore curious to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to the motions and amendments that have been tabled, because I want to weigh this up properly. For us, this really is a law that we weigh heavily, precisely for these reasons. In addition to the other motions that have already been tabled, I have two motions myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a notification is made using signals from the Ministry, implementing organisations and third parties;]] [[Whereas the government indicates that according to the Klaver c.s. motion, risk profiles using nationality, ethnicity or place of birth will not be used, but only for signals developed by the Ministry itself;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that only signals from third parties and implementing organisations are used if it can be excluded that these signals are based on risk profiles that distinguish between ethnicity, nationality, place of birth or otherwise have discriminatory effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ceder and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35772-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u33	Then I have a motion to help someone who is discovered that he may not fully comply with the rules. The quality of assistance varies from one municipality to another. I hope that this motion will be considered in that light. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that improving the quality of the address may, inter alia, contribute to identifying, preventing and combating social problems;]] [[Whereas the evaluation shows that, among other things, the municipality of Utrecht has used the Rural Approach Address quality to combat social problems and indicates that there can be improvement in the capacity and public-wide follow-up of signals;]] [[Whereas the linking of improving address quality and combating social problems will not be taken for granted by every municipality;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the VNG, to draw up a further instruction to ensure that in each municipality the improvement of address quality goes hand in hand with the meaningful identification, prevention, fight against and feedback of social problems and the possible need to provide a letter address, and to consider with the VNG what is necessary for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ceder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35772-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u34	Mr. Chairman. I await the Secretary of State's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you very much. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Bouchallichh of the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Like several parties, our group was quite critical in the debate. I am therefore pleased with all the efforts made by all the Members of the House, because for us too, it is very important how the motions and amendments will be dealt with and what will be the outcome of the vote at the end. I have a number of supplementary questions relating to the letter that has been sent. The first question concerns the provision of information to third parties. It is indicated that this information is provided to organisations designated as organisations carrying out activities of major social interest. In my first term, I have already asked to what extent it is assessed when these organisations serve this interest. It will enable us to assess whether this could and should be the case in our view. I also have a question about the provision of information by the municipalities themselves. I understand that this is an independent competence of the municipalities, but looking at the debate we have had before, we have quite some concerns about that too. To what extent is it possible to check from the Ministry whether certain safeguards have been properly mapped out, in order to prevent us from having to deal with problems in implementation at some point, taking into account the division of roles that is at issue? Finally, Mr President, I have one more question on a subject which I raised and which is not included in the letter. That was about the letter addresses of people who are homeless and/or homeless. Administrative activities are often complicated for this group of people. Could the Secretary of State explain why the cabinet believes that this should also be covered by the present bill? Then I'm gonna leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u37	Very good. I'm gonna suspend until 3:25 and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u38	I call Mrs Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u39	I just made a mistake. I had the amendment in part No. But I wanted the amendment to item No. 18 withdrawn, but I wanted the amendment to item No. 18 withdrawn. 13 and the amendment to No. 18... put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u40	Yes. That is what has been established.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u41	Mr. Chairman. I'll do it like this. I understand that the appreciation of the amendments that I had already appreciated in the letter must be expressed here once again. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u43	So I'm about to do that, but I'd like to start with a short introduction. Then I would like to answer the questions and go through the motions and amendments. I'll try to be short. Indeed, we spoke earlier, two months ago, about this bill. I have seen that your Chamber was critical of this bill and at the same time constructive. I have also noticed this in the many motions and amendments you have tabled to strengthen the legislative proposal. That has helped, as far as I am concerned. Of course, I'm about to say more about the appreciation. It is right that you were critical, because it is about processing personal data and risk profiles. It is then always important to ensure the right safeguards, proportionality, human measure and the effective introduction of the right safeguards to do so. At the same time, of course, we are talking about the national address register, the BRP. It is incredibly important that that address register is also good, because many people have a lot of use and benefit from being properly registered in it. I will go on to answer a number of questions. At first I answer a question from Mrs Dekker. She asked whether the costs of the LAA, this law, for municipalities are included in the execution test. That's what we're gonna do. We have already indicated the cost of the research carried out by the VNG. We will also continue to talk to them to see how much is needed for this. We have a budget for this trajectory, improving the BRP and quality measures. The payment as it is now, namely a payment of €70 per house visit, will in any case remain. But we are going to support the municipalities because of the importance we attach to this work. Mrs Dekker's second question was about the notes in the study. Last time we discussed that if a municipality investigates the accuracy of an address, it will check it, make an administrative note in the system. This does not happen automatically, but only when the municipality has chosen to start the actual investigation. It is also not a decision under the General Administrative Law Act and has no legal effect. It is particularly important that municipalities complete the investigation quickly. That is why we have set deadlines for this. The note is visible. That is good in itself, because then organisations can see that an investigation is taking place, but for example UWV and Tax Administration have indicated that they will deal with this note no further than simply ensuring that people are eligible for what they are entitled to, except when they see reason to do further work for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u44	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answer. UWV and IRS have indicated that they're not doing anything with that note. Does the Secretary of State want to check whether other organisations are dealing with it the same way? We have heard from people that sometimes this is not the case and that, for example, people can no longer get a licence, which would be serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u45	That would certainly be serious. I have already indicated that I am in any case going to talk to the organisations that submit data in the context of risk profiles. In the covenant I conclude with them, I will also make arrangements with them. Then it is also clear what it means when such an investigation takes place and that it should not lead to, for example, the failure to issue a driving licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u47	Then I turn to the questions asked by Mrs Bouchallichh van GroenLinks. To what extent is third parties assessed whether a third party actually serves the social interest? So when can an organization have access to the BRP's data? That requires two steps. In the first instance, there must be an AMvB; this can only be regulated at AMvB and indeed there must be a significant social interest. So it's about organizations that perform public tasks. They do not always have to be an administrative body, but they actually have to carry out a public task. The AMvB always requests advice from the Dutch Data Protection Authority and the Council of State, so they must also give an opinion. Only then can we give them access to the BRP. Whether they will also participate in the LAA's system, so ensuring that address data can also be improved and indicated, should be regulated separately in the ministerial regime. This will also be the subject of the opinion of the Personal Data Authority before they can participate. The designation of other parties, i.e. third parties, for supervision, I will only do so if I actually see that it has added value to this law. At present, therefore, we do not have an organisation whose intention is to do so. Then there was a question about municipalities that can also provide data to third parties, or that happens properly. As part of the LAA, we also have working instructions that we give to municipalities. Of course, it is the responsibility of the municipality itself to deal with this in a good way. But we will give them the way that works and when we think it is wise to do so. The third question you had was about homeless people and homeless people. Why are we making them subject to this bill? The point is that it is of course also important for them to be registered in the right place, because often when someone is temporarily registered, for example at a letter address, it is also important that it is restored as soon as someone gets a permanent place to live and stay. And it is also important to check whether that address is used properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u48	Like the Secretary of State, I also support the importance of having an address, especially for these groups. My concern is more that certain groups can become more quickly entangled in the administrative web of measures, requests and so on. I do not yet hear how it is specifically ensured for these groups that this is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u49	These groups can get an address. That is settled in the arrangement we have made for that. Such an address may also be subject to investigation, or at least it will be examined whether the person should still be registered at that address. Then, of course, we will make sure that we just get in touch with the municipality and that it does so in the right way. Because it is not intended to impose an additional administrative burden on those who are registered there. I would like to move on to the appreciation of the motions and the amendments. I do not know if you have a preference, Mr President; first there are motions or amendments. Then I'll start with the motions. The first, tabled by Mr Cedar of the Christian Union, if I have the right order, is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u50	No, the first was tabled by Mrs Leijten with Mr Ceder as number two, and that is the motion in part No. 26.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u51	Then I'll go there. In my administration, it didn't add up, with apologies. The Leijten/Ceder motion in part No. 26; independent evaluation is its scope. I'll get her handed over, thank you very much. This is a motion that is difficult to carry out right now. We have not yet begun to implement this law. Of course, we would very much like to ensure that it comes into force and then carry out an introduction test within a year. That is what we are actually going to do with the first evaluation. We also carry out an evaluation after three years, at the request of the group of DENK. So I wanted to dissuade this motion because I think it is now double up on what we have already proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u52	The LAA has been in existence since 2014, I would like to ask the Secretary of State. Then you can make an independent evaluation of the past few years. It can then be sent to the co-legislator, so that we can understand what has happened in the last eight years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u53	We've had an investigation done. We also discussed this in the debate we had in the first term. I do not think it is desirable to have another evaluation carried out now. However, I think it is important to provide the new law, with all the safeguards we want to add, with an introduction test and then to re-examine the need for changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u54	It's called "the evaluation," but the first sentence is that this is a report. The first sentence is: the National Approach Address Quality has proven itself to be an effective method over the past five years. Nowhere, but nowhere has anything been investigated. It's a report. It's not an evaluation. If the Secretary of State doesn't take the Chamber so seriously, I'm really worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u55	I do not really have much to add to what I have said about this. There's been work done, research done. We're going to do it again the moment we introduce this new law, with an introduction test. We are also seriously looking at the implementation of municipalities. That is why I would like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u56	Then the motion to part No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u57	Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 27. It invites the government to review all initiatives, laws and pilots resulting from the Ministerial Committee on Combating Fraud. That is a very big question, which is certainly not for me but for a very large part of the cabinet. It's a very broad question. I would actually ask Mrs Leijten to hold the motion. That gives me the opportunity to write a letter on this matter by first discussing it with the members of the cabinet and then coming back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u58	I think this is just asking for facts, facts that we as co-legislators can then weigh. If the Secretary of State says she's in favour of it but would like to discuss it and come back to it in a letter, I'd like to hold the motion. If the Secretary of State says she's willing to do the research, but that's too complicated for the summer, including for the budget, I'm prepared to take that out. But it's facts I'm asking for. The fact that we cannot have access to the documents of the Ministerial Commission because it is a ministerial sub-committee is, of course, true, but I ask for an overview to be made. That committee didn't last that long. Of course, decisions have just been made. I think that should be possible. So I'd like to know how the Secretary of State looks at that. Does she have a positive attitude to simply inform the Chamber as co-legislator? Then we can declare it ourselves politically or adopt it for notification. Or is she actually saying she doesn't see the point? Then I know a little what I'll say yes to when I hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u59	I understand the question you are asking very well. The only point is that I do not know what laws the Ministerial Commission has looked at. I know that at least there are legislative proposals from other departments, because we know that together we have also discussed laws from, for example, the Ministry of Finance. I'm sure I'd like to have that looked at. I hope to get back to that as soon as possible by means of a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u60	I would like to continue the motion, but I would ask the Secretary of State to look at it with an open eye, even when it comes to what happened on that file we also know about. So I don't want to get a letter later with ifs, buts, "can't" and the lid on it, but I want to read: this way we can shape it and then you have the information. I'm really hoping for the latter, but I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u61	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u62	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion (35772, No. 27). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u63	Fine. I am always willing to take a good look at this question and answer it carefully. I shall now turn to Mrs Dekker's and Mr Ceder's motion for a resolution on the conclusion of agreements with the signal providers. That's the motion in part No. 28. That motion calls for things that I think are very good, namely to make good agreements with the signal providers and to have them independently checked. I would therefore like to give the motion a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u64	Wait a minute. That's not the motion in part No. 28, I think. That's the motion in part No. 30.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u65	That's kind of annoying. I don't have my administration in order at all, I see. I'm going to the motion on the execution charges. That's what it's about. Excuse me. That motion is about ensuring that there are sufficient resources for the B and W colleges. I'd also like to give that motion a Chamber of Commons. That's the motion in part No. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u66	Yeah, that's the motion in part no. 28.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u67	Then I'll move on to the motion in part number. 29, by Mrs Dekker and Mr Ceder. It's about citizens' privacy and the privacy impact assessment. I intend to evaluate this bill. Then I'm going to see what the effects are like in practice. I can take a PIA with me. I would therefore like to give this motion a ruling Chamber. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 30. It is also Mrs Dekker's and Mr Ceder's. Then I'll come to the first thing I just said. Three things are being asked: before the law enters into force, agreements will be made on signal suppliers, independent testing and all risk profiles will be sent to the Chamber every year. I'd also like to give this motion judgment Chamber. I agree with what is being asked. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 31, by Mr Ceder and Mrs Kathmann. I just need to make sure I do the right admin here. That motion is about excluding signs of risk profiles. I certainly support this motion too. For the time being, of course, only public authorities participate in the LAA, but they should not use risk profiles in accordance with the Klaver motion. This motion will therefore be judged by Chamber. Then I'll go to the last motion, the one in part number. 32. That is Mr Ceder's motion. That is the motion calling for further instructions in consultation with the VNG and the municipality of Utrecht. I agree with this motion and I would like to give it a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u68	Fine. Then we've had the motions. Then we have three amendments to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u69	Yes, because I had written a letter to the Chamber in which I appreciated a number of amendments. We came to the conclusion that the numbering of Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz' motion was incorrect, but that has now been corrected. That means that the motion is going to indicate the numbers here in part no. 11 Judgment Room gets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u70	You mean amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u71	Sorry, amendment. The amendment in part No. 11 gets judgment room. The amendment in part No. 13 has been revoked. The amendment in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber, according to the letter. The same applies to Amendment No 2. 15 of the SP. The amendment in part No. 16 is not recommended. The amendment in part No. 17 gets judgment room. Then I shall continue with the amendments that are still open, including the amendment to item No. 19 by Mrs Rajkowski, Mr Ceder, Mrs Kathmann and Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz. The amendment introduces a pending procedure for the underlying AMvB into the legislative proposal. I would like to accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u72	Is there any objection to that? I see that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u73	Then we go to the Amendment No. 23 by Mr Van Baarle van DENK. That amendment lays down that the AMvB should lay down detailed rules on how to avoid discrimination as referred to in Article 2 of the General Equal Treatment Act. Unfortunately, I have to advise against this amendment. This is because it calls for a link to a law that does not apply to public organisations. The amendment tabled by the D66 Group deals with what is requested. I therefore regret to say that I do not recommend this amendment. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 24, also from the group of DENK, on the fact that only detailed rules on the LAA can be laid down at AMvB and not under ministerial regulation. That is not something provided for in this law. As far as I am concerned, this is not very convenient and desirable either. In fact, we want to have the possibility, with a ministerial regulation, of being able to carry out the same review, which is also carried out through the AP.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would therefore advise against this amendment. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 25. This amendment is by Mrs Dekker-Abdulaziz and concerns that risk profiles should not be based on nationality, place of birth or any derivative thereof. That amendment therefore excludes the processing of such data. It is clear, of course, that discrimination is prohibited. We don't want to. I would therefore like to leave this amendment to the House's discretion. I think I have had all the amendments with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u74	Then we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u75	With apologies for the confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u76	No, it was with us, too. Thank you very much. So much for this debate. On Tuesday we shall be voting on the law and the amendments. Mrs Dekker, we have had all the amendments. The amendment in part No. 25 replaces the amendment in part No. 22. It's become a bit of a lookout. Mrs. Dekker doesn't get it anymore either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'll get that. Thank you, by the way, to the Secretary of State for having at least received all my motions for resolutions, Chamber. I do have a question. I believe that a lot of motions are in line with the policy. That's how I heard it from the Secretary of State. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take over some of the motions she wants to make anyway? That concerns the motion in part No. 28, on feedback to the citizen, and the motion in part No. 29, about the PIA. That saves us a few more pages in the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u78	I can certainly do that. The motion in part No. 28 and the motion in part No. 29, you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u80	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u81	If the Secretary of State has taken over these two motions, I will withdraw these two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u82	Is there any objection to that? I see that this is not the case. Then the motion is in part No. 28 and the motion in part No. 29 by Mrs Dekker and Mr Ceder. Let me put it right: they've been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u83	Anyone else want to rescind his motions? That is not the case. Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for being here today. I wish her a pleasant Easter weekend and a good Good Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u84	Same to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-14-tweedekamer-10.u85	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, on the amendments and on the motions for resolutions. I'm suspending until 4:15 p.m.
