ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the report on the suicide of an undercover agent. We have nine speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Helder from the Group of the Party for Freedom. She has five minutes of speaking time, like everyone else, and the floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Twelve years ago, when my husband was asked to do this work, a supervisor asked during a conversation: "Do you consider that this work is very dangerous to him? Worst-case scenario, he gets shot." I always had a criminal in mind. But I never thought that the organization for which he so much loved to work would get him killed." It's words that go through marrow and bone, pronounced by the widow of a highly esteemed policeman. These are words that have been confirmed by the Brouwer Committee, which has examined this case. I quote: "The committee can therefore only conclude that there is a relationship between the death of the infiltrator and his work. A hard but inevitable conclusion." End of quote. The hardest fact is that a family must now move on without a husband and without a father. This is a family whose life has been devoted to the work of the undercover agent for ten years. The policeman has paid the highest price for the incompetence of the leadership of the National Unit and in particular of the part for which he worked. Countless signals from him and his colleagues that it did not go well have been systematically ignored, with this fateful outcome. As if that's not bad enough, the misery continues on two fronts. Firstly, and that is also my first question to the Minister: how is it that the district attorney who decided to employ this undercover agent is also the officer who investigated his death? This is so unusual that I'm almost distracted from this that there's something to hide. That investigation is therefore totally independent and can immediately enter the trash. I don't understand why the minister in her letter says she has no reason to doubt the public prosecutor's story. I therefore have a motion for a re-examination, but I would like to hear the Minister first. Secondly, there is no doubt that the cop's death was work-related. To my horror, however, the police say they are morally responsible, but not legally. In my view, that is completely wrong. An employer must ensure a safe working environment. No one can claim that this was the case in this case. Is the Minister prepared to make maximum efforts for the next of kin, so that they do not have to carry out procedures for years to come? Then there's the second indigestible issue, the death of that police informant named Freddy Janssen. That's on Team Criminal Intelligence, the TCI of the National Unity. Twice the Chamber has been lied to about this. The previous minister and the current minister are not well informed by the police summit. Once again, important witnesses have not been heard, although it has been promised. The first time I had to point this out to the previous Minister, after I had received reliable information on this matter. Then a committee came up in response. That committee now states that the death of the police informant cannot be attributed to the police, but it appears that yet again an important witness has not been heard. Relevant reports have even been extracted from the systems. It is therefore said internally: "This operation is one big cover-up," which is a quote. From a reliable source I have also learned that there is an investigation into a third suicide at the Working Under Cover section. Mr. Chairman. It doesn't stop: every time new problems come to the surface. The death of the undercover agent, the lie to the minister and the chamber and the removal from the systems of relevant reports have hardly any consequences to date. In the same way as the police, two police chiefs have been promoted, but no one learns or takes responsibility. And what about the security of the agents at the workplace? The inspection has already established in three reports that there is, in short, job neglect, inadequate management, a diseased culture with tensions and as a result a significant reduction in human well-being. In business, those responsible would have been fired long ago, but not with the police. The organization responsible for ensuring the safety of all of us neglects its own people and the leadership remains on the plush. Is the Minister prepared to pass the broom through the police organisation and set up an external committee to oversee this? The police summit has so far proven to have failed. Therefore, it cannot be trusted that the same people will carry out all the recommendations made, while the police officers in the workplace, who do this important work, deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u3	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mrs. Michon-Derkzen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Working undercover is lonely. And that has a big impact on a human being. If you infiltrate a criminal organization for a long time, you live in two worlds. At work, you get into your role as a criminal and you're someone else. You'll do whatever you think is necessary to do the job and gain the confidence of suspicious criminals. At home with your family, you just have to be yourself. If those two worlds are so intertwined that you run into your own borders, you need to be able to fall back on your supervisor. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the undercover agent we're talking about today is no longer alive. He got into a mess between the two worlds he lived in. He saw no way out of the spiritual distress he was in and took his own life. It succumbed under the pressure of his dangerous and lonely work. That's really tragic and sad. I wish his next of kin a lot of strength from this place. I have great respect for infiltrators. They deserve support for their courageous efforts to make the Netherlands safer. That rating applies posthumously to Peter, too. I expect the Minister and colleagues to share this with me. Mr. Chairman. I told you, police work is hard work. If you're a cop risking your own life by infiltrating, you should be able to count on your supervisor's support. But that does not always seem to be enough. The suicide of this undercover agent cannot be separated from the problems faced by the police leadership of the National Unit. The VVD is therefore also critical of the National Unity. There are now three inspection reports on individual teams and a report from the Schneiders Commission will follow shortly. The inspection reports show that there is unprofessional behaviour, that power is being abused, that there is boyfriend politics and that there is little or no room for criticism or for looking critically at yourself again. That's serious. It's gotta be different soon. I would like to know from the Minister what, in addition to the improvement plans set out in the inspection reports and these reports, they are going to do to actually solve the persistent problems. Because the VVD thinks that thorough steps are needed. The Chief of Police of the National Unit stopped at the end of 2021. The head of the Specialist Operations Service has quit. I respect that and I think that is inevitable. But the next thing I know, I'm asking the Minister. The work continues and the necessary improvements in the National Unity must be taken up as soon as possible. About working under a cover and specifically about Peter's suicide, who we're talking about today, a report has been prepared by the Brouwer Commission. The previous minister mentioned that report in a disconcerting manner. He immediately paid 3 million euros to prevent repetition. This money would include measures to improve the safety and well-being of undercover agents. Where did that money actually go, I ask the Minister. Is there more attention to the spiritual well-being of the agents now? Have the teams actually gotten smaller? In these operations, the D.A. has the authority over the deployment. The DA's office has also failed in my view. In order to obtain the authority to infiltrate, you now need the prior consent of the College of Attorney General as a district attorney. They in turn ask for advice from a committee, the CTC. That went to hell here. Is it true that the officer running the case also had a role in authorizing infiltration? Is it true that no criteria have been included in the internal rules, instructions, of the prosecution since 2014 and that we do not have any public framework on which that committee, the CTC, reviews such a request? I think that's weird. I would like to hear from the Minister how the procedure is changed. I would also like to have a reflection on the clear article by Sophie Naber, which was published this afternoon in the Dutch Juristenblad. Mr. Chairman. That it went so wrong in this case, puts a spotlight on undercover operations. As far as my group is concerned, these operations themselves are not under discussion, because we face the great challenge of tackling organised crime. Infiltration is and remains an effective means to expose criminal networks and to capture and capture the top of criminal organisations. The deployment of infiltrators has led to successful actions in recent years. Criminals who stayed under the radar for a long time have been hit by undercover operations. The VVD doesn't want to interfere with the selection and training of undercover agents are also of high level............................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u5	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Werf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u6	We can only conclude that there is a relationship between the death of the infiltrator and his work, according to the Brouwer Committee. That is a harsh and painful conclusion, which also supports the JenV Inspection. It's about a man who was so involved in his work that he lost himself in it. I wish his next of kin a lot of strength from this place. Mr. Chairman. The problem with the National Unity is not new, but the reports are stacked up: KPMG and the Brouwer Commission reports, three inspection reports, and a fact-finding investigation by the police and the public prosecutor. Then we get a final review of the inspection and we get another opinion from the Schneiders Committee. Are you still following it? I understand the importance of thorough research and advice on such serious issues, but it is to become despondent about it. There is a deep gap between the summit and the workplace, and a culture in which the relationship is more important than its content. You wonder how that's possible in an organization where the cut is so big. There should be people in the top who are thriving on their staff, yearning for newcomers and saying, "Come on through with those side-instromers; let some fresh looks from outside the place move a little bit. But the movement that is now visible did not come from that summit. It had to be enforced with external research. Mr. Chairman. If you don't understand that, you not only miss the much needed connection to the workplace, but then you don't understand what the politics and governance of a large employer can expect. In the meantime, those responsible seem to only switch places within the organisation. That's a problem we often see in the police. If you're blue, you stay blue. People get promoted or shifted in case of problems. That's a bad incentive; if there's no self-cleaning ability, you don't have to fix yourself either. That is why I ask the Minister: when will the National Unity now be structurally reformed? How can the Court be proactively involved, rather than having to repeat the abuses of reports? Mr. Chairman. Then specifically the Department of Shielded Operations, and in particular the Working Team Under Cover, where the biggest problems took place. The most urgent question now is: can the ongoing investigations still be carried out responsibly? I'm talking about these covert operations. The Minister has been assured of it and I would like to believe it, but knowing that the organisational structure is still the same, I find that difficult. The essence of the problem was that no one was responsible. The formally responsible team chiefs were too far away from the workplace to know what was going on, while the informal team leaders did not feel responsible for personal care. So I wonder from whom the conclusion is that that concern is now guaranteed. Does the Minister know what has been done in concrete terms? Also whistleblowers were sent from the locker to the wall. They even risked repercussions for their reports. What's the status of the whistleblowers within the police? Do they know, for example, how to find the way to the House for Whistleblowers? Mr President, so much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u7	Thank you. Then Mr Van Nispen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u8	Suppose your partner has a job that you can never leave with your family without worrying, where when you go somewhere with your kids, your kids know that when the sign is given, they have to run. Suppose you're that partner and you see your lover walking up walls at work, a place where the heaviness of the track should be understood. Suppose you ring the bell because you see it's not going well, but you don't hear that your partner, the father of your children, is putting an end to his life because he can't take the pressure anymore. The undercover agent's appeal is massive. If this is exposed, it is not only a huge risk to the agent himself but also to his or her loved ones. A cop with this job makes great sacrifices for the importance of all of us to fight crime. After such tragic events, compassion is the least you can offer, but the police organization didn't give any chorus. Even after the appearance of two destructive reports, the family feels she has to fight over compensation. For there would be moral liability but no legal one. How is this sustainable after these studies? Can the Minister guarantee that this family will not be rushed into a lengthy, lengthy procedure but that the government will be generous here? Mr. Chairman. The two investigation reports are extremely critical of the functioning of the undercover department of the National Police Unit. That is not the only part of the National Unity in which this kind of destructive criticism sounds. It is very worrying that the unit where such important matters need to be taken up does not seem to be getting its own business in order. Measures were already implemented in 2016, because it has been known for a long time that there are problems, but " unfortunately they have not led to the fundamental changes that are needed," said the police themselves in a pretty understatement. The research reports outline an image of a toxic working environment: nepotism, poor management, high workload, low perspective and lack of guidance and support. Can the Minister reflect on the role she believes the formation of the National Police has played in the creation of this? Due to the breakdown of the police, the pressure to complete a large case can become many times higher, if your job has become dependent on a successful one. And if there is sufficient staff, then surely it is not necessary to ask people who have been doing this heavy work for many years and actually want and have to stop, for another intensive task? Can the Minister comment on the opinion of the Brouwer Commission, which states that there is far too little perspective for these employees if they are unable or unable to carry out this work any longer? What options does the Minister see in this area? And if things go wrong, agents must be able to rely on sound and independent investigations, so that justice can be done and abuses can be recognised in good time. But both in the case of the cop's suicide and in the investigation into the murder of an informant, there are serious doubts about the prosecution's deployment. How is it possible that an officer is investigating the death of an undercover agent who is also involved in the criminal investigation that the police officer was working on? Mrs Helder was right to ask for this, and others did. That's just not easy to understand. I do not think that the Minister's letter on this issue is sufficient either. In addition, the Brouwer Committee says that ethical limits have been harmed by children getting involved in the undercover action. However, the Public Prosecutor has not requested advice from the Central Review Committee. Of course, that would have been desirable. Can the Minister comment on why no permission has been requested? Shouldn't these safeguards be tightened up? What's that gonna look like in the future? At the same time, the police unions and police officers are concerned about the investigation of the Reichscherche into the death of a criminal informant of the police. There would have been investigations in the drawer gone missing, witnesses have not been heard, and there are secret investigations into secret investigations, saying that something has gone wrong, but we promise you that that has really nothing to do with this kind of thing. You can't do that, can you? How can we ensure better and more transparent monitoring of these types of investigations? These two cases also prove that the undercover work and working with criminal informants is very vulnerable: to the agents, to the informants, to their relatives and to society as a whole. And how much that can go wrong proves the IRT affair of the nineties. It is not for nothing that certain research methods stopped. Now we pay criminal informants a lot of money, but does that outweigh the social benefits? Are these methods ethically sustainable? Are they legally sustainable? Does it really lead to greater social security? Or is it a drop in the ocean in the fight against drug crime? By the way, we are in danger of losing that battle because of the years of destruction of our police. The fact that this fragile work has to be carried out within departments that are malfunctioning is a serious concern. Because if the problems are so great, should we not ask ourselves whether we can continue to carry on this type of investigation responsibly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u9	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Knops from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u10	Mr. Chairman. The death of a cop always makes a big impression. Policemen are in daily danger for our security, for the protection of the rule of law, for dealing with criminals and for tracking down suspects. In recent years, we have seen that their work is becoming more and more under pressure. They must do their job under increasingly difficult circumstances. Sometimes they're literally under attack from criminals. It is precisely for this reason that every officer deserves our great respect and we have an expensive duty, even here in Parliament, to do everything in our power to equip and equip people and to ensure that they are protected as effectively as possible. All the more so, the death of this undercover agent, which we are talking about, was not caused by an external threat, but by an experienced insecurity from our own police organization. I would therefore like to express my condolences on behalf of the CDA Group to the relatives from this place. I wish them every strength in this difficult situation. After the death of this agent, Minister Grapperhaus immediately set up an independent committee that was able to investigate the facts and circumstances. He also investigated whether there was a possible link between the working conditions at the Specialist Operations Service and the suicide. And there was. In the view of the Minister, the conclusions of the report were unambiguous and disconcerting. He shared the feelings of deception, sadness and anger that the report evokes. The conclusions on working with a highly specialised elite unit, whose task is to gather evidence to bring the greatest criminals to justice, are harsh. How did it happen, so the Minister asks, that things got so out of hand, that signals were not picked up and that the higher management had no idea what was going on in the workplace? What does this say about culture, about the leadership of this unity? The Brouwer Commission was very hard on the lack of professionalism. This therefore requires a different approach. More importantly, what are we going to do to prevent this? As far as the CDA Group is concerned, we should not be cramped, we should not think of more rules, but we should take the signals seriously, do something with them and not look away. For we cannot miss the task of the DSO, as has been said before. Of course, there are risks to this difficult work, but it is precisely the use of these far-reaching powers that is a serious means, which obliges us to have a high level of professionalism in the organisation, so that there is a safe working environment in relation to the outside world and its own organisation. Undercover operations require a lot of policemen mentally: the risk of discovery, the mental pressure to be recognized and pressure on the family. It is precisely in that situation, where isolation is lurking, that there must be a professional backstop. However, it was largely absent. I therefore ask the Minister to reflect on whether this is a broader problem in the National Unity. Does she have a visual on that? I would also like to hear from the Minister how she ensures that we get another DSO where people can safely do their important work and what the criminals fear. Because, as I said earlier, the instrument has shown in recent years that it can be extremely useful in the detection of criminal organisations. It is a good thing that the Minister embraces all eight recommendations of the Brouwer Commission and makes EUR 3 million available to make this possible, but it is mainly about attitude, about wanting to understand the story behind the story. Right here, the leadership of the teams WOD and DSO failed. According to the inspection, the organisational model of the national police is not translated into the more specific nature of the Division of Shielded Operations. This raises the question, also in connection with the inspection report, as to the extent to which the organisation of the national police is adequate and timely, given the great need at this time to share information and run complex operations. There is talk in every debate about the capacity of the police and the need to expand, again today, but we all know that you can't turn out cops. We will be discussing this in detail shortly. But since the JenV inspection identifies a number of bottlenecks that affect the entire police organisation, I would like to ask the question: how does the Minister view this? How does it prevent islands and encourage closer cooperation between the different units? What are the main obstacles to this at the moment in her view? Finally, can the Minister outline how the measures announced will be implemented? Mr. Chairman. The Hague rule reflex is of course known and famous. Something terrible is happening, the Chamber calls alas, the Minister promises decisive measures and we have a list of rules again. How do we prevent the recommendations and the Sorgdrager committee to be set up from creating a sort of tick-off list with even more rules for the organisation, making the work of these people even more difficult in practice? This simply fits the commitment of a decisive and convincing approach that gives us the confidence that the death of this policeman, with all the grief and pain, is accompanied by something positive: a look in the mirror, to ensure that personnel care is not just a letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u11	Thank you. Then Mrs Simons from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would like to start with a word of sympathy to the next of kin. For us as a Chamber, the debate is about the problems underlying this terrible and tragic event. However, I do not believe that we should dwell on the pain that this undoubtedly causes to the people in the immediate circle of the agent in question. Colleagues did that before. Unfortunately, I know from experience that suicide often unleashes a complex mix of emotions. I wish them every strength in doing so. Having said that, and however difficult, we need to talk about some fundamental problems within the police. In the situation we are discussing today, the police have simply failed. It cost someone his life. People from his immediate circle have called the bell several times, but the organisation had no regard for the well-being of her employee. That seems to be a broader problem. As a result of various abuses, investigations have been carried out within different parts of the National Unity in the past period. The conclusions were the same everywhere: there is the question of nepotism, lack of leadership, manipulation and the cover-up of problems. Unfortunately, that is as we know the organization a bit now. Since my entry into this house, I have, among other things, on the basis of these findings, asked several written questions about abuses within the police organisation. A number of these questions were answered in concrete terms. For example, on consequences: when are we going to hold people from the top of the police responsible for failure and malpractice? The Minister is ultimately responsible for the functioning of this organisation. In that light, how does it look, for example, at the functioning of the corps management, in this case, but also at the abuses which, according to the aforementioned investigations, occur in several places in the organisation? Can the Minister finally admit that there is a pattern? Not only would this do justice to the seriousness of the situation and its consequences, of which the tragedy that is the cause of this debate is only a painful example, but it would also give us concrete guidance in order to begin the thorough reforms that are needed if necessary. Is the Minister prepared, for example, to broaden the scope of the investigations that have now been carried out? The results show me that it is unfortunately plausible that these abuses have been spread throughout the organisation. Does the Minister share that opinion? Even if that is not the case, does she think it would be better to deal with such signals preventively instead of having to conclude, as we have now, that we could and should have done more? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the poignant consequences for the people within the organisation, these are, I fear, also for the people outside. Through, among other things, persistent ethnic profiling, unlawful use of violence and the denial of the right to demonstrate, confidence in the police continues to decrease. To what extent can we trust that these deeply rooted problems will be tackled decisively if the police do not even get their own internal problems under control? What can we expect from the improvement of cops on the street when we read that their leadership doesn't provide guidance and puts wrongdoings under the carpet? That is my main appeal today. Keeping off these abuses and not calling those responsible to account is not only bad for the people within the organisation, but it affects us all, as a whole society. It shows that the police in its present state, the way it is now organised and functioning, is unable or will ever be able to solve the major problems. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, that is what is at stake today. It's a tragic event that exposes mountains of injustice. Unrighteousness that must be combated, not through hopeful thinking and not by holding on to the false dream that the organisation can make itself better. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This can only be achieved through drastic reforms and a completely new culture within the organisation. I wonder how our minister looks at that. But above all, I hope that we will begin today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u13	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Kathmann from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my condolences to the relatives and colleagues of the agent we are talking about today. I'm aware this is a difficult day. When we talk about this, as a family, as a next of kin, you also have a kind of moment of re-experience. But I find it especially difficult that we are talking about this and not with, when we all know how clear their opinion is and that they might have really wanted to have their say here about the failure and about what happened to their loved ones. That is why I find this debate so difficult, firstly because it is painful and secondly because we are once again standing here and having to question the functioning of the police. We do that knowing one thing: that all those men and women in the field are not to blame. If we talk about it here, the feeling could arise that that part of the police, which is in the clay every day, would not function while they are working the folds out of the pants. That really hurts me. Because we are really only talking about the functioning of the summit. The undercover team we're talking about today is also doing an incredibly important job every day. They are crucial in the roll-up of organised crime and undermining crime. We all know that the real problem is a bit here too, in The Hague. Because it's code black with the police, because their own people are neglected, making it unsafe in the workplace. It is code black because for a very long time too few resources have been allocated to a safe workplace. The undercover unit report we're talking about today doesn't lie about it. The conclusions are really hard and shocking. The suicide and the working environment are related. As Mrs Helder of the PVV said, that has nothing to do with the risk of the work they do, because they already knew that when they started doing it. That is why I have a number of questions. Improvement plans are under way and there are investigations by the Sorgblader committee, but all of this is going to take a lot of time. We can't wait for that. Policemen must be able to do their work properly and safely, within a culture in which they can feel safe, supported by their relevant leadership. How is the Minister gonna take care of that already? In fact, I do not want to leave here today without a timeline from the Minister, because the letter talks about recommendations that can be implemented quickly. I would therefore like to know very specifically how quickly what measures can be taken and how the Minister is going to ensure that the Chamber can keep its finger on the pulse. The next question is what is the outcome of the investigation by the chief of police of ongoing undercover operations. Have any situations been identified that cannot be considered safe for the agent? How's the improvement programme going? Then I have some questions about the role the Minister himself wants to take. Is the Minister gonna be on top of it? Is the minister going to take the lead? Isn't it just left to commission or chief of police? Will the Minister also ensure, for example, that the Chamber receives a progress report every three months? Previous speakers have already said that something is really going on here. Trust in the police is at stake. We can't do that to all those people who are sent out every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u15	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group. We have two more speakers to talk about. Then I'll suspend for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Chairman and best inhabitants of the Netherlands. First of all, I would like to wish the relatives of the undercover agent we are talking about today good luck with the unbearable loss of their loved one. The fact that we are talking about this case is undoubtedly difficult for them, but hopefully there will also be justice and satisfaction. It's unbelievable that all the alarm bells were ignored; signals from him, but also from colleagues. Mr. Chairman. Our agents, our soldiers, our firefighters and all others who take responsibility for our safety: they do what they do from a vocation, an inexhaustible commitment to the Netherlands and the safety of its citizens. They are prepared to do so. They sometimes even sacrifice their own health for this devotion. We must be in awe of this. However, we also fit a different role. As representatives of the people and government, we must be the hand on the shoulder of these people, the voice that says: think of yourself. We can do this by making sure that new policies are put in place in this safe house, new policies that will ensure that agents are better assisted in their hard work and the mental burden that this creates for many. An end to power games and boyfriend politics. This hand on the shoulder is necessary not only for the undercover agents in special operations, but also for the agents who are under heavy pressure in their daily work and for the agents who, for example in rural areas, where drug crime is increasing, have to cover a huge area with very little human force. The families of our agents deserve support, too. Let's not forget them. Can the Minister explain how mental health and resilience are taken into account during training? Can the Minister explain how after the training, so when agents are really active as agents, attention is paid to these matters? Can the Minister indicate to what extent families of agents receive guidance? It is incredibly sad that we have had to lose three agents over the last two years before we talk about this, but let's do it quickly and dampen the well. How are we going to create a situation in the police department in which cops feel safe to raise wrongdoings without having to worry about putting their careers in the dirt? How are we gonna make sure cops don't lose themselves in their jobs? How are we going to ensure that cops are given a safe working environment? It is unbelievable that the people who take care of our safety are sometimes not even in a safe working environment. How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. According to the reports, there was no action on strong indications that the undercover agent would go wrong. How is this possible? Why was this left behind? How many more times does this happen? Is there a good idea of that with the Minister? What is the Minister doing to ensure that more appropriate action is taken in the future? Then there's the case of the district attorney leading the investigation into the suicide. He turned out to be one of the case officers in the criminal case in which the infiltrator was deployed. This harmed confidence in the investigation. I know that the Minister has now admitted that this was a mistake, but it still gnaws. Why is there always a conflict of interest after investigation, or at least an appearance of conflict of interest? What is fundamentally wrong with the Dutch administrative culture, that this kind of conflict of interest seems more rule than exception? Does the Minister want to reflect on this? Is it an idea to ask an external body to double-check whether there are no integrity conflicts when the committee of inquiry is set up? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Watchful and obedient. A well-known slogan from the police. Let us also be vigilant and of service to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u17	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u18	Mr. Chairman. I would like to join all those colleagues who have spoken with sympathy towards this policeman's next of kin. An extraordinarily gripping death. A tragic event. Something that should never have happened. But it happened. It must be very hard for them to live with that memory. I wish them much strength and strength in the processing and giving a place to this loss. Mr. Chairman. This policeman did an important and dangerous job for our society; essential in the fight against undermining crime. We must continue to ask ourselves whether the effectiveness of the use of works under cover still outweighs the extent to which this intervenes in the lives of these agents. Life under a different identity and the adoption of another character is incredibly difficult, as it appears over and over again. That's what the cop said in his suicide note. His life was taken from him by the personality he had assumed in the operation. He expressed his hope that he would be remembered under his real name and with his real personality. When working under cover, we need to tighten up this question of proportionality at the front. The Brouwer Committee concludes that the risks associated with the long-term and intensive use of the infiltrator could and should have been recognised. That would have been part of the professional guidance. If we want to continue to use this instrument in the future, we need to consider not only the legal safeguards but also the ethical aspects during the process. My first question to the Minister concerns this point. Can the Minister indicate how this consideration of the ethical aspects will be secured in the future during the process? As a follow-up, does the lack of an ethical balance have to do with a lack of capacity in the department? If so, is the Minister prepared to take action there as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. Then about the role of the D.A.'s office. We have read the report with some surprise. The SGP has its doubts about the role of the prosecutor, both in the investigation and in the case on which the agent was working. The district attorney who led the National CID investigation into the undercover agent's suicide last year was also a case officer in the criminal case for which the infiltrator was deployed. My question to the Minister: can the Minister explain why it has not been recognised before that this investigation could have been better guided by another prosecutor? It is said that the position of the D.A.'s office is independent from the law. That will all be true, but if there is not a light at the time when such a decision is taken, then there are friends, I would say, who should draw someone's attention to the fact that it cannot be done and that another decision has to be made. The Minister admits that afterwards. Anyway, I'd like to await the motion of the PVV group. In addition, the Public Prosecutor's Office did not request permission from the Central Review Committee prior to the trajectory. This remains a vague point in last year's Minister's letter. I would like to explain this. In the report, the Brouwer Committee makes recommendations to an independent committee to arrive at a comprehensive system of safeguards in the secretive domain. Well, that's good. But what is the role of the Central Review Committee? The entire report shows that the prosecution has failed to supervise this case, let's just call the child by the name. A professional organisation such as the D.A. can be expected to be very attentive during these infiltrations and to take the signals of the agents in particular seriously. And that didn't happen. Mr. Chairman. Looking to the future. The SGP shares the conclusion in the Brouwer report that the Department of Works under cover has been seriously flawed, insofar as we can assess that on the basis of the available data, and that the professionalism of the organisation as a whole leaves serious shortcomings. The police department of the police organisation, which monitors the safety of its citizens in the Netherlands, fails to protect its own people. The Division of Shielded Operations and the service to which it belongs urgently needs a thorough renovation. As I said, more attention should be paid to the ethical aspects of police work. In these undercover actions, the dangerous and important work done by these agents for the safety of the Netherlands must not be above the safety of the lives of the agents themselves. How's the secretary gonna bail this out? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u19	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. I'm gonna suspend until 6:45 and then we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u20	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a debate that affects all of us. From my first day as Minister, the National Unit has my attention. I have taken note of all the investigations, including the report of the Brouwer Commission on the suicide of the police officer working as an infiltrator. I can imagine that this report has been hard hit by relatives and colleagues. The report has taken hold of me, too. I would like to express my sincere condolences. I am well aware that next of kin and colleagues are now looking at this debate, hearing us talk about reports and findings, about casusism and guarantees, but in the meantime their lover, their colleague, have in mind a human being. I think I speak on behalf of everyone here, but let me keep it to myself when I say: there is no time for me to forget. It is therefore more than obvious that your Chamber is asking sharp questions today, searching for the truth, for what has happened, and seeking guarantees for the future. In this we stand shoulder to shoulder. That's exactly my bet. I think it would be a good idea to divide all the studies that have been carried out and the subjects that have been introduced into the various categories. On the one hand, we have the investigations of the inspection, some of which you have already received from my predecessor. These studies show that there is a pattern of problems in the National Unity. These problems affect the organisation, management and culture. This calls for a firm multi-annual approach that improves the basis. On the other hand, there are investigations into concrete cases. That's what I come up with in the second part of my story. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. The various investigations of the inspection have highlighted the acute underlying problem in the National Unity. Measures can now be taken to address this issue and to work towards the future towards a solid foundation for the National Unity. The Chief Constable has already initiated an improvement programme at the National Unity to address the acute problem. This month I expect the interim opinion of the Schneiders Committee on the improvements needed to address the underlying causes. On receipt of this opinion, I will inform your Chamber. This opinion will further guide the Chief of Staff's improvement programme. Very specific measures are being taken at the Working Under Cover team. This is necessary because research has shown that the team's professionalism has been seriously inadequate. That is not acceptable, because undercover work is indispensable in the fight against organised crime. In the meantime, all the routes in which this team is involved have been vetted for irresponsible risks. The Chief Constable and the College of Attorney General have assured me that they have the confidence that the ongoing routes can be carried on responsibly, stating that all risks associated with collusion can never be removed. The police have also taken the first steps to structurally professionalise the Working Under Cover team. The other recommendations of the Brouwer Commission will be implemented in the near future. Furthermore, a committee chaired by former Minister Winnie Sorgdrager will advise on a comprehensive system of safeguards for covert work. This committee will check with visits whether the necessary improvements at Working Under Cover really are being carried out. This whole package of measures is working on a structural improvement of and a solid basis for the National Unity. Then there are the investigations into concrete cases. They also touch the National Unity. In your questions, the state detective's investigation into the cause of death of the police officer and the fact-finding investigation into events involving the Team Criminal Intelligence came back. In the media, I have seen that there are signals that raise doubts and critical questions about these investigations. In view of the wide-ranging problem of the National Unity, I can well imagine that your Chamber would like to dwell on this. These are matters that have been played in a highly confidential environment. It is in the interests of all of us to respect this confidentiality. The identities of infiltrators and informants must never be disclosed. That would be a great danger to the people who are doing this important work and their environment. Therefore, this information is only known to a limited number of people and investigations into specific cases are classified as confidential or secret. Because of the necessary secrecy, I can't completely remove your doubts and inconvenience. The results of the investigations are also given to me. In doing so, I rely on the integrity and professionalism of the researchers. However, I think it is very important that signals about the integrity of these researchers are taken seriously. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to begin with the fact-finding of the two events involving Team Criminal Intelligence. I have heard the signals about this that not everyone who wanted to be heard would have been heard. Again, I have no reason to doubt the investigation, but I do agree with your Chamber that, especially in the light of all the problems surrounding the National Unity, there is no room for noise or, more firmly, for people who say they have not been heard. I'll ask the D.A. and the police to check if anyone really wanted to be heard and let me know about this. Of course, I will return to your Chamber on that. Mr. President, may I finish my story for a moment? 'Cause I still have a little. But then I have the second part of...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u22	This is kind of an introduction, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u23	Yes. I really do come back to a number of elements in that. I understand the need for interruptions, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u24	Yes. You're gonna finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u25	...maybe I can finish the second part, because it's also about the investigation of the National CID into the cause of death of the police infiltrator. I know there have been concerns about the objectivity of the investigation. Those concerns are there, because the prosecutor who led the investigation into the cause of death was also involved in the investigation in which the police infiltrator operated. The D.A. has told me that I regret that there have been doubts about this and that it recognises that the deployment of another prosecutor would probably have avoided these doubts in the light of ex post. I'm going to have a very short talk with the D.A. to see how in the future any appearance of bias can be avoided. It is good to stress that the D.A. has assured me that it relies on the care and objectivity with which this national detective investigation into the cause of death of the police infiltrator has been carried out. I have no reason to doubt this. But as I said, I'm going to talk to the D.A. about the future. Mr. Chairman. I have one final point, if you don't mind. After that, of course, I have all the questions. Last but not least, I have a few words to the police officers in the secret domain. It is now of course the most important that they deserve a safe working environment, in which they know and are supported, so that they can continue to do this heavy and so important work outside the spotlight, for your and our safety. I will also be committed to this in the coming period. I would have liked to continue with Mrs Helder's first question on how I look at the fact-finding by the Public Prosecutor's Office at Team Criminal Intelligence, but perhaps she would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u26	Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u27	Actually, I'd like to ask a thousand and one questions. First of all, the current chief of police has been there since 2010, since the formation of the national police. Several reports show that this is where the germ of the problem has been laid. My first question is: how should we trust, after this whole pile of misery, that this chief of police is about to make those recommendations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u28	As one of the MPs said, there are a lot of reports and findings, but we are not done with them. We will keep an eye on each other, whether it is the Sorgblader Committee or the Schneiders Committee, which is now coming up with an interim report and by the summer with a final report. I think it is very important that we continue to monitor this together. That is one of the questions I received from Mrs Kathmann, for example: how can we continue to follow that? There's gonna be a report every six months. You've been used to that, but you're not going to. Let us return to those elements which the Chamber considers important so that it can be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u29	There are all kinds of committees and nothing changes at all. The people in the workplace don't have any confidence in it. It is just these people at the top, among whom the problems have arisen, who have to solve the problems. The minister's new. Of course, she can't change that much. But it's the same people who have to inform this minister. First of all, I have absolutely no confidence that they will solve it. I also have no confidence that they will inform the Minister correctly. That is what I said in my speech. The Minister has already been misinformed twice. I don't understand why the Minister says she has no reason not to trust the prosecution's judgment. She said that also when the College of Attorney General came back around the corner at Team Criminal Intelligence. Why does the Minister say twice that in two different situations she sees no reason not to rely on the judgment of the Public Prosecutor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u30	I have no specific reason to say that it went wrong and that it should have had a different outcome, but at the same time two things still apply. Firstly, I know that Mrs Helder drew attention to this many years ago. She has done so structurally, as a result of sounds she heard from the organization. I think that's super valuable. I also hope that we will continue to collect information in this way. I'm getting a lot of information. I've always done that as a Member of Parliament, and I'm not gonna do that any other way. Even though I now have no reason to say that the investigations should be repeated or not, I do think that I should table with the prosecution to see how any appearance of bias can be avoided in the future. I fully agree with the Members of Parliament that you do not want to have a conversation about this. That must be very clear. That's what I'm saying. Regarding the other investigation into the Team Criminal Intelligence, involving police and justice: it has been reported that people have not been heard who would have liked to be heard. I am not saying: I am aware of that and I accept that. I'm asking the police and the justice department to look at that again and to link this back to me. That way I can reconnect to you what's been done with those sounds. What's in store here, the guarantees that there are and what I can do, show that I don't just take things. I don't have any reason to get those tests done again right now, but I'm going to work with those sounds very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u31	But there is reason to doubt it. During a debate with the previous Minister on the Team Criminal Intelligence, I learned from a reliable source that what is in the report is not correct. Two witnesses haven't been heard. That's when the committee got here. The committee says: there is no reason to doubt the outcome now. Then we get the message that another witness hasn't been heard. So there are two concrete reasons for not relying on that judgment anymore. So I honestly don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u32	I understand Mrs Helder's frustration. I also understand why she's asking me this question. The Team Criminal Intelligence works with highly confidential information, as Mrs Helder obviously knows. For this reason, the way we conduct research is different from what we are used to in other agencies, organisations and departments, where we can simply conduct public investigations and discuss the whole research and then the recommendations here. It's different here. But I also said, and I say this to Mrs Helder again, that I want attention to be paid to this. I don't want us to take the input from people who say they should have been heard and wanted to be. I think it is very important that there is no murmur there, that word may sound disrespectful, but that is absolutely not what I mean. I want the investigation to be trusted so we can move forward. That's very important to me. That is also why I have said in this case to the police: pay attention to that and that you are feedback so that we can follow it up with each other. 'Cause you want to move forward. I do not see any specific reason to say that the whole investigation should be repeated, but it is not the case that I simply ignore the signals and say: of which I am aware. Certainly not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u33	I actually feel sorry for Mrs. Helder. That's because it's not the first time we've had to ask questions about the investigation on its own. There are many more questions to ask in this debate, on the matter itself and on matters that have gone wrong, but also on the investigation. What's this supposed to mean? What's the Minister's analysis? How is it that the same officer is involved in the investigation that then has to be independent? How can a very important witness tell us not to be heard? What's the Minister's analysis of that? Is there really the will to know what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u34	I think so. I think that we are genuinely looking at how we can ensure that we learn lessons from the past, that it gets better and that we protect our people better. I have real confidence that this is being worked on with conviction. You were able to read in the letter I sent yesterday about the investigation of the Reichscherche and the role of the D.A.'s office. That is precisely about Mr Van Nispen's question about how it is possible that that is twice the same person. It's a common procedure, M.O. I did say that I was going to sit down with the D.A. to see if that was the way it should be and whether you should not want to avoid any appearance of bias. In this way, I think we are going to get it sharper and better, so that those improvements are introduced. But I have every confidence that the people who are doing this now feel this too. They care about this, too. They also want to make it better for themselves, but also, of course, especially for the colleagues who work in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u35	It is really very bad that it is necessary at all for the Minister to have that conversation to explain that if you want independent research, you shouldn't have any bias. So we can only hope for better health for the future and give it to the Minister. Which brings me to another question. The Minister said in the introduction I appreciate the introduction and the warm words 'that she has taken note of all the reports'. But then the question is: is the Minister sure that she has had all the relevant information and that she has also had access to the reports, for example on the TCI?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u36	It's so confidential. Mr Van Nispen is right about that. I received the full letter with the findings and the results. I also forwarded it to the Chamber, also to show that this is the part I have. In my introductory text I also said that there is, of course, some discomfort here. On the one hand, we all want to be able to fully understand what has happened here, what is going on and whether these are the improvement steps. On the other hand, it's about covert operations, about protecting the identity and protecting those operations. That's where you have to be with each other... Yeah, I find it uncomfortable myself. There is nothing we can do about that, because we both want these operations to be protected. I also very much believe in the added value of such operations. This means that we absolutely need to learn from the lessons, not "never once," but now, quickly and carefully. That's my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u37	As far as I am concerned, that makes it a very difficult debate, because not everything can be shared. The Minister doesn't have all the information. It has to answer for things that have gone wrong and promise to get better, and we hope so. And Mr Knops rightly said that we should not shoot into the reflex, the cramp, that we all come up with new rules. That's right, but the bottom line is no one wants this to happen again. Here are all people who are motivated to prevent it from happening again, without knowing exactly what went wrong, because we don't have all the information. If people come to us because certain relevant reports have been taken out of the systems, then I can ask the Minister a question about this, but the Minister himself cannot know that either. That's what makes it really complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u38	I share that last point, but there are a lot of thorough reports. A lot of people are being watched. I will not repeat all these reports, because then it will be a very official and technical debate. But it's not like we're saying, hope of blessing, and we'll see. We are there ourselves, there are very clear points of improvement, we take over all the recommendations and we are also going to keep an eye on each other, of course I am primarily from my role. I'll get that back to all the conversations I have with the police and the justice system, and I'll make sure we report that in those six-month messages. So there is a lot of control on it and we have many moments of grip. Mr. Chairman. I actually wanted to move on to Mrs Helder's question about the Team Criminal Intelligence, but she has already come through in the interruptions. Maybe we'll talk about that again later. I've got a couple of folders. Is it useful if I tell you which ones are? I'll start with the National Unity in general. That's a lot of stuff. Then I have the ongoing investigations and then I have the Central Review Committee. Then I have something here that I can't read what it is, but that's about... I'll get to it in a minute. And then there's another block. I suggest that I include the latter among others, so we have solved that as well. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the National Unity. I had questions about this from Mrs Van der Werf and Mrs Michon, among others. They ask: when is the National Unit now being structurally reformed and how is the Chamber involved? The investigations of the Justice and Security Inspectorate have made it clear that the problem in the National Unity really requires an approach to root causes. It is true that structural improvements are needed that affect the organisation, the management and the culture. The Chief Constable has already launched an improvement programme to address acute issues. This month, as I said, I expect the interim opinion of the Schneiders Committee on the improvements needed to address the underlying causes. The interim opinion will be a short-term opinion. We get the final opinion by the summer and that is about the long term. We will ensure that all those elements that are relevant to the steering and also to the monitoring of them will return to those six-monthly reports from afterwards. After receiving the interim opinion, I will, of course, also inform the Chamber and I am sure we will discuss this with each other. This opinion will further guide the Chief of Staff's improvement programme. I will ask the inspection to examine at a later date whether these improvements have actually led to the desired effect. That is also a bit of an answer to Mr Van Nispen. Those are all kinds of steps that we also build in to ensure that we remain in control ourselves and that we can follow it. Mr Van Nispen then asked what the role of the formation of the national police was in the problem of the National Unity. I understand why this question is being asked, also in view of the investigations. As I wrote in my letter of 25 January, the problem with the National Unity is related to some of the root causes. One of these causes is the application of uniform set-up and control principles to all operational police units. In the meantime, it appears that this was not appropriate, as the national unit is a substantially different unit with other tasks. So that's a hell of a lesson. I expect the opinion of the Schneiders Committee, which I hope to receive later this month, to go into more detail on how to deal with the root causes of the problem. But I think that is the essence of the answer to Mr Van Nispen's question: it was just too much of a model sticking on it and that does not fit with the National Unity. Mr Knops asks how things got so out of hand and what this says about the leadership. There were several other questions about that. I think the problem at the National Unity is a combination of several factors. As has been said, improvements are needed in the organisation, in the management and in the culture. In the case of the Division of Shielded Operations and the deployment of undercover agents, too little attention was paid to the mental well-being of infiltrators and to ethical aspects of the undercover operation. I'll come back to that later. So it's very complex. It would be too easy for me to say that this is not what Mr Knops said either. The chief of police is in charge of the police. It is therefore ultimately up to the Chief Constable to intervene in the event of non-functioning executives. From my place I can't interfere in that way, but in this case I really think it's a combination of factors, as the studies show. Among other things, Mrs Helder and, in my opinion, Mrs Van der Werf asked when we would make the people in the police summit responsible. The answer follows on from the answer I gave to Mr Knops: I think the problem is too complex to say that it is only up to the executives. It's up to the Chief Constable to give that direction. I can't interfere with that from this place. Mrs Kathmann asked what the timeline for improvements is. I've said something about that a few times. How does the Chamber get involved? I understand you want to be able to follow this. We're gonna keep sending the six-month police reports to the Chamber. It will be very clear what the improvements to the National Unity mean and what the state of play is. This is therefore about the measures envisaged and taken. That piece is, of course, updated and updated every time on the basis of the reports we receive, so that we can follow what is going on. I guess I'll just... Otherwise I am going to repeat myself, because I have already said a few things about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u39	I have a question about the previous point, the executives. I would like to compliment the Minister, because I think it's chic that she says it's up to the Chief Constable and that she has a different role. As a parliamentarians, I have a completely different role. I'm gonna fit in to talk about executives here, too. But on the other hand, the problem cannot be separated from the executives. I'd like that point marked here. We are not going to go into the substance of this. But if I see all these reports, then I can only hope in this debate that the Chief Constable will take responsibility and take the necessary measures towards managers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u40	Yeah, that's what I meant by my answer. It's a combination of complex factors. Leading can also be included. It is indeed up to the chief of police and the organisation to deal with it properly and to ensure that it does work properly. As far as I am concerned, it is not up to me or us in this debate to judge this now, but that does not mean that it is not part of the complex factors that you need to look closely at and what the studies are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u41	My question about the timeline was specifically about the recommendations for the undercover team. The letter mentioned that a number of recommendations could be transposed very quickly. I do not know whether that will come back to me or whether my question had just been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u42	That's the Working Under Cover team. Very specific recommendations have been made for this. The first steps have also been taken. So no one's sitting still. It's about hiring psychologists and extra executives. That is being designed, and that is reflected in the six-month report, so that your Chamber can follow it. The resources of the Hermans motion, 3 million, go, among other things, to such elements. That is all to be seen in the Chamber, at least that is my intention. That is how the six-month reports have been filled with my knowledge in the past, and that is how I intend to do it as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u43	Then I do have a follow-up question. It is specifically said that a number of measures can be taken quickly. What measures are these? How soon? Maybe a six-month period for some measures is a little too long. Can you do it faster? Or can we at least get the timeline faster? That way we can keep a lot more finger on the wrist when it's safe on the workplace floor. 'Cause we know that's just not the case right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u44	I understand that question very well. I think we should cut it up. Some things can go faster. If you want the entire National Unity in order, as we would like it to be with each other, it will take a longer time. We have to be honest about that, too. That's gonna take a lot longer than a few weeks or a few months. That will be a process of years, because it is really about dealing with fundamental issues. I think that with the two reports we are going to get, we all have the measures and recommendations together. And I'm not even talking about the Sorgblader committee that looks specifically at Working Under Cover. In the meantime, steps are already being taken, such as the appointment of psychologists and additional executives. I can see if we can put that into some kind of planning, but for that I am also actually dependent on the report with Schneiders' interim advice and on the final opinion by the summer. Perhaps we can offer the Chamber a little more structure so that she knows when what will come in what way, so when the six-month report comes in and what you can find in it. That'll give you a little more grip. In fact, I have already answered the questions about the 3 million announced and what exactly they are used for. So that's for professionalizing Working Under Cover. This concerns the creation of smaller teams with their own managers, the appointment of experts for mental well-being, including psychologists, vocational development budgets and further training and budgets for the transition to another job outside the secret domain. The latter is the answer to the perspective question that also came along. These are all parts that have been and can be put into motion thanks to the Hermans motion. Mr Van Nispen asked if I could reflect on the opinion of the Brouwer Committee which states that there is little perspective for employees. That's exactly what we were just talking about. Employees feel left to their fate and are not facilitated by the organisation. That is a harsh conclusion, but it is even harder to live and work in it. It also has a very small chance of a new workplace after a role as an undercover. To support the employees there will be investment in good career guidance. The 3 million we have just talked about is also being used for this, as I said. So there's really specific attention to that. Then I got the question from a number of MPs, from among others D66, BBB and the Labour Party: how do we ensure that mental care is guaranteed? Police officers responsible for collusion are regularly confronted with exceptional working conditions. Their mental well-being absolutely deserves extra attention. The Brouwer Commission has found that the organisation has insufficient knowledge of the risks to the well-being of policemen who do this particular work. The pathways in which Working Under Cover is involved have been vetted for irresponsible risks. I think it's important to think about that. They've been vetted. The Chief Constable and the College of Attorney General have informed me that they are confident that the routes can be continued responsibly. Mr. Chairman. In order to ensure more attention to mental well-being, the Working Under Cover team appoints those experts I was just talking about, such as psychologists, who are really close to the operation and who can follow this well. So preparations for the recruitment of experts have already begun; we are not waiting for that. It might still be good for the Chamber to mention the following. Perhaps that is also an important question. Those experts will provide advice on the mental well-being of the employees in an unsolicited manner. Mrs van der Werf asked where to go with reports, where to go whistleblowers and where to ask for help. There are several counters for that. Officers with notifications can go internally, both to the internal management, i.e. the team chiefs, as well as to confidants. This can be done at different points of contact. There is also an internal police officer, who gives independent advice to the chief of police. In addition, people can of course contact the House for Whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u45	I actually have two questions on the previous point in replying to the Minister. My question was about these ongoing collusive investigations. You indicated that you have been informed that you are doing well and that you have confidence in it. At the same time, I get from your answer that the message that everything is going well comes from the Chief Constable and the Attorney General. These are, of course, also the people who have been sitting there all this time and have not said proactively: something is going on here; we need to get to work on this. So how do we, as the Chamber, know that they are going to take this and how they are going to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u46	I started my text by saying that this is a poignant debate for everyone. It is, I think, really good to emphasise that this also applies to the people involved and who are now in the middle of these improvement projects, and are also responsible for it. They do not do so lightly. So, when all these operations have been vetted for irresponsible risks, I can only rely on them and accept them, and really take note of them, that they have gone well and done so carefully. No one wants to see another such moment. We do, of course, have the Sorgblader committee, which will also follow and advise us on the improvement steps within Working under Dekmand. So it's not like we're talking about what we're gonna do, and we're gonna move on. So we have built in our safeguards for that. The inconvenience is that, in the end, it's covert operations that I don't all know and I can't discuss here in this Chamber either, because we don't want to put people in danger. My expectation is that the Sorgbrugger committee will lead us through it in that way, that we can follow what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u47	Thank you for that answer. It is, of course, somewhat unsatisfactory that you cannot carry out your controlling task entirely because you do not know exactly how it is done. Let us at least have faith in it now, but I shall return to it in my second term. My other question was about the position of the whistleblowers. You just said there are several counters where people can come in. The examples you mentioned all sound like...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u48	The one the minister mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u49	The one the minister mentioned, yes, excuse. These examples are, of course, all internal examples. Could you not think of an external possibility, precisely because this confidence in the internal organisation has been reduced by all these reports and abuses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u50	The House for Whistleblowers is not in the police organization. It's out there. So there are external options. I can very well imagine that when we get the specific opinions of the Schneiders Committee and the Sorgblader Committee, we will also discuss them here. We are still looking at how to better guarantee the improvement steps. So I suggest we take that with us. We can just put that there and ask for advice on whether these points of contact are sufficient. I totally agree with Mrs Van der Werf that as an employee you should also have the idea that you can go somewhere outside your own organisation. We can see whether the House for Whistleblowers is sufficient or whether we could do so in another way, on top of what has already been organised. At least we can pass that on to the researchers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u51	I have a follow-up question on this point. A motion by Mr Van Raak and Mr Van der Molen has been passed in the past, asking the government to launch a pilot project to support whistleblowers in the ministries and services, in the form of a special confidant. That motion has been passed. Unfortunately, nothing has happened to that yet. There is a very concrete plan in the Ministry of Justice and Security. That could really be a solution in these matters, I am assured. People with file knowledge could then be that particular confidant. There could therefore be an equal position of knowledge. And there could be direct psychosocial support. That very concrete plan is there, but too little has been done about it. So if we come back to Mrs van der Werf's questions a moment ago, can we come back to this particular point and to that adopted motion, which should actually be implemented? I think we can do that in one go. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u52	I will be informed of this particular motion, which I do not know. I will see if I can come back to that in the second term, with or without a substantive reaction or with a procedural proposal, as Mrs van der Werf did. Then we can invest it somewhere, so that we can also get good advice on how to deal with it in this complicated context. Mrs. Van der Plas asked: is there a culture of fear at Working Under Cover? The inspection report on the Specialist Operations Service shows that employees of the Working Under Cover team experience a toxic and manipulative working atmosphere. That's heavy, that's heavy, and that's absolutely unacceptable. Employees must feel safe and feel socially safe. The inspection report shows that this sphere of work has been created, among other things, by a large span or control of managers, unclear direction, lack of good psychological guidance and working in shielded islands. This is in line with the findings of the Brouwer Committee. Because the professionalism of the organisation as a whole is very poor and staff care has failed, the Chief of Staff takes urgent measures to professionalise the Team Working Under Cover. There is also a need for cultural change. There really needs to be more room for contradiction and open consultation. The new Head of Unit takes the lead in deploying this cultural change. I come back to Mrs Van der Plas' question: is there a very undesirable culture? Yes, that has emerged from the reports, and hard work is now being done to address this in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u53	I didn't quite understand. I understand the story, but at the end I understood from the minister that the team is being professionalized. But who exactly is going to professionalize that team? I suppose there'll be new people coming to professionalize that and not the old people who are in the old culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u54	There's a new unit chief. We also have, for example, the Sorgdrager committee, which then advises us on how this is going. But we are certainly not talking about who is going to be in which place. But I can tell you that in this case there is a new head of unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u55	Then I also assume that the Minister or the Ministry will ensure that the old people of the old toxic culture are not involved, because I do not think that this is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u56	That's up to the Chief of Staff and the new Chief of Unit. I'm not filling that in from this place. But in my opinion, how I see it all and read it, I also speak to many people, of course, I see that everyone takes this task, this task, very seriously. It is understood that if you have to change such a culture, then you really have to dare to change. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question in the first folder, a question from Mr Knops: to what extent is the police able to share information? I'd like to see if I've fully understood the question. He's not really impressed right now, but let me try to give him an answer. The sharing of information by the police is bound by rules. Those rules exist to ensure that sensitive information collected by the police only comes out under strict conditions. Of course, that's probably in the Police Data Act. Within these rules, there is a great deal to be done to ensure that cooperation in the security domain is possible. Of course, the extent to which this is desirable at that time must be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u57	My question was indeed asked from a slightly different context, namely: how do we ensure that policemen within the police organisation can do their job? Sometimes it seems as if it's just about rules and protocols and I know what all the things you're doing all day to put ticks on the right spot, but it's also about attitude. That was at the heart of my speech: leadership, attitude. How do you ensure that there is a good culture? Inside, the police are increasingly dealing with large flows of classified information that needs to be shared. We also have the task of ensuring that the police can work with this. My question to the Minister was: how does she look at it, against the background of what has happened here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u58	The bottom line is, of course, that all these reports show that they do not apply here: one size fits all, so in collusive operations like Working Under Cover you have to work as well as other departments and as we have ever thought of it. That may be a slightly too simple summary of all these investigations, but that is the bottom line. Then you completely ignore the sensitivities that play in such operations. So I think Mr Knops has a very good point. How do you ensure that he also asked in his speech, 'How do we not all move in the opposite direction and come up with new rules and cases?' In my view, new safeguards are particularly important, so that people who work in those operations and in those departments know: I am being taken care of and my safety and well-being is being looked out for. That really wasn't there. In there, you have to be able to do your job well. So that also requires something from us here. Indeed, we should not shoot the other way and think that we can arrange this with a new ticking list. This is a fundamental cultural change. This will also be an important part of the follow-up studies that are taking place and of the way we follow it: have we really made it possible for people to do their jobs safely, or have we only made it more complicated and complex?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u59	This answer makes me very happy. I look forward to discussing the reports that are going to come, because I think we should look at those reports with those glasses on. Just for those who have to do this difficult work, even after this terrible incident, which we hope we will learn from, I think that we should take this in a good way, not just with protocols, which are going to be an obstacle, because that will not help anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u60	I couldn't agree more. And that's where we're at. I think we should keep each other on that, too. I think this is a very valuable contribution; we will also need it in the near future. Then I have been asked by a number of Members of Parliament, including Mr Bisschop and Mrs Van der Werf, what has been looked at in the screening of the secret routes. We were just talking about that, but I will come back to it now, because it is a very important subject. Because at the same time that we are talking about it here and looking back, policemen are working in secret routes. These routes have been vetted for irresponsible risks. The feasibility of the routes and the safety and loadability of the employees concerned were examined. That's the way it was tested. It also looked at ethical or moral dilemmas that need to be taken into account in the consideration of the continuation of the pathways. The risk assessment carried out is complementary to the legal assessment. I have already said it once, but I repeat it again, because it is an inconvenience that we are all concerned with: given the confidentiality of the routes, I cannot go further in detail than this, but these are the elements that have been carefully considered about these irresponsible risks, if they had already been there. Then I have one more question and then I move on to the next folder. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Bishop had a question about the ethical aspect, specifically: why was no consent requested for the use of children? How does that work? The Committee's observations on this matter are really very painful, so that is a very fair question. The Brouwer Committee does not comment on whether or not permission has been requested for the use of children during this operation, but in any case, the findings in the report are painful enough. I agree with the committee that ethical aspects of operations need to be weighed more carefully in future. That is why I asked the committee under the chairmanship of Winnie Sorgdrager to carry out an in-depth investigation and to advise me on the design of a comprehensive system of safeguards. That is specifically about Working Under Cover and these kinds of elements, which have rightly been asked questions about. The Committee will also consider these ethical aspects and how they can be guaranteed in the decision-making process before and during the operation. So that also comes back to the Sorgblader committee. Then I'll be at the folder on the CTC, the Central Review Committee. Mrs Michon asked: what criteria are there for the Central Review Committee and how is the investigation going? She also referred to a recent article today, I believe. Under Article 140a of the Code of Criminal Law, permission from the College of Attorneys General is required in two cases, namely in the case of civil infiltration and when issuing an order for the passage of, for example, a party of drugs in the context of a criminal investigation. The designation of the prosecution also states that police infiltrations also require permission from the College of Attorneys General. The Central Review Committee is an internal advisory body of the Public Prosecutor. This committee advises the College of Attorneys General on the authorisation. The Central Review Committee does not have its own review criteria. The test criteria for the use of the powers we are talking about today are in different places in the law itself. The Sorgblader Committee is still looking specifically at the functioning of the Central Review Committee and the possibility and desirability of extending that review role. I am also waiting for the report of the Sorgblader Committee on this point, but this will really come back to that. Ms. Michon had another question about the role of the prosecutor and the well-being of the informant. She asked if there has been any rolling mix. The Brouwer Commission has investigated the facts and circumstances surrounding the deployment and suicide of the police infiltrator. The Brouwer Commission found that there was too little regard for the risks to the mental well-being of the infiltrator in this case. This was missing from the police organisation as an employer, but the Committee believes that this should also be taken into account in the consideration of the use of the product infiltration. The Committee therefore recommends setting up a comprehensive system of safeguards, in which ethical elements such as the well-being of employees and legal and organisational considerations can be considered in conjunction. Once again, the Sorgblader Committee will investigate how such a system could take shape. So I cannot go into this very specifically, but I understand that Mrs Michon's underlying question is: what does that system look like and how do you build guarantees, so that you cannot get this kind of confusion and mixing of roles, for example? At least that's how I heard the question. That is exactly what the Sorgblader Committee is now investigating. Mr Van Nispen asked: what is the situation with regard to monitoring such investigations? Are these methods sustainable? The use of special investigative powers is regulated and regulated in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The College of Attorneys-General shall decide on the authorisation of the use of certain special investigative powers. I have just mentioned this in the answers to Mrs Michon. In the ongoing revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the regulation of collusive powers and the role of the College of Attorneys General are a clear element. I know that Mr Van Nispen is also the spokesperson on that dossier, so he is also very well involved. As has already been said, the Sorgblader Committee looks further at the improvement, the working methods and the appropriate safeguards in the secretive domain. Again, for the sake of completeness, this includes the advisory role of the Central Review Committee. Mr Bishop asked: why was this operation not subject to review by the Committee on the Verification of Credentials and Immunities? Then what happened there? The operation didn't start as an infiltrator's operation. It has begun as a systematic information retrieval. So it has started in a different way and has evolved in a different way. One of the important lessons we learn from this is that we need to take care of this differently and better at the front. That is now being taken into account in the investigations that are still going on. It looks at exactly how this can be secured. Then I'm at the last folder, where a number of things are joined together. Mrs Helder and Mr Van Nispen have asked about the efforts for the next of kin. That is a very important question. The police consider the death to be a service accident. The police are currently in contact with the next of kin and expect to reach an appropriate agreement. I agree with the Members of Parliament that this should be a generous remuneration. So those conversations are going on right now. In order to obtain compensation, it is not necessary for the police to be formally held liable. Mrs van der Plas asked whether, in the context of the administrative culture we are talking about here, there should not be a body to review the quality and independence of committees set up. The Netherlands has high confidence in its official institutions, such as the police and the judiciary. This is also apparent from international studies in which the Netherlands is compared with other countries. From that perspective, I see no need to set up an external body to test the independence and quality of committees set up. In my humble opinion, that is not the discussion either, the search we have here with each other. I think we're trying to figure out what happened. A lot of inspection and committee reports help us with that. It is uncomfortable that not everything can be shared transparently, because it is about collusive operations. Then we are looking for how we can ensure that things are going well in the future. In the case of formal committees, the mandate and composition are generally public and known and the results are also publicly shared. Only in exceptional cases, such as part of what we are talking about, can we not. This really has to do with the safety of those involved. Therefore, there is always the possibility to test the results in the public debate. I think I've already answered this question. Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u61	This was your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u63	Very good. So much for the government's term. I'll see if there's any interest in a second term. That's the case. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Helder. I assume you'll be able to make it all in two minutes. I call Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u64	Mr. Chairman. I've got pretty long motions, so I'm not making my introduction too long. I have been a Member of Parliament for more than eleven years and since 2015 spokesperson police. All this time, you met the same people at the leadership of various parts and the corps leadership. I didn't see a problem there at first, but I did now. These people aren't gonna fix it. They've already misinformed the Minister twice, and so has the Chamber. They're sacrificing the next of kin. I very much welcome the strong wording of all my fellow Members here and the broad support for this debate. This brings me straight to the motions, because they have been signed by several colleagues. I thank them in advance for that. I'm just gonna start the motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the prosecutor who decided to deploy the undercover agent is the same prosecutor who carried out the fact-finding of the undercover agent's non-natural death;]] [[considers that this is completely unusual and also contrary to the conditions for an independent and objective examination;]] [[Considers that this fact-finding by this prosecutor is insufficient for the peace of mind of the next of kin, but also insufficient to draw lessons from the important work done by undercover agents;]] [[considers that there should be a new or additional investigation into the death of the undercover agent;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the independence and cleanliness of this investigation are better guaranteed and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1056]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u65	Mr. Chairman. Let us not forget the sad occasion for this debate. The next of kin must be generously compensated. It'll never be enough, but I think it's really abject that the police claim to be morally responsible, but not legally. That's why there's a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in its report, the Brouwer Committee concluded that there is a relationship between the death of the infiltrator and his work and calls this a "hard but inevitable conclusion";]] [[noting that the police have confirmed that the conclusions and recommendations of the Brouwer Commission are fully adopted;]] [[noting that the police have nevertheless indicated to the survivors that they are moral but not legally liable for the death of the infiltrator (undercover agent);]] [[considers that this conclusion is contrary to the findings of the Brouwer Committee;]] [[also considers that this is a huge sacrifice of the next of kin and posthumously also of the deceased infiltrator;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to recognise the police's liability for the death of the infiltrator in order to prevent or prevent one or more possible years of legal proceedings;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Helder, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Michon-Derkzen, Mr Van der Werf, Mr Bishop and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1057]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u66	Fortunately, the motion has a majority, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Michon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u68	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the clear answers. Thank you also for sharing the criticism that is and is working on it from left to right in the Chamber. I have that confidence. I am still very puzzled about the role of the College and the role of the Central Review Committee, the CTC. I also agree with Mr Knops of the CDA, who said that we should not be in a cramp now in which we ask for new rules, make us big and create bureaucracy. At the same time, you see in the debate that these operations are actually so secret and that we cannot talk so much about them, and that is quite rightly what I want to know if these guarantees are good. The point is that you lay down rules within which you can go about your business, while you still have the confidence that it's okay. In that the Minister has not entirely reassured me with her answers. She talks about criteria of the CTC, but I can only conclude that since 2014 there have been no criteria in the indications, internal rules, of the Public Prosecutor. Then where did they go? I also referred to Mrs Naber's article in the NJB today, which says that it is precisely those criteria that are needed; they need to be public, so that we know where we stand. So I would like to see this procedure better laid down by law. I also want that CTC no longer only consists of a delegation of police and justice, but is more broadly constituted, with, for example, a lawyer and a psychologist in it. The Brouwer Committee has also recommended this. Prior authorisation remains necessary, but my proposal would be to reconfirm it every three months. Hence the next motions. I understand that the Sorgblader committee is working on a comprehensive system of safeguards. Perhaps my motions can serve as inspiration. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the use of undercover powers can make an important contribution to tackling organised crime and resolving cold cases;]] [[Whereas infiltration is the heaviest undercover variant with many risks and dangers for undercover agents;]] [[Whereas the legislator has built in additional safeguards before the power of infiltration can be used, including the approval of the College of Attorney General and a prior opinion by the Central Review Committee;]] [[Considering that the criteria on which the CTC reviews and bases its opinions were included in the OM designation Investigative powers, but that those criteria have not been included in this designation since 2014;]] [[Whereas it is essential that the procedure is carefully carried out prior to and during infiltration and that proportionality, subsidiarity and risk of impairment are carefully assessed;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the legal basis for the use of undercover infiltration in Article 126h, so that the CTC review criteria can be established by general measure of governance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Van der Werf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1059]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u69	I'm afraid to look at the chairman, so I'll move on quickly with my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of undercover agents represents a possible long-term and profound violation of the privacy of suspects and of undercover agents;]] [[noting that prior to the deployment of undercover agents, the Central Review Committee advises the College of pg on the deployment of the infiltration authority;]] [[noting that the CTC consists only of members of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the College of Attorneys General, to extend the CTC to include, for example, judges or judges' alternates, psychologists or lawyers, in order to ensure multidisciplinary involvement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Michon-Derkzen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1058]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u70	Thank you to the Minister for her clear and timely answers this evening. I also noticed that we had a very united Chamber here. That has been different in this committee, too, so let's hold on to this. We have, of course, repeatedly seen critical reports with very serious conclusions. I think there is still a long way to go if we really want this culture change. It's not gonna come on its own. I think it is a good thing that we, as a Chamber, can keep a finger on the wrist. This debate also showed how difficult it is to actually get a grip on it and to act on it. That's why I'd like to table the next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the investigations carried out by KPMG, the Justice and Security Inspectorate and the Brewers' Commission, among others, give rise to structural change in both the organisation and the culture within the National Unity;]] [[noting that the Lower House has limited insight into what is happening within the National Unity, which hinders the exercise of its controlling task;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the progress of the reforms in the National Unit is structurally monitored by independent experts, and that this reporting is standard part of the police half-yearly reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Werf, Helder, Michon-Derkzen and Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1060]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No one at all wanted what happened to you to happen. It's a disaster! In this respect, of course, it has not been a major political debate either. And yet I thought it was a bit of an uncomfortable debate. This was not due to the Minister's reply, but, of course, first of all to the reason for this debate: this very sad event. But it was also a bit of a debate, because it concerns secret organisations. It's precisely because of that secret character that we can't control things properly. That's what the first motion is about. I have one motion, Mr. Chairman, and then three more questions. That's the way to put it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that questions are being asked by both the Brouwer Commission, the Justice and Security Inspectorate and the police unions about the action of the Rijksccherche;]] [[noting that there are fewer opportunities for public accountability over what has taken place in cases where secrecy and covert work play a major role;]] [[Whereas it must be beyond any doubt that the National Criminal Court has integrity, independence and good functioning;]] [[calls on the Government to assess the role of the National Criminal Court in a broad sense, taking into account in any case how the supervision of the investigation can be better and more transparent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen and Helder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1061]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u72	Then I have a question about the Central Review Committee. I understand the Minister in such a way that the Sorgblader committee is still in the process and that is why I cannot yet get an idea of how it should change and what it will become in the future. But could that become something like a standing committee that can keep an eye on how things are going? Will incidents and operational, strategic and ethical dilemmas be presented there? Is that a bit of the direction that the Central Review Committee could take? Is that option being specifically examined? In an interruption I asked a question about the pilot with that particular confidant. There's already an accepted chamber motion about that. I don't blame the Minister at all for not having that sharp. I did not, but I was made aware that this might be very helpful in these matters. I would therefore welcome the Minister's very serious involvement in the options being explored. My final question, Mr President. I understand that in the past the starting point was that infiltration was only intended for short-term projects. That is no longer the case. So either I'm wrong and there's never been that point of departure or that point of departure has been abandoned in the past. This seems to be an explicit case of long-term infiltration. Since when is that the case? I'm curious about that, because they're natural whole, very, very profound detection methods. The question remains whether it is not too far-reaching, precisely because we must be able to guarantee the safety of those who do this important work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u73	Thank you. Mr. Knops of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. Earlier, unisono has already rejected what has happened here and the grief that has been caused by it. As a result of the interruption I have committed, I have the need to stress that, when I read the reports that we have been informed and received for information, I feel that we should not neglect that cultural aspect and that leadership aspect. It cannot hide the fact that everything you do with procedures is not yet a guarantee that it will go well. That's why I said before that it's about attitude, because you have to act when you see things go wrong. It's about attitude, about seeing things go wrong and acting on them. This requires something from people in a highly professional organisation, who have to work under great pressure. I therefore welcome the conclusion of the Brouwer Committee that you need to organise this type of organisation in a completely different way, not like other police organisations. But that alone is not enough. In the reports that we are still receiving, which are still going to be discussed and on which we are going to have the debate, I would like to take that aspect with emphasis. It's fine that there are guarantees, but remember that it should remain workable. Also focus on the softer factors rather than just the hard rules. That's got to come from the lead. I welcome the Minister's commitment to look at the reports with those glasses. That's how I'm gonna study that report when it reaches the Chamber. So I don't have a motion because I want to wait and see those reports. to see what exactly we can do with this and what we may or may not need to do with it in order to prevent it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u75	Thank you. Then Mrs Simons from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u76	Thank you. I would just like to refer to what has already been said a few times here by fellow chamber members, namely that it was so nice to see a Chamber today that is virtually unanimous in its rejection of what has happened, in what we are discussing here today. I would like to ask the same Members of the House whether they would like to express this solidarity when we discuss the same abuses in the police with perhaps other victims. Because the fact that something went wrong in this case is not on its own. It's part of a pattern. It's part of a culture. Fortunately, that has already been appointed by many today: things are not going well within our police force. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent investigations and revelations within some departments of the National Unity conclude that there is, among other things, lack of direction, lack of leadership, boyfriendliness and discouragement from discussing bottlenecks and dilemmas;]] [[whereas the police should be a safe organisation for everyone, for both employees and citizens on the streets, and such deficiencies within managerial positions make a negative contribution to this;]] [[considers that the organisation as a whole can benefit from an organisation-wide investigation of such deficiencies;]] [[calls on the Government to launch similar investigations within the entire police organisation and to share the findings with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1062]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u78	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group. She is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Helder for asking for this debate. If it wasn't for her, we wouldn't be here tonight. Very important. Thanks also to the Minister for the answers she has given briefly and clearly. And I hope the cop's next of kin got something out of it, even if it was just that they feel recognition and appreciation for their loved one. Let's talk about the committee of inquiry. There is great confidence in the institutions, I understood that that is very nice, but that trust must also be preserved in my view. That is why I have tabled a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the integrity of the government's committees of inquiry is crucial;]] [[Whereas doubts about this integrity undermine public confidence;]] [[calls on the Government to ask an external body to deliver an opinion on the integrity of the members of such a committee of inquiry when it appoints committees of inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1063]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u80	Finally. Attention to the mental health of the police officers is crucial. As we see and have heard in conversations with police forces, there is a great deal of attention in the training, but it flattens during work and is still not given enough attention. It is, of course, important that attention should be paid to this during work. That's why I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that mental health and resilience are crucial for the safe functioning of agents;]] [[Whereas mental health and resilience are less often brought to the attention of police officers after police training, especially when the pressure on agents increases;]] [[Calls on the Minister to consult with trade unions, corps management and police training to consider how mental health and resilience can be regularly brought to the attention of an agent's career;]] [[invites the Minister to inform the Chamber of the outcome of these consultations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-1064]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u82	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend until 8:10 and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u83	The Minister has the floor. I assume we'll be outside in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u84	I think so, Mr. Chairman. I'll go straight to the motions without a long introduction. Mr. Knops, Mrs. Helder and I will make it a quick debate. I'll start with the motion in part No. 1056 by Mrs Helder and others. I have an interpretation to give. I hope that the authors will agree with that interpretation. The investigation of the National Criminal Court focused solely on determining the cause of death. The College of Attorneys General has assured me that they are responsible for the reliability of the State's investigation into the cause of death. That has already been said, but I will give my lecture so that Mrs Helder can check whether she agrees. In the opinion of the College, the investigation leaves no doubt as to the conclusion that there is suicide. For me, that conclusion of the investigation is a fact. I'm relying on the verdict of the college. I have said before that I agree with Mrs Helder and her colleagues that in future we must avoid any form of bias in this type of investigation. That's what I'm talking to the D.A. about. The facts and circumstances of the suicide have been thoroughly investigated by the committee led by an independent chairman: Mr Oebele Brouwer. The committee's report is unambiguous. In this sense, there is no need for further investigation into the facts and circumstances. But if I can read the intention of the motion, so the motion, in such a way that it means that I am going to talk to the prosecution to see how in the future any appearance of bias can be avoided, then I can go along with it. If the proposers mean otherwise, then the motion becomes difficult to enforce. Maybe I should add to that why it is. If I'm literally executing the motion, that means, in fact, that I have to give a lead to the D.A.'s office. Mrs Helder knows much better than I do that this is undesirable and not common for many reasons. I don't think that's happened for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u85	Having the same prosecutor do both investigations is not common either. I understand that a whole new investigation is indeed difficult, but that does not mean that we should leave it that way and that in future we will see how we can prevent this from happening. That's when a hole keeps falling. I have requested this debate, partly for the sake of peace of mind for the next of kin. I still think that additional research is very important. It's not in the operative part. The recital states: new or additional research. I would like to delete that 'new', but the operative part remains as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u86	It is then about the investigation in the operative part. That's what makes it difficult. That's why I have to dissuade the motion. I hear what Mrs Helder is saying, so let me give it one last thought. I really understand what she's looking for. If she eventually turns it into a "future investigation," I'd like to get to work on it and then I'll get back to you. In any case, I have a short-term meeting with the D.A., so whatever happens to the motion: Mrs Helder, and the rest of the Chamber, will be told what my conversation with the D.A. was like and how we're going to prevent this from happening in the future. I understand what she's looking for, but if it's specifically about this investigation, I have to discourage the motion based on the reasons I just mentioned. Then there is Mrs Helder's second motion and a few colleagues...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u87	Mrs Michon would like to say a few words about this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u88	I hear what the minister is saying, and I understand her struggle, but we received a letter yesterday explaining the role of the officer. There are developments now, especially in this investigation. Can't you...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u89	Can't the minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u90	Can the Minister not write a follow-up letter to yesterday's letter on how to proceed in the investigation into this particular case? Because yesterday's letter calls for a sequel. How's it going now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u91	Something's coming up. Yesterday's letter was not about that, but that is one aspect. Of course, Mr Oebele, the independent president, did not specifically investigate the cause of death, but he did investigate the context, the circumstances and the facts surrounding the suicide. I really have no reason to say that the initial examination of cause of death was not objective. I did say in my introductory text that you should avoid any appearance of bias. That's why I understand why we're having this conversation right now, and that's why I'm having this conversation with the D.A.'s office. I will ask that this be changed in the future, because this is sensitive and intense. I hope that we will not have this kind of thing anymore, but I do want it to be handled carefully and differently. But that's a conversation about the future. I also have to deal with Mr Oebele Brouwer's investigation, which shows that we can move forward with these findings. So that's what I'm stuck on specifically with this motion. The motion in part No. 1057, also by Mrs Helder, and a number of colleagues, I can give a ruling to the Chamber. The motion calls on the government to make maximum efforts to recognise the police's liability for the death of the infiltrator, the undercover agent, in order to avoid possible years of legal proceedings and future misery. I'll give the motion judgment Chamber, because it's also my full commitment. I also know that the police regard death as a service accident and are in conversation. I interpret this motion as a call for appropriate and generous compensation, as I indicated in my first term. This is important to me, and I will see to it from the point of view of my role. The rest I actually said in the first term, so judge Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 1058 by Mrs Michon and Mrs Van der Werf. He's gonna get judgment, Room. The motion calls on the government to clarify the legal basis for the use of undercover infiltration in Article 126h. These are elements that... aren't I saying it right? Oh, this is the motion in part No. 1059? Excuse me. Do you want me to finish this answer? Then I'll do the motions the other way around. Thanks for the correction. The motion looks at elements that are still being examined by the Sorgblader Committee, as the author also pointed out. I interpret the motion in such a way that I have to pass the elements on to the committee to indicate that it is a clear signal that this is alive. Then I am in favour of the motion, which is part No. 1059 has and with you piece No. 1058.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u92	I do not want to interrupt this debate, but I actually expected the Minister to say: hold this motion. Because if we take the work of the committee seriously now, then it is more convenient to send out that signal with a motion that has been held. Then we can leave the committee free to do its job. I am therefore a little confused about what I now have to do with this motion after the Minister's ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u93	Detention would certainly have been an option. I understand the intention here. I fully agree with Mr Knops that the committee should be free to carry out the investigation and make the recommendations with this motion, whether it has been held or adopted. But that's how I interpret the motion. I do not interpret her in such a way that the proposers say: at least this has to come back and this is how we demand it. They say: these are important elements. It is a good thing that Mr Knops says to me: just name how you interpret it. I interpret it as elements that can come back to it. I am going to pass them on to the committee, but I do not think we are going to tell a committee what the results should be. Never. That would therefore apply to the next motion. That's the motion in part No. 1058 on your list, Chairman. It asks the government, in consultation with the College of Attorneys General, to extend the Central Review Committee to include, for example, judges, psychologists and lawyers to ensure multidisciplinary involvement. I give the motion for a resolution to the House, with the same remark that Mr Knops has just made and which I am now referring to. I'll direct this to the Sorgblader committee. So we are going to carry this forward, but we are not going to get in the way of the committee and do not prescribe what is to be done with it. We consider it a signal from the Chamber. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 1060.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u94	Mrs. Michon first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u95	I can support the Minister's line, because I can imagine that the cabinet will come up with a response to the advice of the Sorgblader committee. If the committee does not come forward, can the cabinet at least respond to the wishes of these motions? Again, if it's not already in Sorgblader's own report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u96	Maybe we can take it one step at a time. I will pass it on as elements that are at least taken into account. Then we'll see what the Sorgblader committee comes up with. If I say any more about this now, then perhaps I will get in the way of the committee, and I do not have to. So I guided it through as elements that can be weighed. The motion in part No. 1060 by Mrs Van der Werf, the government calls on experts to monitor the progress of reforms in the National Unity. He's gonna get judgment, Room. In his motion, Mr Van Nispen asks for item No. 1061 to an overall evaluation of the role of the National Criminal Court. I advise against that, because I really have no reason to doubt the role of the Rijkscrimony and the reliability of its operation. The National Police Department is conducting its investigation on behalf of the State's Attorney's Office. The D.A.'s office is also in charge of the investigations. When it comes to criminal investigations by the National Criminal Court, the judge also checks their legality. So there's really a test in it. In my view, this is an adequate way of regulating supervision. An evaluation on top of the judge's assessment of its legality seems to me to be too much and not necessary. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u97	I understand what the Minister is saying. The motion is not meant to be read in the sense of: there is mistrust and nothing good from the Reichsrechterche. If that's how the Minister understands the motion, then I've put it awkwardly. But I would ask the Minister to look at that second observation, that second paragraph. Because it is in this kind of thing, precisely when it comes to secrecy, there is also a bit of my discomfort with this debate, which is very difficult to monitor precisely what has happened, precisely because of its secret and confidential nature. I would like to understand that, and yet I find it uncomfortable that we are left with this conclusion and with this supervision. The purpose of this motion is therefore to look more closely at how we can better and more transparently shape its independence in the future. That's actually what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u98	I understand that search. Maybe we can... "We" can't do anything, but I'd like to consider the following. I do not think that the wording of this motion is entirely Mr Van Nispen's intention, but I must advise against the motion. Perhaps we can say that we have this subject... A number of reports are still coming, such as from the Sorgblader committee but also the intermediate reports and the final reports of the Schneiders committee. Maybe we can see what comes out of it. The moment Mr Van Nispen says 'but I still have doubts about this; I do not agree with this, because I think we can do otherwise, otherwise we have to'. Of course, that option is there; we get opinions and recommendations from committees, but then it is up to us here how we deal with it. Sorgblader will also look at these elements and advise us on them. Then I would say: dissuade, but if I may advise: rather hold on or actually withdraw. Because the wording does not quite fit in with what Mr Van Nispen is looking for. Let's see what Sorgbearer comes up with and discuss it. Then, of course, there is every freedom to submit motions again. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 1062 by Mrs Simons. It asks whether we can also conduct similar investigations within the entire police organisation. I advise against this motion. The National Unity was very specific, but I see no reason to do so for the entire police. I'm with the police, too. So I'm going to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u99	It is a little too far-reaching to mention in this particular debate, with this sad occasion, all the wrongs that we have experienced lately from the National Unity, but I am a little surprised to hear the Minister say that she sees no reason to look at this organization again. In recent years, I should like to say that we have received a bunch of reports about failing leadership and moments in which no action was taken in the event of misconduct. I do not really want to mention it all, but I can hardly imagine this minister saying: I would rather take the risk that there is something going on than that I will investigate preventively on the basis of the fact that there are clear signals within different divisions and departments of the police and that there are even investigations in progress. I would say: why is this minister not taking it for granted and why is she not taking this sad occasion as a moment to ensure that we can start with a safe police organisation, both for those who work in it and for those who are confronted with it on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u100	I think we should pull two things apart. I sympathize with Mrs Simons, too. We can also discuss this in the Police Committee debate next week. Maybe it's easier to think about this more extensively. Mrs Simons' speech also contained something that I do not fully agree with. I have a lot of faith in our police organization, and I'm in front of all those cops, too. At the same time, it is a very large organisation with tens of thousands of employees and there are also abuses. Mrs Simons just said in her interruption to me that investigations are already taking place when there are abuses. There are already safeguards and there are also tests. When things happen that aren't supposed to happen, we investigate them and look at them. Then we also make sure that we do everything we can to prevent it from happening again. So it's not like I'm saying we should never look at other abuses. I'm just saying that it was so specific with the National Unity. It is a very specific study, and it also reveals why it is so specifically necessary. That is not what Mrs Simons said, but it feels like a kind of general motion of censure towards the police organisation if you say: then in its entirety, because it does not work. Again, that is not what Mrs Simons said, but that is really not what I would like to say. So I do not see any specific reason to say what the motion asks, namely 'in its entirety'. But to parts where things don't go well, where incidents take place or wider than that, always need to be investigated because the police organization, like any other organization, is and must be a learning organization to provide security for all those women and men who go out every day for your and my safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u101	I am going to use the next few minutes to think about what I am doing with the motion, because we are indeed going to have a debate soon. Then I may be able to retable the motion. I am disappointed, however, that we are always waiting for abuses to occur, to carry out retrospective investigations and to see how we can do better in future. I think that with such an investigation, if that is not interpreted as a motion of censure but rather as a small incentive for improvement, we might be able to solve things in the front before they happen. Because when things happen, when things go wrong with such an organisation, the consequences are often so severe that it is a pity that we have waited, when we might have been able to take action on the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u102	I couldn't agree more. Perhaps we can discuss all the issues and elements that the police themselves put on the agenda together during the committee debate and the follow-up debates. The police act to say: we see what is happening, what is changing in society and what kind of learning organisation we are, so these are our improvement projects. So I do not have the impression that the Lower House, the Cabinet or the police are waiting for abuses and then setting up all kinds of committees or conducting investigations. The police are a learning organization. My quest is every time, now and then as a MP, how we can stand next to the agents and help them in their search. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1063 by Mrs Van der Plas. It requests that an external body be asked to give its opinion on members of a committee of inquiry. I don't recommend that motion. As I have indicated, this is a formal committee. It's been public a lot. The attitude is clear. Often external, independent committees investigate something. It may become a little too complicated to put an independent supervisor on top of an external, independent committee. That is too complicated, let me put it this way. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mrs van der Plas then had another motion, namely that on item No. 1064. This calls for consultations with the corps leadership, unions and police education on how to support mental well-being and mental health during the career. We will. I'm giving this motion judgment room. I would like to take the motion with me in support of the policy and as an additional push to keep doing this above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u103	If I can get a commitment from the Minister, that's fine with me. Then I don't need to make a special motion on that. We're in the Chamber trying to contain the motion diarrhea. If the Minister makes a commitment that she will eventually inform the Chamber about this...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u104	Is this about the motion in part No. 1064, the last one?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u106	Yes, of course, this is what we do. In the six-month reports, I will take with me what this looks like and what it is like in a broader sense, because that is how I read the motion. It's wider. We need to keep paying attention to this in different places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u107	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u108	If there is that commitment and we are informed about it, then I would like to withdraw the motion. That's gonna save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u109	Since the Van der Plas motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u110	In the context of the domestic communications, I say, after consulting my co-subscriber, that we shall vote on the motion for a resolution. I'd like to hold 1061.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u111	At the request of Mr Van Nispen, I propose his motion (29628, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u112	Are there any more household announcements? Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u113	Yes, because I am pleased to say that the motion in part No. 1057 is co-signed by Mrs Kathmann of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u114	We shall then add the name of Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u115	I have two further questions from Mr Van Nispen. Then I'll be done, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Van der Werf spoke about the whistleblowers and the motion that was brought to the attention. I propose that I take that motion and see if we can get back to it in the committee debate next week. Otherwise, I will also take this with me in the broader context of what I have promised towards Mrs Van der Werf. I therefore hope that next week, at least, I will be able to discuss how we proceed in the committee debate. But that motion is now, of course, being taken up by the officials. They're looking at how we can get to work with that. Was not intended for shorter routes, Mr Van Nispen asked. It is not the case that infiltration routes should be of short duration. That's not necessary. The College of Attorneys General must agree to a decision to extend an infiltration route every three months. It will always assess proportionality, subsidiarity and necessity of the infiltration pathway. This too is an aspect which is taken into account by the Sorgblader committee. It will look at how that has been built up and whether that is also the most wise way of shaping it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u116	Very good. Thank you to the Minister for her first really big debate here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-25.u117	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. I would like to thank all those present and all those who took part in the debate. I shall close the sitting on 8 February 2022.
