ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. A warm word of welcome to both ministers. I'm glad you're with us, that you've found another opportunity to be here. We have 17 speakers from the Chamber. I propose to allow four interruptions per person in the term of the Chamber. Otherwise it will be real night work and you have already extended your speaking time to no less than six minutes. Anyway, this is how we're gonna do it. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Tielen from the VVD group. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to begin this corona debate with a brief tribute to science. Thanks to science, people at home got to know the virus, via briefings and TV performances. Thanks to science, we know the impact of the virus and its policies, and science allows us to fight it. As far as my group is concerned, it is not to be underestimated how important it is that there are curious, smart and competent scientists who do their work in laboratories and lecture halls, in hospitals and in the streets. It is not without reason that in February 2020 the cabinet brought together scientists to ask them to bring together all the scarce knowledge about corona, to weigh and, above all, to deliver an opinion from it, a scientifically-based advice that must then be weighed by the Minister of VWS in relation to practical considerations and feasibility, so that it can lead to a democratic decision in this Chamber. In doing so, it is very important that responsibilities are clearly invested and that there is transparency about how they are applied by the various stakeholders. That is, after all, the basis for policy and compliance in our open society. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that my group has some critical questions after the news about the action between the Ministry and OMT. We received a letter this morning and yes, I found the Minister's answers somewhat understandable, but I also understand that there are still many questions. I believe that there have been agreements made by this Chamber to discuss this with each other, including on the basis of the Wob requests, but also the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to be more clear about Mrs Tielen, though. The most winged pronunciation from the corona crisis is of course "we follow the OMT." It now appears that the OMT first sent its opinions to VWS and that the opinions were often modified. Often this was also content, especially when it comes to protective equipment. That has had great consequences in the nursing homes. The OVV also points out this. Of course you can't. That's what's affecting our trust. I would like to know from the VVD how she feels about that feeling that I have very strong. My confidence in those independent OMT opinions has been greatly compromised. I would like to make this clear from Mrs Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs Agema is quite right in saying that our entire society is based on trust and that transparency is in the interests of transparency. How do things come about? How are they shared? Who has what responsibility in that? How roll-resistant are they in there? I, too, looked at the news reports last Friday and thought: what about that transparency and what about that roll resistance? So I have questions about that. I read the letter about it this morning. It'll make it a little clearer to me. My trust is not immediately gone, but I agree with Mrs Agema that we need to know for sure what was actually going on, including in the context of time. Was it an incident or was it a pattern? Those things are all important in order to be able to measure the extent to which we really must feel affected in our trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	We're pretty sure it was a pattern. We are already sure that those OMT opinions were modified in substance by VWS. That's what we've been able to see in the reportage of Nieuwsuur. We've already received four modified OMT recommendations in that investigation of Nieuwsuur. The most striking aspect is, of course, the issue of protective equipment. The advice was adapted at a time when there was scarcity, and there was no mention of scarcity. It was told on the workplace that this was not really necessary in less risky patients. That's bad; people died. In the nursing homes, people with long covid died, 13 nursing home workers. So I'd like to know from you what happened to your confidence, now that it's been proven that those advices have been modified, there were at least four of them on this kind of crucial points. How does Mrs Tielen feel about the VVD? What does that do with her confidence in the OMT recommendations and in the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs Tielen has a lot of questions. When I read the Minister's letter, I see that, above all, clarification advice has been given from the Ministry on the OMT's letters. It can be; it can be different. I have a lot of questions. I'm not ready at all and I'm not ready. It doesn't feel like I'm ready to come to that conclusion. So that's my answer, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	We have, of course, seen that shocking letter about the OMT recommendation. But besides, of course, we already had a lot of things. We had the registration fraud, PCR tests that didn't work, mouth caps that didn't work one minute and then suddenly they did, vaccination damage that wasn't reported properly, the impact on children that weren't told. And now we have something else: civil servants who are violating fundamental rights. Let me read it to you. It is about democratic legitimacy and the restriction of fundamental rights. "The point is, of course, that we also implicitly admit that the emergency regulations lack democratic legitimacy and are a shaky basis for fundamental rights restrictions. But we don't say that; we'll figure something out." What does the VVD think of this incredibly strange way of acting of officials who are tricking the people under the responsibility of the VWS Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Our whole society is based on trust. This is even more important in a crisis than at any other time in time. I find it truly difficult to highlight quotes and, on that basis, to ask the very big question of trust or to cast a total suspicion. I don't think that's fair. I think it's important to put a lot of things together, look for patterns in them, see if they are there or not, and what patterns they are. We must also weigh them in the context of the times in which they play. So my response to Mr Van Haga's question is: I do not think that this is so much, other than that this is an important question in the overall evaluation, in looking at how things went, who took what role and what went well and what did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'm only reading one thing. We've got stacks of Wob documents and it's unbelievable what kind of pattern you're talking about is a pattern that comes out of it, under the responsibility of the US Secretary of State. Then it is a bit too short to say: well, we have to take a good look at that. I would like you to say: "I am shocked. There must be an excuse and there must be a plausible explanation for it, because that context must be outlined." There hasn't been a start of an apology. In addition to the whole mischief that we have seen in the last two years, which has put our entire people in prison for two years. Then there's something more we can do, isn't there? Trust is absolutely gone, as far as I'm concerned. I would say, "Well, the VVD is concerned. The VVD likes to hear from the minister." That's what I expected, but not: yeah, whatever. So I really think this is a very lazy answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	What Mr. Van Haga calls too short a turn, I find the other way around wise. I have just come from one of the closed preliminary talks of the Parliamentary survey on the extraction of natural gas in Groningen. I can tell you that every quote takes time and an assessment. So you can't say with one quote "so it's all wrong; it's a pattern of... " and so on. I'm critical. That's what I said. I said it's important that there's trust. For this, it is important that there is transparency and that there are responsibilities on a roll. It is up to us as a chamber to consider it well and to study it carefully. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to read the OVV report part one yet. There will also be an OVV report part 2 and a number of Wob requests. That's what we need to talk about. I'm not ready to draw a conclusion on that. Mr Van Haga disagrees, but he will soon have his own contribution to draw his own conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally. I requested a debate on this yesterday. Mr Omtzig has requested a debate on the same subject or an ordinary debate on the same subject. If we study it carefully and if the VVD can perhaps come to the same conclusion as BVNL after study, why doesn't the VVD support such a debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	Because the VVD did not even have a response to the requests. In my view, it has been agreed to hold a debate together on the OVV report which has been published this morning and which has more than 50 pages and the Wob requests we have. That's what I said later. Mr. Van Haga knows me as a critical MP. The VVD is always willing to go through that critically. It's just not fair to jump to conclusions right now. That is not fair to ourselves, not fair to the people involved and ultimately not fair to the content, which is important for the people in this country and for the trust that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	At the same time, Mrs Tielen refers to the Minister's words regarding the so-called "clearing questions" that the Ministry would put to the OMT on the OMT opinions. I'd like to save one. I would like to know from Mrs Tielen whether she thinks that is a clear question. From the Ministry, the OMT is requested to include literally in the text that the use of personal protective equipment is not necessary in patients who have no suspicion of COVID-19, given the persistent scarcity. The direct request is therefore to include such a sentence in the OMT opinion. In fact, the request is to include that phrase not only in the OMT opinion, but also in the RIVM itself's guidelines. That includes spelling error after that. So that is not something that is proposed from science, but what is requested from the Ministry. Does Mrs Tielen still think it is about asking enlightening questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Hijink started his interruption with "Mrs. Tielen is hacking." I think I did a little less. I mentioned the letter as I received it. I indicated that I am critical and that I am also looking for what incidents are and what is a pattern. The example that Mr. Hijink cites and that we have also been able to see in the news is not necessarily the first thing I expect of clarification. It is also a question for the Minister to say a little more than he did in his letter. Again, I sincerely believe that we should look more closely at what some quotes and some moments look like in total. Are there any patterns? What patterns are those? What's good and what's not good? We have to move towards a conclusion on this with each other. We should not do that on the basis of a few outcomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	I will make it clear why the SP is so angry about this point. I looked it back. That is because from the first time we talked about the corona virus in this room, during the very first debate on 5 March 2020, we asked for adequate protective equipment to be provided in nursing homes. The coalition voted off that motion at the time. That was in the very first debate. After that, we have repeatedly asked: provide sufficient protective equipment in the nursing homes, because things are going completely wrong there. If I now read in the documents that the Ministry has put pressure on the OMT and on the RIVM guidelines not to do so, I am just pissed off about that. I want to hear more from the VVD than: we need to see it in context and see if it's an incident or a pattern. This is just outrageous, isn't it? I don't understand why the VVD isn't as pissed off as we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	I feel very well what Mr. Hijink says. I agree with him very much. Again, when I saw these messages on my cell phone on Friday, it made me very critical. Why? Again, because it is extremely important that we can have confidence in the institutions of a cabinet and of science, and in the advice, especially in crisis time. I am also genuinely critical of what happened there. Are there any patterns? What is the responsibility of whom? Is it transparent? That sort of thing. But I just can't draw a definitive conclusion right now. I can tell Mr Hijink that I am critical of this and I would also like to know what the Minister thinks about it. Maybe we should, in addition to the OVV report that's there, where I don't think this is going to be dealt with, but I haven't read the report yet, and besides the Wob requests that are there, see if there's any more specific research to be done on this. I don't know; it could be. I feel very well what Mr Hijink says. But I am just not ready for the conclusions that Mr Hijink would like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	Finally. Last weekend, on the initiative of Mrs Agema, we asked the Ministry to make public all the moments when the Ministry put pressure on the OMT to amend the OMT opinion on certain points. Make that public. The Minister chooses to write that also in his letter "Don't do that." We also see in the documents that have arrived at Nieuwsuur via a Wob request that large pieces of them have been blacked out. We must not know about modifications that have apparently been proposed by the Ministry. News hours can't know that, people can't know that. Does the VVD, like the SP, think it is crucial, precisely because this is about trust, that the minister should be as transparent as possible and make as much public as possible when it comes to: at what point did the Ministry want to change what points in the OMT opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	The short answer would be 'yes', because I mentioned transparency myself about ten times in the interruptions just now, because that is also important for confidence. I believe that we also have agreements in this country about how you deal with confidential information and how you share it. My question to the Minister is therefore: explain what is in that letter on this issue. And again, I was just saying that in the first interruption in response to your remark, perhaps we should ask for some extra research, precisely to understand what is going on and in what context things have been done, so that we can judge properly: do we agree or do we not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mrs Tielen began her speech by saying: I would like to offer an ode to science. I wonder whether Mrs Tielen is not ashamed of that. Because with that science, and I do not denounce the science, for example, it was said in the summer that if people were to take a vaccine, they would be immune. This science, RIVM, said on Twitter on 28 January: the virus does not seem to be so contagious and it does not appear that it is transmitted from human to human. With that science, paramedics in ambulances went to pick up severely ill patients from nursing homes, without protection, without mouth caps and without any form of anything. A lot of those people have been at home sick for two years now. They have to fight for a fee. So my first question is: are you not ashamed to speak of an ode to science? Wouldn't it have been better to start with: I bring an ode to all those people who have suffered under these two years, in which measures have been taken based on that so-called science? Measures that may not always have been good, which have led to psychological distress, illness or death for a lot of people. Old people who died alone in a nursing home, thanks to that science at first. That was said on January 28th. On the same date, the cabinet puts covid on the A list. Same date. What kind of science do you bring an ode to now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	I would like to ask two questions back to Mrs Van der Plas. Point 1. Will you repeat this question at the end of my speech? Point 2. Where do you think we were without science now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	Well, I don't consider that an interruption. I'm just asking a very specific question and I'm getting two questions back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	They were rhetorical questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	So I just want an answer to the question I just asked. And perhaps I will come back to the other questions that Mrs Tielen asks later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	No, that's the answer. I'm not ashamed of the ode to science. Mr. Chairman. Looks like the end of the health crisis is in sight. According to the old Dutch saying "the horse smells its stable" there seems to be a great urge to add an extra tooth to the relaxations. That's good, because we can make plans again. We can throw parties again. We can look forward to spring days and summer again. We can get back to normal. Responsible choices are part of the desired sense of freedom. The VVD is positive about the way this cabinet takes responsibility for those choices. I do not have so many questions about the measures announced yesterday. However, I would like to know how the Netherlands now relates to other countries in the European Union and I have a number of questions in preparation for the long-term policy we are discussing with the Minister in March. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the content: thank you. Thank you to all the people in the Netherlands who have made sure that we are where we are today. Those who have been vaccinated, have been tested. They stayed home when they seemed to have corona or tested positive. Those who studied the virus and the measures and contributed to it. These creative solutions invented to serve their customers within all restrictions, whether with warm mulled wine or with a takeaway box to eat at home. Those sports classes outside in the park organized or organized a drive-in disco to keep the energy in. Thanks to everyone in the Netherlands who did. And thanks to the people who provided care, manned test streets, informed about vaccinations and stabbing. It is insufferable how these hardworking employees are intimidated and threatened. It is impossible for practices to be described, set on fire and destroyed. I understand that the regulation provides for the possibility of punishing threats and intimidation of, for example, GGD employees as severely as is the case with other aid workers. Can the Minister confirm that? And to what extent is it now clear, for example, for GD staff, where to report them, where to report them? Does the Minister do everything in his power to track down and prosecute destroyers and behaviors? I'd like a commitment. Then there are my questions. To what extent are the measures in the Netherlands now comparable to those in other European countries? Can Dutch people also travel elsewhere in Europe without a QR pass? What about 2G and 3G in other countries and what effect does that have? Is the Minister prepared to come up with appropriate measures with his European colleagues? What's it gonna take? I also have a question about boostering. The booster rate is steadily rising and anyone who wants it can get a booster. However, we also read reports from people who doubt a mRNA vaccine as a booster. How can we make these people feel heard and helped? And what about people who, for example, have had a Janssen vaccine and want a booster for it, because they had an allergic reaction? How could they go anywhere? Mr. Chairman. For the long term: when will the Chamber receive the Minister's proposals for long-term corona policy? What does the Minister intend to do with the Fifth Extension Act, which I believe will be on the pipeline next week? And does the Minister agree with the VVD that it is wise to propose this extension and use the next period to see what can be done to set up the Public Health Act for any new covid variants? I saw a motion by Mr Bikker and Mr Kuik about this almost a year ago, but I am curious to see how we can now work with it at this time. And what about covid virus A status? What criteria are needed to give it a B status and how does the Minister intend to deal with it? I would like a commitment that the Minister will work on this in his letters, for example on long-term corona policy. Mr. Chairman. The virus isn't gone. That's what it feels like, but only together do we learn to live with this virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Paulusma of the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Spring's at the door. Along with the sun comes one of those breezes you're gonna smile about. The future looks bright. Corona seems to dominate our lives less. Fortunately, the cabinet also anticipates this fresh springy wind. The announced relaxations are more than welcome, but just as we look daily at the weather report, we also have to look closely at the predictions of science in corona to see if the breeze is not going to be a storm and care is flooding. This means: preparing for what can happen in the short and long term, such as a new variant, a completely new virus or a bacteria that is resistant to all antibiotics. Mr. Chairman. As far as we're concerned, we've been through the last tough times thanks to our nurses, doctors, carers, people who were providing mental help, teachers, parents, scientists and enforcement people. To them and to everyone I forget now, I say thank you. Mr. Chairman. There are also people for whom this period remains difficult, such as for the relatives of deceased patients, for those who have barely survived the ic, for those who are now suffering from long covid, for those whose care has not yet been overtaken and for those who are now unemployed or have lost their business. We're thinking about you, too. That is why I ask the Minister: what are you going to do with these relaxations for those who are still vulnerable and who find these relaxations very exciting? The OMT appoints, inter alia, the provision of medical mouth caps and the provision of self-testing. I understand the Minister's line on the broad provision of this, but for vulnerable people that may be different. After all, it can be better protected and early knowing that you have corona, make a big difference. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days, a lot of news has come out about the beginning of the crisis, about the role of the Ministry and of the RIVM. I would like to receive an oral response from the Minister. However, I believe that we need to look very carefully at what has happened. It'll take time. That is why I also believe that we should not start playing political panic football with each other. The Safety Research Council has just come out with its first results. I'm sure there'll be more documents coming up on the Wob requests. We will also have the parliamentary survey. Mr. Chairman. This does not alter the fact that there are lessons that we, almost without thinking, must and can take immediately. I am thinking of focusing on society, not just on care, and of focusing on prevention. I am thinking of ventilation in schools, training more infection control doctors, maintaining care personnel, better communication and speeding up vaccination campaigns. I would like to hear how the Minister looks at these logical lessons and when he comes to this with more clarity. Besides...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	There's a question. You can finish your sentence first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	Yeah, because it's still a good addition. I am also curious to see which OVV recommendations the cabinet is already taking with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	There is a question from Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	Where to start, I wonder. Then let me start positively. I agree with Mrs Paulusma that we should not make hasty decisions, that we should not act in haste and that there should be no panic football. But we've been under the spell of the corona crisis for two years. We see more and more information coming out that is at stake in the independence of the OMT. We also see that there are really devastating conclusions being drawn, which the previous govern ment at least says: I do not agree with the conclusions and recommendations. If, as the spokesman for D66, you state here that we need even longer time to allow that to take place, then that does not do justice to what she is actually saying. Then it does not do justice to the relatives of the people who have fallen because of corona. Then that does not do justice to the entrepreneur who went bankrupt because of the corona measures. Then it doesn't do justice to the young people who have depression at home. Then this does not do justice to two years of freedom-limiting measures, which has disrupted society as a whole. I would therefore like to hear from the spokesperson of D66: what does she think of today's coverage, of the report by the OVV? What do you think of the fact that the country has been bullied and cheated by the US Department of Commerce, under the responsibility of the former Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	That's two questions. About the latter: the country is not fooled. Protective measures have been taken to prevent a disease that we were not prepared for... I think that is one of the conclusions from this very large 314-page report with two pages per page. I haven't read it yet. So it's not my words that we're screwed. Protective measures? Yes. I would very much like to do this analysis carefully. If we in the Chamber are going to have a debate every day on all the letters and all the documents that come out, then I think we are going to make it very difficult for ourselves, but then we are not going to do the analysis that society is entitled to. And I don't want to hunt down any culprits, I want to make sure that the lessons we have to learn from this have consequences and we're better prepared for what might come next.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	The country is indeed fooled and fooled. That is also what we see from the publication of the Wob documents, which we have had to wait for for eight months. At first, the Ministry filed a lawsuit against the person who requested information on the basis of the Wob. At first, they tried to stop it. Eight months later, those pieces are there, and we see in those documents that the ministry simply added pieces of text to the OMT opinions. We see that these documents say: when it comes to the proportionality of the Temporary Law measures Covid-19, we do not mention certain information. It is said in the documents that if we tell people a sausage, so that they take these measures now, they will have to be reduced in the future and thereby increase their acceptance. As a result, the Netherlands has been fooled and fooled, President, I say through you to the spokesman for D66, Mrs Paulusma. And I would like to have her opinion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	Yeah, before I repeat it: I think we're society... And then they're the words "fuck off"... If we don't do this more carefully than I'm being accused of right now... And we can, if we don't know... I hear you saying: words have been added. I read other things, too. And I scanned this, because I was also in the technical briefing this morning, so I haven't had time for this package yet. I'm not drawing those conclusions yet. What I want is time and a careful debate in which we can talk about the analysis, but also formulate lessons learned for the future. That's different than "fuck off."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	I just think this is too easy. And I can see why the D66 spokesperson is diving into this subject. I'm talking about these Wob requests. While the spokesperson of D66 constantly refers to the OVV report, the conclusions of which were actually known yesterday, the spokesperson of D66 does not say anything about the Wob requests to which Nieuwsuur extensively devoted a broadcast last week. All those pieces were already in our possession, and it just literally states that certain information was withheld from the House of Representatives. So we didn't get certain information; that's what the texts say. The Minister then responds to this: we need to understand the situation of civil servants. Everyone understands the situation of civil servants, but the Minister is responsible. So I would really like to ask you, Mrs Paulusma of D66: what is your opinion on the fact that certain documents, certain information, have not been shared with the Chamber, under the responsibility of the previous ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	I'm not diving. I take my work very seriously. That's why I want to read this first. That is why I supported a request this morning to hold a debate on this and a number of other documents that have also come out, so that we can have the debate with all due care on all the information. Because things need to be better; I fully agree with you. Only, this "someone must die now because the country is entitled to it," I am not going to participate in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	Those aren't the words I used. I don't want anyone to die. I just want to ensure that we have a transparent and fair policy. And what we've had to conclude on the Wob requests is that that didn't happen. Information has been withheld. People had to be told a sausage. I am thinking of last week's votes, when we discussed a motion by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Omtzigt on the non-implementation of the 2G law. I know that D66 is a huge supporter of this, also in the light of the fact that D66 was one of the few parties still in favour of 2G, for 3G in education, for 3G in the workplace. And the municipal elections are coming up. I then walk around the city a bit and see everywhere posters of D66 with the text "Drop no one" or "Let everyone go, but no one falls." Do I have to interpret that as: Release no one until everyone has a QR code?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	I think this was a bunch of questions. I'm sticking to what I just said: this calls for care. And I'm gonna take my time. And that has nothing to do with diving. I think we should do this as a chamber. I take that task very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	Clear. Mr Van Haga's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	The last interruption? We only had four, do I understand? I see the chairman nodding. Okay. In March 2020, it seemed like a major crisis was coming our way. In the end, of course, it was not so bad and the panic, the misery and the damage were caused by the measures. BVNL can condone a lot: stupidity, incompetence, a wrong education; it's all fine. That's what you see in the OVV report. It says that the strong focus on disease control resulted in a careless balance. That's all fine. I'm not going over that too much. It's possible. You're making mistakes. A lot of mistakes have been made incredibly. It was a total mischief, but we have talked about it many times. But Mr Kuzu, for example, referred to the bill on the corona apps. Officials talk about a change in behaviour, want to push us a little down the throat and say: perhaps the hole is less big if the sausage is told that there are fewer restrictions of freedom in the future. Mr Kuzu just mentioned that we were fooled in that. I'll go along with that. Can D66 at least agree with BVNL that this is a ready-made deception of the people and that this should not happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	Responding to that one sentence: no, it shouldn't be like that. I also believe that, throughout the system we have set up together, we should be able to trust that we share the right things with each other at the right time. You also refer to this report. I'm going to read this very carefully. On this basis, we will draw conclusions and hopefully learn the right lessons to prevent what has gone wrong in a number of areas or has been insinuated to have gone wrong. I would first like to read this very carefully and also await the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	And then you also support a debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mrs Paulusma's answer is always very useful, but Mr Kuzu and Mr Haga, and I now too, are asking questions about last week's Nieuwsuur research. We are not currently asking you about the OVV report. In the investigation of Nieuwsuur, a lot of evidence has been put forward. One of them, of course, is about the independence of the OMT. Mrs Paulusma just said: I do not agree that heads should roll. But at the moment when we always hear the winged statement "we follow the OMT; the OMT is independent" is held up and evidence shows that we are not... It doesn't turn out to be once or twice. No, Nieuwsuur has already mentioned four OMT opinions that were sent to VWS, and then changed and changed. It has even been changed to the minutes of the OMT, including with regard to the protective equipment for nurses. That would have been incredibly important. It's not fair to communicate that there was a shortage. It's been said that you didn't have to do it with casual contacts. Mrs Paulusma then says in advance: but I do not participate in the rolling of heads. But how is this breach of confidence going to be healed in the direction of the nurses, the home help, the employees, the district nurses, the neighborhood nurses who all had to work without protective equipment, because it wasn't all necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	I hear two questions from Mrs Agema. Her first question is about the item of Nieuwsuur and what was shared in it. Nieuwsuur also stated in that broadcast that the OMT opinion already stated that a number of members had said that protective equipment was less needed or not needed in this sector; do not pin me on that word for a moment. So that was already in the advice. I would very much like to see what happened in the process around the clarification. I think we can debate this for a very long time, but I just don't know. That's what I need this for. Then the second. I don't know if it was a question, but I hate what happened in the nursing homes. I hate what happened in the nursing homes. One of the lessons learned from this should be that there should not only be a focus on hospitals, but that of course it is about the whole chain. What has happened in home care, in nursing homes and in institutions for people with intellectual disabilities is appalling. So I'll share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	I don't think so. Mrs Paulusma says she is not going to participate in "heads roll," but that is not the point at all. It's about the breach of trust. On February 10th, our entire supply of protective equipment was sold to China. With the permission of the State Department, a plane just left Schiphol. There's no fair communication: we didn't have it, because we sold the place out. No, there was communication: it is not really very necessary if you have volatile contacts, and for domestic help it is not necessary. But people went by bushes. I live in a neighborhood with a lot of elderly people and I saw them go. With red blush they came out the door and went with the children in their car. It was intense. We didn't have a visual on it, the OVV says, but there's also been cheating. Thirteen care workers who received corona died in the first phase. People got lung covid, which is what you're so fond of. So I ask you, how does this breach of trust come to be resolved with regard to D66? How is it corrected? How will it be restored for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	Let there really be no misunderstanding that with the same passion and total frustration I would do the same story as Mrs Agema just did, about what happened in this sector, what happened to people in private, how much suffering and grief there is still. But if you ask me how I'm going to work on a breach of trust, I think that time is an essential factor in that. I can say tomorrow that things have to be different, but that is not working on a breach of confidence, I would like to say to Mrs Agema. It is now also important that we take time and see what has actually gone wrong and how we can do better next time. I think a breach of confidence is also about not wanting to rush it because you want to move on to the next. It's about taking your time seriously. I think one of the recommendations this morning was also: talk to citizens more. Take your time for that, too. So that's how I'd like to work on restoring trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	Fine. You're continuing. I think you had a few lines left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I'm sticking to the theme again. If we prepare for bad weather, there are also issues that require a good discussion in the Chamber, such as whether or not to extend the Corona Act on 1 March and the period after that. What does the Minister intend to do about it now? What options will be on the table when overall closures are discussed again? My group believes that we should not avoid the difficult discussions, that we should have political debates on this. For the Chamber, it should not become a habit to postpone difficult subjects. Mr. Chairman. Back to the now. The relaxations are incredibly nice, but I do ask the Minister why 1G is selectively on the table. An event can't fall into a crowded city center with steamy bars. I understand that this is perceived as an unfair playing field. For society, it is also about small numbers. So why this choice? I find him hard to understand. Because then what are the rules for the football stadiums? How does 1G relate to carnival? That goes off exactly two days after the last relaxations. I would like a reaction from the cabinet, including on how it sees implementation and enforcement. Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, it may be a difficult time for vulnerable patients, because Corona is still not a flu. Long covid or postcovid syndrome is now getting more to the fore. The Health Council rightly concluded on Monday that more attention is needed. Is the cabinet prepared to come up with an appreciation of this advice? It has already been mentioned by a number of colleagues: in two weeks it will be two years since the first people had to deal with the virus, including many caregivers. Some men threaten to get into the WIA through long covid and lose their jobs. How was the discussion with the trade unions and the social partners? Can agreements be made, for example with a covenant, so that dismissal can be avoided in the near future? Finally, Mr President. I get a lot of questions from parents because their teenagers want a booster shot because they have family members who are vulnerable, because they want extra security or because otherwise they can't go on vacation. What can the minister do for them? Does he speak to European colleagues, such as Austria, because teenagers do not enter Austria without a booster shot? I'm at my conclusion. I would like to join Mrs Tielen's question on the threats, especially of those employees who have been walking around for two years in front of us: the health services and the general practitioners. I'm curious about the reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is opening. That's good news. But I am not here to cheer, because we have stayed close for much longer than necessary. As the only country in Europe, we were unnecessarily in a hard lockdown in December. In the last two years there has been a great deal of damage caused by political malpractice. It's almost invisible. Think of all those entrepreneurs who have lost so much, who have seen their savings and pensions go up in smoke. Think of all those young people who have been taken away from a carefree childhood. Think of all those young children who have fallen behind so much at school that it will affect their later lives. Think of all those elderly people who sat in the nursing home or at home with corona and saw their nurse, their home help or their neighborhood care coming by without protection because all our protective equipment had been sold to China. I also mention polarization. Families and friends got torn apart and came face-to-face. Families have fallen apart. Vaccinates and unvaccinated people have gone to each other's lives. Sick people have suffered irreparable damage by delaying treatment and surgery. I also mention the exhausted care workers. Care is on the verge of blows. The effects of the corona crisis will be felt for years to come. Years of hard-wearing care skills made the crisis in our country unnecessarily deep and unnecessarily hard. But although we don't know if there's another corona variant that can play us, it's ready for now. For now, it's back to normal. For now, we need to lick our wounds and fix what's to fix. Now it is time to abolish all the rules and give people back their own free choices. Do you still want to wear a mouth cap? Fine. Don't you want that? Then you quit. Don't you want to shake hands yet, don't you want to hug me yet, or do you want to keep your distance? That's all good. We can very well decide for ourselves. We know our own risks and those we love. We can do that very well among ourselves, in consultation. Give us back our own free choices. Give us back the direction of our own lives. In any case, it was unacceptable that it was taken from us out of panic and unfounded. Let caterers decide what time they close. Corona still can't tell the clock. Stop mass testing at the GGD, as the OMT now suggests. The correlation with hospital admissions is long gone anyway. Self-tests are well established and give immediate results. "Who is sick remains home" is a standard that is widely accepted. Don't go on the path of 1G. That certainly doesn't give us any certainty. A number of times I pointed out to the Minister in vain at the Christmas party in Malaga where 70 out of 173 doctors and nurses were infected, even though they had all been vaccinated three times and even though they had all been tested. When you open the nighthoreca, you take a calculated risk with superspreading events. It's an exciting risk, but it's possible. If you want to do something to prevent infections in the nighthoreca, use the right ventilation. It can reduce the number of infections by 70%. Turns out that's research from our own RIVM. That is an unprecedentedly greater result than with any kind of corona admission ticket. At the same time as all that good news, the cesspool opens. Right away, Prime Minister Rutte is taking his dirty hands off the corona file. We don't see him in the Corona debates anymore. He's leaving it to Minister Kuipers now, hoping all the guilt will be on him. Who was involved in changing OMT opinions by VWS? From Dissel? Yeah, sure, we read it in the letter. The "we follow the OMT" was a flagrant lie. My trust has been violated. Who's gonna fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	I hear Mrs Agema say that she thinks that self-tests are well established in such a way that the advice to stop testing at the GGD is actually very good. I wonder if Mrs Agema is aware of the fact that many people suffering from lung covid need a registration of the GGD before their diseases are even recognised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yeah, but that's a small group of people. I'm not saying that testing at the GGD needs to be completely lifted, but the large-scale testing does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	Yes, it's a small group of people, but it often doesn't always have a lot of challenges, but it often has a lot of challenges, for example in mobility because they're sick and vulnerable and fall into the risk group. We also know that self-tests are well established, but ultimately do not give decisive exclusion. I wonder if Mrs Agema doesn't think it would be wise to stick to a negative self-test, so as to exclude false positives and false negatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	At the moment, that leads to 1 million people doing so a week. That's not in proportion anymore. Most of the people who do not belong to the exception groups you appoint are actually doing it so that they can get a recovery certificate for the corona tickets. For them it is much easier and much more practical to do a self-test, a home test. In addition, you have immediate results. You'll see it in 15 minutes. Then you immediately get the result before visiting your parents who are vulnerable or friends who are vulnerable. You can do it a lot more often. You don't go to the G.D.D. seven times a week for a test. In the end, we're not gonna do any of that. Those self-tests are much more low-threshold and deliver results very quickly. They're well-established and pretty well-available. I also welcome the fact that they are provided free of charge to the minima. I am concerned about the advice of the OMT, but it was already in a news report this morning that we can really get rid of the large-scale testing. Many countries have done that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	Then I am left with the fact that many people only find out about their so-called underlying suffering, when they are infected and have become ill. It may seem like you have a perfectly healthy body, but then you get corona and then all these problems arise. For a large group, it is true that either the underlying sufferings or the underlying sufferings are caused by the consequences of the infection. Then it still seems important to me that these people can go to the GD. So that group gets much bigger in one blow. I can stand here today and look completely healthy, but an infection can suddenly show that I'm either suffering from underlying suffering or left with lung covid. Without a GGD test, my employer, insurer and all the agencies and gremia I'm dealing with will not accept that I've really had covid and because of that I've got all those complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	But that is not at all part of the proposal I made or of what the OMT is investigating right now. It's about the large-scale testing via the GGD. That's what 1 million people have done in the last week. It's not about the people who want to take a test for medical reasons. By the way, you can do that through the GP or a specialist. It's not about lifting testing at the GGD, either, but it's about lifting large-scale testing, testing everyone with complaints. That happened a million times last week. Many countries are questioning this. They're already quitting. The OMT is now thinking about stopping that too. I am in favour of that. That does not mean that it stops for all kinds of specific cases. Mrs. Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	That's my job. Do you have an interruption, Mrs. Tielen, or are you just stretching your legs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	Speaking of responsibilities on a roll. When I listen to Mrs. Agema, I almost get the feeling that she thinks the corona pandemic is all over. Am I hearing that right, or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	No. But what I have great difficulty with is that during the first summer and the second summer, when corona was almost gone, freedom-limiting, contact-limiting measures remained in the air. That's what I have a problem with. I am more in favour of a policy that is put into practice immediately when it goes wrong. That must be used forcefully, with things that do work. We're also going to work more structuralally on the right ventilation and that sort of thing. But what I am not in favour of is the fact that it happened in the first and second summers, and that is what I see now too is the retention of anti-contact measures when that is no longer the case. 92% of the 60-plussers got the booster. That risk group therefore did so for 92%. That is probably the main reason why there are now less than 200 people on the ic. Mr Van Dissel also said something about it this morning. Since there are less than 200 people on the ice now and Mr Kuipers has already said in the previous debate that he no longer expects that to flood, we are finished with the freedom-limiting measures. That doesn't mean that there will never be a variant that we suddenly have to jump back in the legs, but we'll see that again. Now it's not the time. We know there's always a delay, so if you do something now, you can slow down a bit in the future, but it's done for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	That is indeed my next question, and Mrs Agema is already partly answering it. What, then, does Mrs Agema think is very important to have, at least as a collective, so to speak, to prevent... Suppose that there is indeed a more contagious and serious variant showing up somewhere and towards the Netherlands, assuming that it appears elsewhere, what does Mrs Agema think is important to have, so that we do not end up again in the situation of the last two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	That's so beautiful, the VVD is asking that question. Because each time I point out that we have almost half less ic capacity than the average in European countries. So I would be the first to increase that capacity to about the average of European countries, so that's about 2,000. Then it's about operational, structural beds, so no longer that flexible scaling and scaling, because if you scale up flexibly, regular care is scaled down and people have to wait for surgery again. So at least the ic-capacity is structurally increasing to about the European average of about 2,000. In addition, investment in hospital capacity, as Mr Kuipers emphasised in his previous role. Those basic agreements really need to be stopped. The VVD is going to make even more savings on hospitals and close many more hospital locations until 2030. That policy must stop. The destruction of hospitals must stop and repair what is broken down, first and foremost. And when it comes to freedom-limiting measures, there are things that work, but in implementation it is very complicated. Test settings have been done with oral protection, mouth caps. The results are very favourable, in Göttingen, among others, and also with those FFP2 masks that would protect much better. If you see in practice that our government says "not here, but there" and "if you start walking, you put it on and off again," then it doesn't work in practice. So if we still support things in the future, they have to be proven effective and can really contribute to that flatten the curve. There must be more evidence for this, but we are not against it, because in the end our hospital care should be able to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	That means the PVV doesn't think that prevention is better than cure? Because Mrs Agema believes that the most important thing is that ic-recordings are the solution to a coronapandemic. That really lacks all the residual phenomena that people have left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	That really is a shameful question or remark from the VVD! In the years before the corona crisis, the VVD has completely stopped our concern. Five years before the corona crisis we had 914 ic nurses more than at the start of that crisis, we had 19 emergency services more, we had 19 intensive cares more, we had 5 hospitals more. Everything always had to go away, everything had to be broken and everything had to be shut down, all on the initiative of the VVD! It was old VVD Minister Edith Schippers who started with those basic chords. I wish we had them! If only we had those hospitals, the panic wouldn't be so big! Then we wouldn't have had that panic lockdown in December where all those entrepreneurs, which the VVD should once stand for, didn't have to throw away their Christmas goods; all those Christmas dresses, all that Christmas stuff. We were the only country in Europe that was in a lockdown. In a panic lockdown that wouldn't have been necessary if our hospital capacity had been in order. Thanks to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	Thank you. Good. Who was involved in the changes to the OMT opinions? We already read in the Minister's letter that at least the President of the OMT, i.e. Mr Van Dissel, was involved at the highest level. "We follow the OMT" was a flagrant lie. My trust has been violated. I ask the Minister: who makes this right? And also: who caused the raging sausage when our fundamental rights were violated? Was it Ollongren? Grapperhaus? The Young One? Who pulled the strings when the nursing home workers checked the distribution of protective equipment? From Dissel? Brown? The Young One? Thirteen care workers died during the first corona wave. Who's gonna account for this? Rutte wants us to forget that until today he is ultimately responsible for what has been done to our country, for all the care cuts that took place before the start of the corona crisis under his leadership. Which he had corrected when the need was for the man and all the care cuts he still has in store. But we haven't forgotten, and we won't forget. We will do everything we can for recovery, justice and accountability for the course that is dangerous, for the trust that has been violated. It is not enough, I say to Minister Kuipers, for us to ask whether we are talking to the officials concerned. Our trust has been violated. It is precisely in crisis time that integrity is the highest good. That should never have been forgotten. I'd like a response to that. Corona's not over. The crisis is. Freedom of choice for citizens, release power and accountability are now up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	Thank you. Then Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my joy that in this new phase we can take great steps towards opening up society. We don't owe that to the people who attacked GD employees. Disgusting and unacceptable, last week in Heerlen, earlier on Urk, but also the movies at the GGD Haaglanden. Thanks to the silent majority, we can take this step. Wearing a mask where that is requested, boosters, taking other people into account, you name it all. So it's fantastic to see how self-tests have been introduced. That helped. Entrepreneurs, teachers, care workers, enforcers, emergency services, they've helped. People who have taken a step back at the most difficult moments in their lives: a small circle funeral, young people who have spared grandpa and grandma. That's why a big complete for the silent majority. The number of corona infections has never been this high, but fortunately this now hardly leads to hospital and ic recordings. We see the light at the end of the tunnel. That's what we need, because Corona has taken a lot of us all and turned our lives upside down. We have also experienced how much we need each other for joy of life and our mental well-being. It is good that the cabinet now focuses on opening up, on how to live with corona. It is good that the cabinet calls on people to continue to take responsibility for themselves, but also for those who are vulnerable, who we must continue to take into account. One must therefore continue self-testing and stay at home in case of complaints. Mr. Chairman. The CDA looks forward to the long-term approach and has previously identified, inter alia, the following issues. How do we better safeguard public interests? What basic measures should we maintain? How should we optimally organise care? What actions should we take to protect people who are vulnerable? We are going to come back to that in detail. That is also what we are doing on the report by the OVV which was published this morning. As a CDA, we would like to have a response to the message from Nieuwsuur and what the minister thinks of the process, how such a draft report is sent to the Ministry and how less transparent is what exactly happens to it. Mr. Chairman. The CDA still has some questions about the relaxations, such as testing at unplaced events of more than 500 people. Why the 500 limit? Aren't checks on good ventilation and air cleaning much more important? In addition to attention to behavior, the CDA has often advocated the use of technology. On 20 January, we asked for attention to be paid to the financing of a TNO project for the further development of measuring equipment that demonstrates the amount of contagious virus in the air. What's the status? Against that background, I have one more question. Is it true that Belgian professor Bert Blocken with the head of Belgian RIVM, Marc van Ranst, is now doing research with Dutch companies, but that the Dutch government is not involved? Mr. Chairman. Which brings us to carnival. Carnival starts now and not at the end of February. Mayors therefore now need concrete practical guidelines that can also be implemented. Mayor Jan-Frans Mulder van Hulst rightly remarked: half pregnant doesn't exist, half carnival doesn't. The Minister wants 1G to be applied from 25 February at meetings that take place within unplaced with more than 500 people. What is the Minister's view on the implementation of Carnival? How is the Minister going to ensure that the Carnival celebration becomes a relaxing event, including for enforcers and mayors? I'd like a response from both regiments. Mr. Chairman. It is understandable that we still hold on to masks in public transport and airplanes, but why do we have to wear masks on platforms and shops at a station, while elsewhere in the outdoors and in other shops? I'd like a response from both regiments. Mr. Chairman. It is right that quarantine measures should also be relaxed. You even have to ask yourself if you should ask people to stay at home in case of mild complaints at all. Strict quarantine measures are undesirable not only because of large staff shortages, but also because of effects in, for example, disability care. The daily use and proximity of familiar faces are extremely important for these residents. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Finally, Mr President. To travel, the corona ticket remains important for the time being. In the previous debate, we asked: what about the Janssen vaccine and access to Germany? Now that's settled, that's our question. I receive several reports about problems with registrations of boosters from other EU countries. I would like to receive a response to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You will have worked in the care of the elderly in the spring of 2020, under unsafe conditions because you didn't get the protective equipment you wanted. During that time the SP had a lot of contact with the employees, the caregivers in the nursing homes. They were afraid of their own health. But what struck me even more was the fear and concern of infecting those people for whom you are supposed to take care of as best as possible and with heart and soul. There are nursing homes where in those days more than half of all residents died of the coronavirus. There are caregivers who have become ill for a long time after infection. And there are carers who today blame themselves for contributing to the spread of that virus. I'm just getting goosebumps that's still going on. It's just horrible. Older people's care is lagging behind in the first stage of the epidemic. That's what the O.V.V. Research Council says. The need for the protection of nursing homes has not been met. The lack of it has even been the main reason, according to the OVV, that the nursing homes were completely closed at the time. The OVV also refers to the directive applied in nursing homes to influenza, the flu. It says you always have to use a surgically-grade oral and nasal mask. However, I think it is even worse that the cabinet has deliberately used it to slow down the use of protective equipment in the care of the elderly. To this end, the Ministry has even had adjustments made to the OMT's opinions, the OMT's opinions, which have always been said here in all these debates to be independent. It appears that the Ministry has regularly carried the red pen through the OMT recommendations. News hours have requested the Wob pieces. They are now only about the first months of the crisis, and it already shows that there are many adjustments, but in most cases they are kept secret by the Ministry. But not all of them are classified. It is precisely when it comes to protective equipment in the care of the elderly that the Ministry adapts the OMT advice to a crucial point. In the Ministry's view, it should be made more explicit that mouth masks should not be used preventively. A civil servant writes, I quote: 'With that text, we are not going to stop nursing homes from using their supplies widely'. The Ministry adds its own suggestion: "The use of pbm as a precautionary measure in patients who do not have a (suspect on) COVID-19 is not necessary and is not desirable in view of the persistent scarcity of bpm." This sentence will become very important in the end. It will be referred to for months to come, including by the Minister, every time as caregivers, trade unions, but also the SP, several times asking for more preventive use of protective equipment. The minister says that he doesn't have to, because the OMT also says it's not necessary. But it gets even crazier, because at the request of the Ministry itself, this sentence is not only added to the OMT opinion, but ultimately also to the RIVM guidelines. That is not because the RIVM is proposing this at the time, but at the Ministry's explicit insistence. It would help enormously, as the Ministry writes, if it were included in the directive. I quote from the e-mails: "I fear there will be a run on pbm if more and more organisations choose prevention." The Ministry therefore feared that organisations would opt for prevention, as for example Jos de Blok van Buurtzorg did. How macabre is it to read back about that fear of prevention now that we know that thousands of people have died in nursing homes, and that the OVV also says that of all the people who died of the virus in the first period half lived in a nursing home? How much suffering could have been avoided if the ministry and the minister had not been so obstinate at the time, but had done what was necessary? Mr. Chairman. The Minister states in his letter that changes have never been made, but that at most textual suggestions have been made for clarity. I think that's how he makes it into a political game. No, the Ministry did not write the OMT opinion itself, but on crucial issues it was requested to adapt. By the way, we didn't find out because the Ministry always makes the documents public, but because it accidentally used the black marker wrongly. One day they're gonna finish something and the next time they're not. As a result, you can read that the Ministry insists that drivers of vans who have to transport vulnerable people to daily consumption should not wear a medical mask, as the OMT has advised. I would like to ask the Minister why this is still about clarifying questions. How can such instructions to the OMT still be seen as clarifying questions? In almost every debate, the cabinet referred to the independent scientific advice of the OMT. The SP has also supported measures, not always out of enthusiasm, which were supported by the advice of science, the OMT, the RIVM. We always assumed that there had been no political sauce from the Minister. This affects the confidence that we can have in this minister and his predecessor to have the Chamber objectively informed by science. I would like to emphasise that, Mr President. We do not have that lack of confidence when it comes to the experts themselves, who want to do their work in good conscience and who should advise us and the Cabinet on the state of science. We do have serious concerns about the way the Minister and his predecessor operate. We believe that there is a scandal, not only of the parliament, but also of the people, who should be able to count on independent advice, without sauce. I've got 16 seconds, Mr. Chairman. It's gonna be all right. That is why my last two questions to this minister. Why did he interfere with the OMT recommendations at all to the level of detail? How can the House of Representatives and the people still count on the fact that no changes have been made in the opinions of this House, but also in the previous opinions that have been sent to the Chamber, which have been able to influence the decision-making process? I don't have that science right now. I don't have that confidence right now either. I hope the Minister can fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Pauluma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	I think Mr Hijink is asking some very valid questions. I think they live with everyone when you look back at a two-year crisis like that. I also believe that we share the view that we need to work towards trust in society and that a lot of trust has been damaged in the past period, because people have lost someone, because they have worked hard or because of the subject you have just touched. Doesn't Mr. Hijink think that by picking up a number of subjects from this report, he also contributes to the mistrust that exists? Perhaps we can do much better about the relationship of trust to which we are entitled by discussing the whole research report in a debate, as has now been proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	But now the whole thing's getting turned around. I wasn't the one who went through the OMT recommendation with a red or black marker. I was not the one who said to RIVM: adjust the directives, because that suits me better politically. That's what happened from the Ministry, from the Minister, not from the SP side. I point that out here, just because I'm pissed off about it, and I hope that's clear by now. For two years we have had to hear from the Minister: we have to take these measures now, because the OMT recommends this. We talked about the curfew. We talked about the tickets. At what times did the minister go through the OMT advice with that marker and write things about it that led to us being put on the wrong foot? That's all I care about. So you shouldn't put the ball with me, you should put the ball with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	That was by no means my intention, because I do not think the SP has the ability to go through that report with that black marker. What I asked you to do was: would it contribute to the concern about trust in society, which I believe we share, if we discussed that whole report at once, instead of getting a few things out of it now? So I'm not saying you're responsible for what's crossed out. I'm kind of looking for the care in the debate about that whole report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	No, of course we should discuss that report in its entirety. I think that's what we're gonna do. I would just like to point out to Mrs Paulusma that the changes made to the OMT opinions and the requests to amend directives are not at all about the report by the OVV that has been issued today. They're about the broadcast of Newshour last Friday. It made it clear that the Wob documents showed that these OMT opinions were crafted. So that doesn't really have much to do with the OVV's report. It was about the broadcast of Newshour last Friday. That's what I asked the questions about. I believe that this should also be done in the debate now. We received another opinion last Monday and we will be receiving further advice in the coming period. I want to make sure that it wasn't messed with. That's why we're setting it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	Clear. Thank you. Then Mrs Westerveld from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	Mr. Chairman. From this point on, first of all, I would like to say nothing about the qualifications of the replacement chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of Mrs Chicken of the PvdA. In 2018 the VVD campaigned with the metaphor over a vase. That vase would symbolize the Netherlands. Breakable, but proudly standing, by being held by millions of Dutch. And as long as we were all holding that little vase, we were still a cool country. But it's not just up to the locals to keep that vase whole. It's also up to politics. This morning, the research report of the Research Council on Security was presented. Although I have not yet been able to study the more than 300 pages, I dare say that this report causes cracks in that proverbial vase. That has nothing to do with the fact that mistakes have been made, because in every crisis, of course, we make mistakes. It has to do with the fact that I fear that many mistakes have been made in the past two years that have never been recognised and have never been corrected, which means that they do not learn from them. GroenLinks has been concerned for some time in this corona crisis that politics is not sufficiently remote from our institutions. How we organized the decision-making process is at odds with how we organised our democratic rule of law. Advisors need to advise, ministries make policies and ultimately it's up to politics to make the choices. Nowhere does this intertwinedness come back as harrowingly as in the Hoods Directive in the care of the elderly. Research carried out by Nieuwsuur.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This is about something, because we know that the corona virus caused many deaths in the nursing homes. At the same time, in the debate on 1 December, the Prime Minister spoke to me and others that the OMT opinion would be fully autonomous and independent. I can only draw one conclusion, namely that this has not always been true. The OVV has been able to view all the pieces, without black-painted pages, and concludes: "Comments were clarifications, but sometimes it was really about content." It is not that the Chamber at the time was not critical of this mask directive. The Chamber has indeed done its job and has repeatedly called upon the cabinet to do so in debates. That is why I have the following question. Can the Minister share all the suggestions made in relation to the OMT opinions over the last two years? Does the Minister disagree with what has happened in his ministry? Does the Minister agree with me that we should better protect institutions from political interference? Mr. Chairman. Not only OMT opinions should be completely independent. The same goes for RIVM. At the same time, RIVM is not an independent administrative body, but an agency of the Minister of VWS. The RIVM director conducts an annual meeting with the Ministry. I wonder whether the Minister thinks that it is in the interests of our institutions that we should look at this again? Mr. Chairman. As a parliament, we have to make continuous assessments. Think of the balance between constitutional rights to be free and to be able to move freely, and the duty of the government to promote public health and ensure that the corona virus does as little damage as possible. This consideration is a continuous struggle between rights and obligations. I am glad that we can overcome many restrictions in the coming period either because so many people have been vaccinated or boosterd, or because they have been cured. This is also because people adhere to the basic measures and are being tested. This is because the people in care fought for our vulnerable and, of course, because the omikron variant is less sickening. I'm glad many restrictions can be removed. At the same time, I can imagine that people with vulnerable health were watching the press conference with lead in their shoes. GroenLinks and PvdA believe that the government can and should do more to protect vulnerable people. In my view, this is not the case, because we ask the cabinet to move after a motion to ensure that FFP2 covers and self-tests can be made available free of charge. But that's not gonna happen. OMT advice after OMT advice calls for attention to be paid to the high costs that people incur. My question to the cabinet is simple: when do we make self-tests and FFP2 covers available free of charge, as other countries do? I also wonder whether some measures are not being relaxed too quickly. For example, wearing masks is not a serious violation of our privacy, but falls into most places. Why does the cabinet choose to do that? Because it can help protect vulnerable people. The homework advice is also being amended. For many people that is a great relief, but not for vulnerable people. That is why I would also like to ask this Minister if he is prepared to embrace the initiative law of D66 and GroenLinks, which asks for the right to work at home. Mr. Chairman. Long covid is still not taken seriously, while thousands of people are sick at home. I would like to ask the cabinet why no compensation fund is set up in the short term. Finally, Mr President. Already a year and a half ago GroenLinks said that preventive testing can make more possible and maybe even prevent lockdowns. In this respect, I am glad that that message has finally landed; better late than never. But to be quite honest, 1G is a bit out of the blue in this package of measures. Why is 1G specifically used for events with more than 500 visitors and not more than 400 or 600? Will there be more test locations at the venue of the event itself? Does the Ministry ensure that all test sites are reachable at low threshold? Can the Cabinet guarantee that this measure will be reviewed on 15 March? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I have one final point to make, because in some of the interruptions I hear colleagues saying contradictory things. You cannot say on the one hand that the cabinet is responsible for so many people being infected by covid, and on the other hand have been calling as a party for months that all measures must be taken off. I would like to say at this point that politics is sometimes also making very difficult choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	There is another question from Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	I agree with Mrs Westerveld's last words. I have a question, too. We had the debate here a while ago about the researchers at TU Delft. They were in the NRC again. I brought them for a while, because I never remember quotes that well. They said about the corona pass that it's a little crazy to say you're never gonna sprinkle salt again because it's not freezing now. In doing so, they actually made a plea for looking at the long term. I wonder how GroenLinks looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	I liked Mr Hijink's response to Twitter. Anyway, I won't repeat it here. I recommend people to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	Now you're making it too exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr Hijink said on Twitter that salt scattering on roads is proven to be effective and that you can ask that question with the corona pass. With that, I'm not saying that corona tickets are not effective. What TU Delft researchers clearly state is that the corona admissions documents 3G and 2G help very little in reducing the number of infections and that you should therefore also continue to look at proportionality. That is my consideration here, because if anything helps very little in reducing the number of infections, you have to ask that question whether this is how we should restrict the fundamental rights of all of us. Then the question of proportionality comes to mind, and that is why I agree that we need to get those corona tickets 3G and 2G out of the toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	I think this is my last interruption, if I counted correctly. We agree. I do not know if that was a quote from the article, but if you scatter if it does not freeze, it is also bad for the environment. That seems pretty ineffective to me. But they did make a strong plea not to exclude this despite the small percentage. I just heard you say 'you can't say one thing and do the other', but if you choose that public health, even a small percentage could be very useful. I wonder how you look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	We have never been fundamentally opposed to corona admissions, but what we have always done is to ask for the justification. That is why we have also tabled the motion that led to the TU Delft report. That is different from some parties, including Mrs Paulusma's party, who said before the 2G bill, before there was one letter on paper, that we support it. We have never done that, but we have said that if we introduce far-reaching measures, then that justification must stand as a house. That report finally came. This shows that there has always been too positive thought about 3G and 2G, especially with a much more contagious omikron variant. Next, it is up to us to take a political look at the effects of this type of action, but also to look at the fundamental rights of people. If I make that assessment, I do find 3G to be totally irrelevant, let alone 2G to this point. We should focus on measures that work, and that is why we are always calling for protective measures, for example, for people with vulnerable health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is opening up again. The pandemic isn't over yet, but the circumstances are favourable. Thanks to this high degree of immunity and the less sickening omicron variant, a lot is suddenly possible again. Fortunately, the towering contamination rates are well off track with the low number of hospital admissions and ic-recordings. The government can and may act strictly to protect public health, but at the moment when these virus measures have a greater impact on society than the virus itself, the government must also withdraw. But that is exciting, because we have learned from previous waves that relaxation must go hand in hand with great caution. Behavioural scientists warn that basic measures and rules are very difficult to implement once you have abolished them. Vulnerable people rightly wonder whether infections can still be prevented and whether they can still prevent them. Long covid is a real risk to society as a whole. The Party for Animals is really missing a plan B right now. A new virus variant, decreasing immunity and a dance-with-Janssen scenario in the nighthoreca are just some examples of what can still go wrong. In abolishing some of those basic measures, we know that there will be issues of compliance with the remaining rules. We would therefore like to hear what scenarios are being taken into account and how they are being prepared for this in the future. In addition, we have serious doubts about the restraining measures that the Minister has introduced, particularly over the period of only one week between the relaxations. That is far from enough to assess the effect of that one week. Can the Minister reflect on that? Why was it chosen for one week? Why is that mouth cap almost completely abolished, as GroenLinks did earlier? And why should homework advice be reduced so far? The release of the 1.5 metres for entrepreneurs, so that they can reopen their business, is, of course, quite understandable. But also respect that people like to keep that distance because of their own health. Does the Minister consider that it is now sufficiently clear that the 1.5 metres are still being advised, even if it is no longer a duty? We think there's still a little communication on top of this to let society know. Of course, we are very pleased that the Ctb is finally being abolished, but we would like the Minister to simply exclude the possibility of Ctb in the future. We'd like to see a response to this. Why can't that happen soon? We are also curious about the development of 1G for events and nighthoreca. It would be good to completely disconnect 1G from the ctb. As far as we are concerned, that is good for restoring confidence. It is a pity that the cabinet has held on to the ctb for so long and so cramped and that no priority has been given to setting up a much more finer testing system where you could test at any corner of the street for example. I wonder if this is going to happen for the events and the nighthoreca. Last year, testing for access was not exactly an undivided success. What lessons does this minister draw from his predecessor's mistakes in testing for access? Mr. Chairman. It's been discussed a lot today. The Wob documents show that VWS has modified a number of OMT opinions. That is also a very bad thing for us. The independence of the OMT, those important club scientists we've been going through a whole crisis, is under discussion. The mere appearance of influence really causes a fundamental breach of confidence. How did this happen? That's what I'm asking the Minister. I'm really curious about the reflection on that. We therefore want, as GroenLinks said, to have all the documents related to this from the Minister. They must come to the Chamber as soon as possible. As far as we're concerned, the bottom stone has to be above to restore the breach of confidence. The OVV report that has been presented today and which many have already talked about is not a lie either. Of course, we are going to carefully study the almost 300-page report. But it is clear that two years ago, the Netherlands was not well prepared for a pandemic, despite the fact that we had for 12 years, a thick report of recommendations on how to do better and better. Mr. Chairman. We're still not here. The pandemic was caused by the way humans treat animals. The Bekedam Committee's recommendations have been collecting dust since July last year. These can actually be summarized as a call for a fundamental review of our relationship with animals in order to reduce the risk of new infectious diseases. The GGD has also been ringing the bell for months. Corona has made the health deficits worse, especially in people who were already vulnerable. But the Tax Administration cannot even process a VAT reduction on fruit and vegetables. If the Minister is serious about pandemic preparedness, at least now he is going to radically change the course of events. We will be discussing this at length next week in the committee debate on zoonoses. We shall, of course, return to the report of the Bekedam Committee which is so essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	Thank you. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, of course, to our President and to Mrs Kuik. We miss them. At the same time, of course, the room is always brightened up when you are sitting there, Mr President. So thank you for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	You're too good!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	Well, we'll write that down. Mr. Chairman. So many Dutch people have made a huge effort over the past few months to try to prevent them from getting corona, to try to prevent them from infecting others, to take good care of people who are sick or who are very sick. This was done through measures that were followed wholeheartedly, but also through measures that really limited us or even hurt us. And then I think about entrepreneurs, for example. What an intense journey this has been! And still that trip isn't ready. But yesterday, in that light, there was a day of good news, a day when we saw that society can really go further. We do get sick of omikron, but less violent than the previous variants. And the high vaccination rate and the boosters: they help. The cabinet rightly opts for relaxations, for repealing the 2G legislative proposal and the Ctb education bill. The Christian Union Group believes that this is very good news. We've all been looking forward to these relaxations. The rack was getting more and more out, but still you can't force a disease to develop. So I'm just grateful for where we are now. Is everything perfect? No, of course not. There are still a lot of lessons to learn about what has gone wrong in the past two years. A first look at the OVV report also underlines this. I would like to have that debate, on this first part of the OVV report and on the issues arising from the Wob requests and relating to the same period. I'd like to involve him in that. I shared that with the committee via e-mail, Mr President. It is important that the Chamber prepares itself well for this debate, with all the information and with a cabinet response, including that OVV report, on the table. For now, for this debate, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions. Can he guarantee that the OMT will advise independently in the coming weeks and as long as it is still active, without interference from VWS with the results of that advice? Does he guarantee that the pressure on nursing care, on care in the neighborhood and in nursing homes will be closely monitored in the coming months? Because the question of care will increase. For example, this will require a great deal of nursing care. I would also ask him to be really generous with regard to personal protective equipment when vaccine effectiveness is reduced, so that there is never any fuss about it and the employees, and therefore the most vulnerable, are protected. And I would like to ask the Cabinet at what point it expects to respond to the OVV report, so that we can schedule that debate at a good time. Mr. Chairman. Back to today's debate. The cabinet clearly chooses to return to society of responsibility for each other. What a good starting point! Because, yes, even in the new era and without 1.5 meters and without mandatory mouth caps, we must continue to take good care of each other. And that doesn't mean you don't have to. How do we continue to promote this? Because, yeah, we all want to take good care of our grandmother. But will we also be careful if it's another older one? Not everyone knows if he or she is vulnerable. Now let's give each other space. Let us leave people who attach themselves to wearing a mask or to keeping their distance absolutely in their value and help them when necessary. 'Cause, yeah, it's still good to test you when you go to a vulnerable person. What will the cabinet do now so that vulnerable people do not have the experience of being alone? I'm thinking about communication. I am also thinking of graduations and advice. Are there any thoughts about hours for vulnerable people in the shops, for example, so that they can keep their distance and have a mouth cap on and go into the public domain in a safe way? How is the conversation with these groups conducted so that they are fully aware and involved at this stage? Mr. Chairman. In the previous Corona debate, my group pointed out that it is important that, if fundamental rights are restricted because of health, you do not linger in the ease that such instruments bring you into the management of potential risks, but that your freedoms really give you back. Because limiting freedom is the least you can do in advance. Already before the corona time we were familiar with the risk-regulation reflex, with the tendency to regard the constant reduction of risks, whether or not due to an incident, as a self-evident task. For the purpose of filling in the long-term toolbox, I should like to emphasise that risk. Instruments such as a ctb were at some point in this crisis helpful in opening up society earlier, but this should not become a new health check that could be used more easily. Therefore, for the Christian Union, the 1.5 meters as a temporary measure and where possible, were always more obvious than the ctb. I have stressed the issue of temporaryity and proportionality before. Proportionality is not a permanent weighting of some formula in the Ministry. No, it's a weighting, a fundamental rights test. How long can you limit freedoms in favour of public health, the protection of vulnerable people? And even more than a weighting of proportionality, I can see that the cabinet is putting more and more responsibility back into society, thereby doing justice to subsidiarity. I welcome that, because we are ready to do so. I believe that this aspect is essential for the development of the long-term strategy. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can also promise that this will become more important. And then the further development of testing is also very important, especially the self-testing. Because together with employers and trade unions, with the social partners, I see the profits there for the coming seasons too. Do not close everything with government rules, but encourage each other to take good care of each other. I urge the Cabinet to remain open to the provision of self-tests and their accessibility in this light. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to my last paragraph. The Health Council confirmed this week that some groups in society have suffered a dent in their mental health due to corona. Promoting mental health is something of a long-term process, and the council recommends that funding be adapted to it, so that local initiatives, for example, do not stop after a year, when the subsidy is up. What will the Cabinet do with this advice? And by the way, I believe that vaccine inequality in the world is still unbearable, and that the rich West can make much more work out of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Gideon van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are proud, but not satisfied, because we have won a battle, but the battle has not yet been fought. With massive protests, civil disobedience, petitions, convoys and many other actions, millions of freedom-loving Dutch people have recently sent out a very important signal, namely that we do not silently watch a tyrannical government pull more and more control towards them; that we do not let ourselves be enslaved without battling; that we are combatable and united. The police and the Public Prosecutor warned a few weeks ago that resistance was in danger of becoming out of control, that there was no longer any repressive action against continuing effective enforcement. In short, resistance makes sense. In order not to lose the very last bit of credibility, therefore, the cabinet had no choice but to scale down the measures. It's no surprise, especially with the municipal elections coming up. But we won't let them make us happy with a dead sparrow. Although the measures are being scaled down, they are not actually being abolished. Corona is still regarded as an "A" disease, and the emergency law simply remains in full force. So the mouth cap obligation, the one-and-a-half meter rule, the discriminatory corona pass, the maximum group size, all the measures are "set in the fridge" as it is then called "make it idle for a moment," but can all be activated with the utmost ease. We are at the mercy of the Secretary of State's whims. The cabinet already points out that in the next variant the discriminatory QR code will be mandatory again within no time. It is not a question of whether, but of when it will happen again. There is a reason why 30 million is still being invested to develop the app. And far-reaching preparations are also being made internationally for very far-reaching legal obligations in the field of infectious disease control: extending the mandatory QR code to travel, proposing the introduction of a digital identity card; both the World Health Organisation and the European Union are fully engaged in this. Does the Minister agree that the Netherlands should always remain in charge of our own public health and our own policies in this area? Can the Minister under no circumstances agree to EU legislation or international conventions that violate this? As far as policy is concerned, the evidence has so far accumulated that there has been deliberate violation of the law. We've been deliberately lied to and deceived. We have been illegally deprived of our fundamental rights. We now know that the Minister and his officials knew that there was no democratic legitimacy for fundamental rights restrictions, i.e. that the policy was unlawful, but that they chose not to inform the Chamber about this. We now know that it was openly discussed how citizens could be manipulated by holding a sausage. We're considered stupid assholes who can be manipulated with hypocritical communication tricks. It's too scumbag for words. The cesspool is being extended further and further. It stinks on all sides. Then the OMT. For two years, the OMT has advised the cabinet to defend all restrictions of freedom. Anyone who questioned the independence of the OMT, who did not participate in the RIVM's sanctification, would have seen the seat legs of the rule of law. But now it appears that the Ministry itself has destroyed the rule of law by undermining the OMT in violation of the law and dictating itself what should be in those OMT opinions. Van Dissel did what he was asked to do. Finally, Mr President. Under the present circumstances, it is not a question of whether or not we are once again deprived of our fundamental rights and freedoms. If at some point that doesn't work under the guise of corona, another so-called danger will be created. Because the roll-out of the globalist agenda of the World Economic Forum has not been iced. Klaus Schwab's Great Reset agenda must and will be realized. He called corona a great opportunity. But if corona no longer offers opportunity, another opportunity will be created. The Democracy Forum will not rest until all measures have been permanently abolished, corona is no longer classified as A disease and the emergency law has been repealed. We will not rest until the digital infrastructure that has been rigged, with which Dutch people can be excluded from society at the push of a button, has been completely destroyed, just like all the data collected. And we will not rest until the child vaccination campaign is stopped, once our democracy is restored, as soon as the truth about the real reasons for the corona policy has come to light and as soon as justice has taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij is. Oh, there's another question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	I find it almost particularly funny to see how Forum draws it to itself that we are not going to introduce any more measures. I would like to ask Mr Van Meijeren whether it is not possible that it has to do with many people being tested, that they stay at home with complaints, that care workers work their way around to protect the vulnerable and that we simply have a milder variant of the virus. Could that not be a reason why the cabinet decides to scale down the measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	The simple answer to that question is no. This is highly unacceptable, because during this whole pandemic we can see that we are dealing with a virus that is not much more dangerous than ordinary flu, and that the measures that are being taken, both at home and abroad, have little or no influence on the epidemiological situation. We also see that there is arbitrariness. There are states in the US where all measures were scaled down over a year ago, all measures were completely abolished, and the way the virus developed was exactly the same as in other states. So to pretend that these measures have made it quieter in hospitals, is totally unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	I think this is a special answer, especially when we look at the situation in hospitals, the situation in nursing homes, when we look at the excess mortality rate over the past year and at what the surrounding countries have done. I would like to conclude by saying that I also find it extremely funny how Forum deals with the facts. I also find it remarkable to see news sources such as Nieuwsuur, which are called in other places for spreaders of fake news, suddenly seen here as a reliable source when it comes out. I'm just gonna close my interruption with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	Fine. That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	I myself have studied those documents that Nieuwsuur reports about. I didn't even mention Newsuur just now, but Newsuur has reported about it. I've been studying those documents myself. We have all been able to see with our own eyes how contemptuous Dutch people are being talked about there. We don't need news hours for that. News hours have now brought it to light. We are having the debate on this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	I find it striking that the spokesman for the Forum, Mr Van Meijeren, describes corona as flu, while he has also seen the Nieuwsuur pieces. In that he will also have seen that his foreman, Mr Baudet, has even forwarded offers to the Ministry for the purchase of mouth caps. I didn't know Forum wanted to spread mouth caps for a common flu. So it's an educational debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	That's a very valid point. In the first few months of the corona virus, it was unclear how dangerous corona actually is. Then Forum for Democracy even advocated a two-week lockdown with the obvious reason to learn more about the virus, to scale up care and to learn more about capacity. At some point it became clear that corona is no more dangerous than a common flu. That is now recognized by friend and enemy. As a result, the whole precautionary principle, in which we wanted to take the necessary measures as a precautionary measure, does not appear to be necessary. Then you're gonna have to quit as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can also speak in this debate on behalf of Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21, who, unfortunately, cannot be present. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote. "It is now clear that corona will remain among us for some time and that the current way of handling the virus is not sustainable for the long term." This is a quote from the letter from Minister Kuipers of 8 February. I have to say, this is what we're getting from the heart. We have had a debate on this for a long time. We have long argued for a different approach to the coronavirus. We wholeheartedly support that approach, that course. We would like to go further along this road and also see a more concrete perspective on ending the temporary corona law, because that is part of our vision. Scaling is good, but in the end it is better to abolish. The government's promise has always been that far-reaching measures and laws would not be in force longer than necessary. That is a valid starting point. It is now up to us to deliver on that promise. The government needs to get back in the loft. The cabinet changes the objectives of the corona policy. There will be two equal and secondary goals: social and economic continuity and vitality, called chic, and accessibility of the whole care chain for everyone. We support that. I also ask the Minister whether these new policy objectives are valid for both the short and the long term. In concrete terms, if a new variant appears in the coming months, which seems a little more sickening and perhaps more contagious than the present one, what does the cabinet do with this review than it has done so far? Are we gonna go into a cramp again and then we're gonna go back to a blunt lockdown? Mr. Chairman. On March 1, the temporary corona law expires. How does the cabinet's intention to extend this temporary crisis law for another three months relate to the new policy objectives, which are precisely aimed at learning how to live with the coronavirus? As far as we are concerned, if we are going to standardize economic and social relations, this must also apply to political and administrative relations. Again, scaling down is good, but abolishing it is better. Quitting legal obligations does not mean that there is no need for any action at all. Today, people who are involved, including all of us personally, have rightly expressed: pay attention, there is still a group of Dutch people for whom corona really poses a threat to health. I would also like to emphasise this: yes, it is the responsibility of all of us to be careful for them, and with that for all of us. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that the motion of the Chamber is carried out and the 2G law is repealed. I would add that we sometimes forget in our political-administrative world here that it was really experienced by many people as an exciting sword by Damocles that this was still in the pipeline and that it really helps if you give clarity, so thank you for that. Yesterday in the Court of Justice of the Hague a further ruling was reached on the coronapas. The application to prohibit it was rejected. However, I found the considerations interesting, which explicitly cited Article 58ra, second paragraph, part a of the Public Health Act. It states that the corona pass should only be required on the basis of a vaccination certificate if it can be established that it has a comparable risk of transmission of the virus to a negative test. We know that the booster shot only partially protects against virus transmission. What does that mean right now for the corona pass in the 3G variant? Is the legal provision I have just mentioned still being complied with? Should the provision of the QR code based on vaccination not be stopped immediately? What significance does this have for the European corona certificate? (NL) Mr President, I would like to conclude by addressing the debate that has also taken place in connection with the news about OMT and VWS. For two years, the cabinet based the corona policy on the advice of the OMT. Time and time again it was emphasised that the OMT operates completely independently, but from the documents and everything that emerged from them, it appears that officials from the VWS also interfered with the content of OMT opinions. They managed to change an OMT advice at a crucial point, making elderly people less well protected in nursing homes. I've been looking at the RIVM Law again. It stipulates that research and advice from the Institute should be genuinely independent. That is also a legal requirement, Article 5. Science and politics should not mix too much, was also the right background to that article. If that happens, the rule of law will be at stake. It's good to get some clarity about this. The Minister will have to provide a crystal clear explanation for his ministry's actions. That's what we long for. I ask the Minister whether it is not obvious to ask the Supervisory Committee, which, in accordance with Article 7, first paragraph of the RIVM Act, is responsible for monitoring the scientific level of RIVM and the independence of the investigation, to investigate the independence of these OMT opinions and to inform the Chamber about them in the near future, so that we can also involve them in the follow-up discussions on this matter. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	Thank you. Then Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr President. For two years, the world has been under the spell of the corona crisis. For two years, Corona policy has been deeply wounded in our society. For two years, the Netherlands has been fooled, fooled and flashed on parts of the corona policy. Now that the end is coming after two years and the most abhorrent, freedom-limiting measures are coming off, I feel a little more optimism in society. My group naturally welcomes relaxation. Mr. Chairman. However, it remains incomprehensible that the cabinet should continue to adhere to the Temporary Law measures covid-19, the emergency law that has long since ceased to be temporary. It remains scandalous that the cabinet continues to hold on to the corona pass in the toolbox, while research shows that this instrument is not working. It's like dragging a broken, heavy drill hammer with you in your toolbox and every time trying to get it to work, to finally come back to the conclusion that it doesn't work. Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group will remain critical. This is now more necessary than ever, because as more and more information on how to deal with the corona crisis is emerging, it is also necessary to reflect critically on the corona policy pursued. This morning, the destructive report of the Security Research Council was presented. The Netherlands was not sufficiently prepared for the crisis. Too little thought had been given to the social consequences. At the beginning there was too little attention to the situation in the nursing homes, which led to a silent disaster there. The OMT had too much power instead of an advisory role. Communication was too one-sided and too definite. And there was a lot more of this kind of shit. Mr. Chairman. The critical minority in this Chamber has appointed all these subjects over the last two years and put forward proposals for improvement, but was defeated by the arrogance of power. On this point, therefore, I have only one task for the Minister, given the reaction of his predecessor. I would ask him to accept all the conclusions of the OVV report without exception, to adopt all the recommendations without delay and to come up with a plan for learning and improving before the summer. Mr. Chairman. The documents delivered to Nieuwsuur under the Public Administration Act show that the House of Representatives and the Netherlands have been tricked over and over again. Compliments to the journalists who have fought over and over again with the minister's predecessor to demand transparency. I also understand now why the previous minister opposed the journalists and did not want to give them any openness. He even appealed to the Council of State not to give journalists an insight into his own failure. Mr. Chairman. 'Cause what does the released information tell us? When there was talk in May 2020 of the support for the measures and concerns about whether people would stick to them, the message was: if people are told a sausage when they follow the measures, less freedom-limiting measures will be needed in the future. The Dutch say a sausage: what a dedain, what arrogance, what contempt for the Dutch people. Mr. Chairman. In May 2020, only two months after the first infection in the Netherlands, plans for the introduction of a corona pass were already unfolded. This was kept from me. But this isn't the only thing that wasn't told. When the emergency law was discussed, the Ministry was aware that the restrictions on fundamental rights were based on a shaky basis, but they were added immediately: but we do not say that. Information has been deliberately withheld, while everyone on their clogs felt that this was wrong. Once again, the critical minority pointed out this time and again in this Chamber, but it was voted out by the arrogance of power. Mr. Chairman. For two years, it was claimed in this Chamber that the OMT was independent. Opinions were taken without any criticism. The doom scenarios and models, on which, for example, the curfew and the lockdowns were based, were subject to a lot of criticism: here in the Chamber, but also in society. Even the group of DENK could not imagine that the OMT would lend itself to acting as a kind of extended communication officer of the department. Whole passages were added by the department to OMT opinions, including spelling errors. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's reaction was also indicative. Please let him stop with meaningless quotes, for example that we have to understand the pressure the officials have had to experience on his department. Of course, everyone understands people who do their jobs under difficult circumstances, but that can and should never be the reason to pretend that people are retarded, by using sentences as "preventing a sausage" or by withholding information about something fundamental like the restriction of fundamental rights? It is not the officials who are responsible for this, I would like to emphasise here, but the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Some things I don't understand and I probably never will. The Minister wants to invest almost EUR 30 million in the corona apps in 2022, on top of the EUR 23 million that this has already cost the taxpayer. Why would you invest more money in a control system that is not expected to be necessary for much longer? Are we really going more and more towards a control society, which various scientists fear? Ode to science, I heard today. Like Michael Phil, associate professor at University College in London. He claims that there is a great chance that we will end up with a health infrastructure that no longer solves the problem for which it was intended, but which can be used by government and industry for very different purposes. Or associate professor Privacy Jaap-Henk Hoepman, at Radboud University of Nijmegen. He argues that the danger of the QR code is not so much the violation of privacy as the normalization of health controls. Mr President, concluding. That is a matter of principle for DENK. We do not want a surveillance society where one citizen has to control the other citizen without any mandate. I am counting on the Minister to state in his reply that he does not want to go in that direction either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Den Haan from the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. We're gonna go back to relaxing. We're even gonna let go of most of the corona measures. As good as that is, I'm a little concerned about the speed with which we're going to relax and with that also about the most vulnerable people in our society, such as elderly people with multiple diseases, which makes them very vulnerable, but also the people who are immunely compromised. These people have been extremely careful for two years; some have been living in isolation for two years, such as the supporters of the group Don't forget us, Ernst! They have already drawn attention to their situation on several occasions. I know that the Minister is in the process of implementing my adopted motion to make preventive therapies available to these people, so that they can be protected as soon as possible. Don't forget us, Ernst! underlines the urgency, but there is still no prospect of protecting these people. In many countries this need is recognised and in several countries, such as France and America, these patients are already being protected. The production process of long-acting antibodies is complex. As a result, there is only a very limited supply worldwide for this year. The longer the Netherlands waits, while other countries take action, the more uncertain it becomes for these vulnerable patients in the Netherlands. It is also unclear whether they will be able to have access to good protection this year. I understand that at the moment it is no longer possible to guarantee extra supplies. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore also important that the VWS Ministry should act quickly, especially for the most vulnerable patients. For them, the urgency is very high. The Ministry of VWS and the RIVM have been aware of this for a long time, but have missed deadlines on several occasions to effectively secure sufficient stock for this year. I read in the Minister's letter that the Ministry is waiting for joint European procurement on the regular route. But that makes us the nicest kid in the class. Other countries do not do this and there is a good chance that we will be fishing behind the net in the Netherlands. Can the Minister guarantee that, in the short term, the strategy chosen by the Netherlands will ensure adequate preventive therapies for the most vulnerable patients in the Netherlands? If he cannot give that guarantee, does he think it is worth the gamble to stick to this strategy, where other countries are protecting their vulnerable groups and already applying these preventive therapies? Mr. Chairman. There is another vulnerable group I am concerned about, namely those who make use of the personal budget. They have a huge problem. Because of their vulnerability, for example through organ transplantation, people with home ventilation, kidney dialysis, problems with the immune system, their caregivers have to comply with even stricter quarantine rules and therefore they cannot work more often. These caregivers therefore lack income. The pgb-holders are very concerned about this because they do not want their aid workers to leave. Can the Minister ensure that payment for care not provided can be extended by six months, with retroactive effect from 1 January? Mr. Chairman. We've heard it a number of times today. Things are coming up and in the press about dealing with the corona crisis that has not gone well in the past period. This morning's report from the Security Research Council. Quite rightly, we should discuss this with each other. As far as I am concerned, we are debating it together in one big debate, where all these issues, results of Wob requests and reports, can be fully discussed and we can see the broad context with each other. But I really do want to make one appeal here today. From my previous position, along with ActiZ, I have constantly drawn attention to the situation of the elderly and the care staff in nursing homes and home care since the start of the corona crisis. When it comes to the fight against infectious diseases, the focus has mainly been on hospitals, but that was and is only the tip of the iceberg. More than half of the deaths occurred in nursing homes and care for the elderly. It remains a painful observation that the choices made have had profound consequences. It was not so much a lack of lobbying power on the part of these organisations, but a lack of structure. The lobby of all parties in long-term care was in itself heard by VWS, but there was also not enough listening to their own management Long-term Care, and the OMT focused on hospitals and the ic's. But care for the elderly in the Netherlands is with more than 2,350 locations, 120,000 residents and almost half a million employees, and also with those people who work and receive care, much larger, more diverse, more complex and different from the hospitals. I would therefore like to draw particular attention to the Minister for this sector, who is still in a particularly difficult situation today; and who is having difficulty getting the schedules around because of the enormous absence of illness, which means that the quality of care cannot be properly guaranteed. I'm going through it very closely. I regularly work day shifts on weekends in a rehabilitation center, in residential care centers. There we sometimes stand with two to three people out of 28 heavy patients who need to be revalidated, who can't do anything themselves. If I've worked two day shifts on weekends, I'm physically really broken, but also mentally frustrated because the care we really need to provide doesn't provide. I can see that my colleagues are really going through that. So I would like to end by asking the Minister if he will promise me that the focus should really be on the core, not just on the short-term but also on the long-term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	Very good. Then Mrs Simons from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian No, I'm making a mistake. Excuse me. It's Mrs. Van der Plas' turn. I'm sorry about that. Boss above boss, there's a call. I'm just quoting it. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	That's kind of nice, 'cause boss over boss is BBB. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, citizens and citizens of the Netherlands, and people in the gallery, of course. The flags were almost hanging out yesterday at the press conference. We had to be happy with the relaxations. Happy, that's a bit like someone's borrowing $15,000 from you, giving back $10,000 after two years and saying, "Aren't you glad I gave you back some money?" Because freedom isn't back. The removal of freedom is still in the toolbox. Right next to the terrible ctb, the coronapas that has literally been preached as a sausage to people as a freedom pass. The pass with the green check mark, the pass with the green check mark of freedom instead of responsibility. But it is especially the pass with the green tick of division. Mr. Chairman. We're not free yet. We are free when the ctb ends up in the history books forever. We are free if we are able to live again without division by taking our responsibility, following the basic measures. We'll be free if you don't have to be afraid to be locked up in your own house anymore. We'll be free if you don't have to be afraid of a check on whether or not you're keeping to the quarantine. We are free if there is no vaccination urge. We are free if freedom is not used as a decoy to take a booster shot. We are free when young people no longer have to infect each other on purpose, so that they can get a proof of recovery and see their friends again at the café. We'll be free when there's no more ban on hugging your grandmother or grandmother. We'll be free if there's no more prohibition of sports. We are free when parents are no longer forbidden to take their child to swimming lessons. We are free if for certain groups it is no longer forbidden to sit on the terrace. We are free as people who cannot be vaccinated can always and permanently participate in society. We'll be free if we can celebrate Christmas, a birthday or a wedding with whoever we want. We are free if we can bury or cremate our loved ones with all their loved ones around them. We are free as no one else has to die alone, because visitors are forbidden. We are free if you can open your store every morning without restrictions. We'll be free when there's no more division. We are free when families, groups of friends and associations are healed again. We are free when taking a shot or not is a real free choice. We'll be free if you're not called prikwappie anymore, or antivaxer, just because you have a different opinion. We are free when children are no longer told that they can make their grandfather or grandmother sick, or even die. We're free when kids can go to school casually every day. We are free if we can travel without being sent away at the border. We're free if you don't have to apply for TVL, Tozo or NOW anymore. We are free if you as a bar manager, theatre director or festival organizer can open your doors for everyone. We are free as vaccinees no longer claim that thanks to their efforts the virus has been overcome. We are also free when unvaccinated people no longer say that the measures will disappear as a result of their struggle. We'll be free when we start listening to each other again. We are free when there is no polarization between people who want and do not want a shot. We'll be free if we start helping each other again. We'll be free when we get respect for each other's choices again. We are free if we consider the vulnerable at all times. We are free if we no longer have to applaud care workers who are working the snot in front of our eyes to this day. We are free when we ensure that the number of beds is once and for all in order. We are free if we make sure that the care gets the appreciation he deserves, structuralally, financially and emotionally. We are free when the care is in order so that everyone gets the care he deserves. We are free if we no longer accept that groups of people are excluded on the basis of their free choices. We will be free if the coalition parties stop blocking the opposition if it makes requests for clarification from the cabinet. We'll be free when society has confidence in the government again. We are free as police officers and boas no longer have to pass fines if someone doesn't stick to the five feet. We are free when police and boas can focus on their real tasks: ensuring a safe country. We are free as the cabinet once and for all just to tell the truth. We'll be free when the active memories come back to work. We'll be free if we all cherish our freedom again. We'll be free if we can put the black page called covid behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you. Will you stand still? There is another question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	Of course, this sounds like a very nuanced story. Of course, I agree with a great many of Mrs Van der Plas's points. I also want us to get rid of the corona measures, protect the vulnerable, sit on a terrace with each other. But the reality is that it is sometimes difficult to reconcile. That, because of the need to protect vulnerable people, measures should sometimes be taken, however regrettable that may be. I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas whether she agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	In that sense, I agree with Mrs Westerveld that, as in the past few months, I too am based on what Mr Van Dissel says: if we all just stick to the basic measures, we would have been out of the crisis a long time ago. I've said that before. The point is that we take responsibility and that people who are not feeling well think: then I do not go to the cinema, because there is a chance that I will infect someone, and that makes someone else sick. That doesn't mean I think anyone with a brat should stay home. Then you go to a society that's afraid to get sick. The heavy lockdowns, the ctb or the coronapas and that horrible 2G are happy for the time being off the table. But let's stick to the coronapas. The coronapas has caused incredibly much division and collateral damage. When it was introduced in September, that simply did not help. Mrs Westerveld could see that, too. The infections then shot up. So: measures? Yes. But as far as I am concerned, let us stick to the basic measures. If people want to wear a mouth cap, do it. If you think you can keep people safe with that, or if you think that's safe with yourself, I think you should. People who want to be vaccinated: fine, do it voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	Of course, that's not my point. Of course, I want us all to stick to the basic measures, but part of it is wishful thinking. Of course, we have to take on the responsibility of people ourselves, but I am glad that the cabinet, for example, maintains the obligation to speak in public transport, because some vulnerable people have no choice but to use public transport. Then Mrs van der Plas can say: let everyone be free to do so, but that does not give a vulnerable person the freedom to travel by public transport. That's my point. Sometimes, unfortunately, measures need to be introduced by the public authorities, precisely to protect the freedom of vulnerable groups in this country. The government has to do this sometimes, however regrettable, because the freedom of one another is at the expense of the freedom of the other, and of that very group, which we unfortunately overlook very often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	The mask in public transport is not the problem. The big problem has been the ctb, which simply excluded groups of people. Mrs Westerveld and I have been fighting this battle for years, for example for people who cannot be vaccinated. Disabled children who are in the city with their parents and who simply are not allowed into a cafe if one of them has to go to the bathroom, because they do not have a green check mark. That's the problem. The problem is polarization, division and the urge for vaccination. Let yourself be pricked, then you can still go to the café "I've heard it say here today too" and society can open up again. No, we're here to protect the health of the vulnerable. All the measures we are taking should have been aimed at: how do we protect the vulnerable, keep the care in order and how do we keep an eye on the virus? Fortunately, we are now also looking at mental, psychological and economic conditions. A mouth cap in the bus isn't the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	Clear. Thank you. As already announced, Mrs Simons of the BET1 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two years ago. Two years of lies and deceit. Political choices that cost thousands of lives. That is the corona policy of the Netherlands in a nutshell. I've been talking since day one about the anti-scientific mission to strive for unfeasible group immunity. There was no choice at any time to combat the virus decisively. In fact, the choice was made explicitly not to do so. And this, so this week became known again, while science warned of the enormous danger. In February 2020, it was already known that the coronavirus was classified as a "catastrophic threat to national security." This classification is given to situations that could result in more than 10,000 deaths. However, Mr. Van Dissel and others within the RIVM lied about this. We didn't have to worry. And two years later, thanks to the choice to spread the virus as long as hospitals could carry it, the number was quadrupled tragically. That designation turned out to be uncivilized, by the way. But yes, what to expect in a country where the ministry has influence on scientific advice. Advice on masks in care for the elderly, among other things. That has undoubtedly cost more lives than was necessary. For that, I think the Ministry is directly responsible. But unfortunately, it's not new. On the contrary, unfortunately, I have to say. It is a fundamental problem of political considerations that have been consistently made for two years. The dream of the cabinet and of Van Dissel about group immunity was, and is, anti-scientific and runs counter to the protection of public health. That's why I tabled a motion of censure earlier. Unfortunately, I did not get any support for this, just as I did not get any support for my constant demand to at least discuss the strategy, but better discuss a change of strategy. We have constantly let the cabinet get away with these conscious choices. And it's still going on now. Many Members of Parliament seem to be mainly looking for the end point, from a human desire that we all share. However, this has been reflected in debates on specific measures for several weeks, rather than on the overall issue. The Chamber has once again been deceived by the cabinet, by the false frame that is milder to omikron. I ask everyone: keep your eyes on the ball, because there is still much more at stake. For example, tens of thousands of people are potentially getting long covid. Recently it became clear that a corona infection can lead to 80% more risk of heart problems. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we will finally stop with the validistic frame that corona is only dangerous for people at risk. Just getting corona has made tens of thousands of healthy people without mercy part of those risk groups. Those are the risks we consciously take by letting the virus go around for two years. It is our job as a chamber to finally call the cabinet to account for this. 'Cause if we don't, the poison cup's gonna be really empty. All measures will disappear: no longer need to keep mouth caps and distance, testing will be scaled down and everyone will be left to their own devices. Insofar as this is not yet the case, it is now, in any case, official every man for himself. The locks open and you better hope you don't drown. But what if you're part of the risk group? So you depend on whether someone can tell by the tip of your nose that you're vulnerable and decide to keep five feet away. The very last bit of safety, often hanging from a thin thread, is now completely disappearing. For many, that is truly the difference between life and death. The Minister and his policy seem to think differently, but I really want to stress that these people are not dry timber. If we care about human lives, we must maintain the basic measures, at least in public indoor spaces. Mr. Chairman. So what's the big goal now? We must now conclude that contamination is acceptable in the eyes of the Minister, with all the risks that have just been outlined. Don't get me wrong: I'm not arguing for everything to be completely closed down again. You can't do that anymore. The choice was made to infect virtually everyone. We're all gonna get it, and I'm afraid we can't undo it anymore. After all, the policy chosen has led to an illusion. But there is an essential difference that literally translates into human lives between the steps that are now being taken or in a responsible way searching for opportunities. And please, let us keep the basic measures. I really think that's the least we can do. Unfortunately, this Minister is not going to do that. His choice has already been made, as with his predecessor: hope that group immunity will one day work and in mean time, meanwhile, cause irreversible damage. If we had chosen to contain, to prevent contamination, to protect public health, to communicate fairly about the challenges that go with it, to show solidarity, to protect that general public health, our situation could have looked so much different today. But unfortunately it wasn't meant to be. On the basis of this misinformation, commonly referred to as 'lies', malpractice and recent policy documents which confirm the same thing as BEL1, I say again today confidence in the government and its policy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you. Then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. Enough is enough. For two years we have suffered from scared drivers who have taken away our freedoms as if it were nothing, by a cabinet that has introduced corona measures that have caused enormous medical, economic and psychological damage. These measures had no impact whatsoever on the spread of the virus. Does the Minister agree with BVNL that there is no longer a state of emergency, that covid still wrongly has the A status, that there is therefore no longer any reason to violate our fundamental rights and that the emergency law can therefore be removed immediately? Mr. Chairman. Some Members of Parliament want to declare 25 February a holiday, because a number of freedoms that had been taken away from us will then be returned. That's bullshit! As far as BVNL is concerned, 25 February will be held accountable. Mistakes aren't allowed, the people aren't fooled. The government that got out of hand is handing out a few more fakes just before the municipal elections. It couldn't be more embarrassing. Right away, we're welcome to receive more than four people. How dare you? The 3G-QR pass simply remains in force until February 25th and then with 1G for meetings with more than 500 people inside. What a goddamn spider! Can the Minister explain where that arbitrary line of 500 people comes from? And can the Minister explain why the quarantine obligation goes from seven to five days and not to three or all the way to zero? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to hear why the Minister thinks that masks should remain mandatory in public transport. That's nice for Marxist moral narcissists, but humiliating for all free Dutch. Why can't all the relaxations be introduced immediately today? Why hold the people for another ten days? As far as BVNL is concerned, we will stop all measures immediately. Throw away your mouth caps, remove the corona app and all stop testing. Live in freedom again. Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of rumors about pandemic preparedness. Angry tongues claim that the Minister will soon transfer our sovereignty in this area to the EU. Can the Minister explain what's going on here? Mr. Chairman. We had already failed PCR tests, false registrations, fake news about vaccinations and vaccination damage, hallucinating predictions of RIVM and concealed reports that showed that lockdowns were bad for society. Now there are: the influence of the OMT by the cabinet and Wob requests which show that in a scandalous way officials were looking for ways of secretly restricting our fundamental rights. The mischief, the deception, the lies and the damage are too great to think lightly about. BVNL wants a crystal clear explanation of these two matters from the minister in which he gives an acceptable explanation for this appalling deception and these shameless lies. If he cannot give it, BVNL will again submit a motion of censure in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	Thank you. A question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	What I missed a bit in Mr Van Haga's speech on the OVV report is that it did not really look at the collateral damage of all measures. That is a particular point of criticism. I was actually wondering how BVNL sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	As you know, I only have three minutes. Mr Omtzigt made a wonderful speech on this yesterday. I would advise everyone to look at that again, because I am indeed standing here as a C Chamber member. I would have liked to elaborate on this. Over the last two years, we have always tabled motions requesting that the collateral damage be included. The OVV report also talks about this. It also says that the tunnel vision or focus on the virus led to a lack of awareness of the side damage. In the first instance, the OVV talks primarily about the medical collateral damage: cancer patients who were not diagnosed and treated, heart patients who could not be treated. But of course we also have the economic collateral damage: 2 million entrepreneurs were flushed down the well. And there's also the psychological collateral damage: suicides among young people. It's a big drama. I would have liked to have named it. Thank you for this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	Very good. In this case! So far. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fundamental rights are returning to the Netherlands. You have to put the Constitution on the wall to remind us that citizens have fundamental rights, which you can temporarily suspend but which are never the property of a state, but it turns out that they are finally being respected. The 2G Act is off the table and the corona pass is not required now. But we still have a problem: we're still going to develop corona apps for 30 million. Yesterday it seemed that the Guidance Committee on Digital Support, which had so clearly stated that it was not necessary, does not seem to exist anymore. What happened? Are critics being silenced? We'll keep that corona pass. Why? Because the European Union wants to extend it for a year. And we're gonna use it all over Europe. That is why, if the President allows me, I shall table a motion with many names under it in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	No, we have a second deadline to file motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	If I ask the Chamber for permission, I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	Yes, you can wipe my decision off the table. But then I want to have an order debate, because we...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	Almost everyone's underneath it, but okay. Then we'll do it in an order debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	Then I'd like to hear that, because that would be a little bit of an order debate. Well, let me think this through. The names are under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	This concerns the content, but I do not know whether the Chamber wants a motion to be tabled in the first term. I'm against it myself. I'll explain why, too. We're having a debate. So the speakers of the Chamber bring in something, they ask questions to the Minister in this case the ministers. That's what we're listening to. We're either shocked, or we're happy with it, or it raises questions. And on that basis, we come forward with a motion. So that is contrary to what we have here, to table a motion on this in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr. Chairman. The content of the motion would be to place a parliamentary reservation on the plan to extend the digital corona certificate by one year. It is a decision of the Chamber by which it asks the government to inform the Chamber before any action is taken, because this may mean that it stays through the back door. This means that within a few weeks we will have a debate on whether, and under what conditions, the government can agree to it, because the corona ticket then exists when you travel to Belgium or Germany, or to Italy, and we must agree to it. That was my proposal, but I'll leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	Yes, but I don't hear anything in your motivation that prevents you from simply submitting that in second term. It's, uh, let me put it this way, just a house-garden-and-kitchen motion, just a substantive motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr President, 'house-garden-and-kitchen'... I don't think the corona ticket is a house-garden-and-kitchen move.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	No, but it's just a motion in which the Chamber can express something, so I still think it should just be filed in second place. You think differently and you need a debate on the order of business. That's what I read on this one. I note that there is a 'Omtzigt' proposal, so baptized or so called, which means that this motion must be tabled in the first term. Let me look at the Chamber, see if that order of business proposal can count on a majority, and I read an order debate to that effect. So you can say, as I say to Members: do you agree or disagree with this Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omtzigd-Omzigd-Omitzigd-Omitzigd-Omitzigd-Omitzigd-Omitzigd? If there is a majority for that, we will do so in the first term. Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	No objection to this proposal by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	I can't do anything with that. Either you're in favour or you're against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	Then it's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	For.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. When I was thrown out of the VVD, I was allowed to file a motion in the first term...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	Yeah, but right now, for or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	I've often heard Mark Rutte file a motion in the first term. Of course I'm here for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	Well, hey, we're here. The egg is laid, poohpuh. But that's how it's gonna be night work, isn't it? Mrs. Van den Berg?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Chairman. My name is under the motion, but I believe that in a normal debate in the second term we will table the motions. So no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	No support. Mrs. Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	Support for the President's explanation. No first-term support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	Congratulations on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	No objection, therefore also support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, it is not necessarily necessary, but if Mr Omtzigt insists, I would like to grant him that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	So that's support, I suppose. Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	No objection either, so support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	Yes, and we'll do it by group, I'll tell you later, so you'll bring in your number of seats. I don't know if that's gonna make any difference, but still... Mrs. Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thanks for the encouragement, Mr. Chairman. But as far as I am concerned, this could have been done in second term. My name is under this motion. I do not want to lie down, but I think it could have been done in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	That is a very basic position, but do you support the Omzigt proposal or not? Nuance is nice, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	I said, "I don't want to lie down," so that's support. But I also give it to Mr Omtzigt: well, you have heard the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	Yeah, think about that, Mr. Ommzigt. Mrs. Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	I have no objection to filing, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	Yeah, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	So support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	So support, very good. Then there is a majority, and then the motion has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[decides to place a parliamentary reservation on the regulation proposing to extend the digital corona certificate by one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Hijink, Mr Agema, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Esch, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij, Mr Simons, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Haga and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1782]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr. Chairman. This is vitally important, how we proceed with this. Thanks for the support. And I also understand all the doubts about that. But I would like to make this a core of the policy, because it shows whether we need to show it. Mr. Chairman. What a difference a week makes! Two weeks ago, it was impossible to get a few days' delay to let 500,000 people lose their green check mark. Two weeks later, the corona pass is no longer required. It seems that there is no very clear line in government policy. Of course, we are all glad that some measures will lapse, the corona admission ticket first, but do we now have a medium-term plan if we need anything again? Is the ventilation improvement continued? Are the GGDs able to scale up and, if a booster is needed for a new variant, to booster 50-plussers on time? The alternative is that we scale everything down for the third time in one go. We've done that twice before in the pandemic. Then we come in one lockdown or we have the hated QR code. I choose the third way: to ensure that we do not allow all the vigilance to be lost. Will the government please do a lot of work on this? Mr. Chairman. We've had a report from the O.V.V. I really can't handle that in 30 seconds. Under the law, there is a six-month deadline for a response, but can I ask the government to respond to the recommendations within one month so that they can be dealt with here, with the Prime Minister and, exceptionally, with the Minister for Housing? Mr. Chairman. The Wob requests scared the hell out of me. I refer to the questions raised by previous colleagues. I have two final questions. One. Following the nose masks: are there any memos on state liability and has thought about it now that the protection has not been properly made available to people in the care, where people have died and where people have contracted long covid? Two. It is now really clear that investigations in the Netherlands, as well as advisory committees, must be independent. I have previously tabled a motion asking the WRR and the Academy for advice on how to ensure independent investigation and independent advice. Because there wasn't, we made the wrong decisions. The government has fooled itself not to guarantee that independence. The entire report of the OVV is full of the word "roll mixing." Is she prepared to ask for that advice from the WRR after all? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	Very good. Thank you. I'm suspending... Ms. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	I was just a little too quick with Mr Omtzigt. Mr Omtzigt spoke about a response to the OVV report within six months. Maybe he can explain that. Mr Omtzigt also mentioned independent research. What's that supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	The OVV law gives the government six months to answer. She can also postpone it for two more months. So it could take 12 months. Since it is by no means the case that we are completely out of this corona crisis, although we all hope so, I would like to have a reaction within one month. I would also very much like to hear from the government when it first received the report. Did that happen in the middle of November? Then why was there from mid-November until mid-February until we got this report? I am extremely curious about that. Did they happen to inform Mr Van Dissel about the report? Because I was also surprised that Mr Van Dissel said he only knew it for half a day. By independent research, I mean the following. If you really get independent advice we were hoping the OMT was independent then you get a nasty message from time to time. But it's nicer to take the bad news and then solve it, than to massage it away by constantly consulting each other. When I look at this from a distance, I refer to that word 'roll mix', which has been mentioned several times in the OVV report, and I see that we need bodies that say the obvious truth, even if it does not come true at some point. That's okay at all. In that case, we should not come up with a motion of censure every day if there is one which is not in line with opinion; I would add that immediately. But then we can think of solutions. That's why I asked for an opinion from the WRR and the Academy on how to make sure that the government's investigation into itself, whether it's about corona or the evacuation from Kabul, is independent. I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. I shall suspend until 4.30 p.m. and then we will listen to the answers of both ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	We're gonna listen to the minister. Mrs Van den Berg, what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	I just want to know how many interruptions we have towards the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u171	That's a very good question. Six, that's the answer. But that's not an obligation. If you do it with less, you'll score with the chairman, because I don't want to make it night work. It is a very good, business and professional debate, with few side roads. I want to hold on to that and be brief and pointy about this debate. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my introduction and answer the questions, I would first like to name a personal fact. I have seen and heard in the past week that members of your Chamber have described my staff as "scum." I heard during this sitting that they were personally held responsible for the death of residents of nursing homes. You may call me on anything, but that doesn't give a pass to department staff. I'd like to take this note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u173	In whose direction? I'm not aware of any evil. The Minister may know that I have at least addressed the Minister and his predecessors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u174	You can leave it at that; that is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u175	Yes, I'd like to leave it at that. I think the message is very clear. You may address me, but it doesn't give you a pass to make the department staff scum or personally hold them responsible for the death of residents of nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u176	Your point is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u177	In my reply, after an introduction, I will first address the questions that have been asked about the OMT. I will then respond very briefly to the OVV report. My colleague will go into this further. Then I will deal with the measures, in the long term, to care and to others. Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, we suddenly faced the biggest crisis of the past few decades in the Netherlands, in the surrounding countries and in many places in the world. This had an impact on almost every Dutchman and in all sectors: youth, catering, nightlife, business, etc. And also the care. When I speak for myself, it is a period in my entire career that may have touched me the deepest in the total. We had practiced this many times. There were protocols and so on, but we'd never seen it. And all of a sudden it was there. We had, of course, like everyone else, seen the images: first from China and shortly later from Northern Italy. And then came the first patient and very soon the next and the next. That was extremely impressive. I have been able to contribute to this in a previous role, but it is also a period during which every healthcare worker, and certainly every care professional, was consulted in person: what could I have done better? When I speak for myself, I have regularly, including in an earlier position, appointed at least one. That was because, although I had provided very large stocks of personal protective equipment in my own institution in the first images from China and Northern Italy, I had failed to advise colleagues from other hospitals, nursing homes and general practitioners in the region to do the same. That was in a setting in the Netherlands where it was customary at that time for healthcare institutions to buy their stocks themselves. I would have, but I failed to advise others. That I'm not on something I'm looking for, but that's something I blame myself to this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u178	I'll let the minister do his introduction and then I'll do the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I'm gonna keep going. During such a period, expert advice became very important. That was a guiding principle in our actions in many ways. This was true, for example, for guidance from the Federation of Medical Specialists, the Dutch Association for Intensive Care, with a pandemic protocol, other professional associations, other sectors and also from the OMT. These were guidelines and advice that had to be translated into practice on a regular basis: the situation of every day, the situation and the working methods of many people, each at their own level. From my own experience as a care manager and also as a member of a regional policy team of a security region, I know that such a translation was always an intensive process and that this also led to many practical questions. For example, many of these questions were asked to the ministry of VWS and thus also to an OMT. And that often led to discussion in a care field. This was done, for example, in consultation with many sectors. It was called and still called a hand-to-the-crane meeting. Furthermore, this was done in an umbrella consultation on long-term care. My colleague Conny Helder was closely involved in this in her previous position. These included, for example, visitor schemes, testing policies and personal protective equipment. If the opinions were not very clear, then we saw great differences. And I can tell you from my previous position that this led to regular discussion in sectors, in an institution and in regions. It meant that clear opinions were needed and those opinions needed to be able to be translated into practice. And that's what the discussion is about today. That discussion is very understandable in itself, and we must also have it. However, I would like to make it very clear that no OMT recommendations were rewritten in this case, that no conclusions were changed and that there was no runaway from nasty messages, but that the most necessary translation was made to a clear message that could be translated into the health care situation. We are now focusing on each place: a nursing home, an emergency care, an intensive care, a covid department, a taxi that transports someone to and from a day-to-day treatment. That was the situation. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u180	I think that's the end of an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u181	The Minister states here that in his previous role as a care director he arranged protective equipment for his own hospital in time and that he blames himself for not pointing that out to other health care institutions in his surroundings. I think that the Minister is actually failing himself because he saw that there was a problem and he saw that he needed those personal protective equipment. There was only another problem: the personal protective equipment was in large storage sheds, which were public property and not private property because of market forces. The reconstruction of the Volkskrant a while ago showed that it could happen that our entire stock of protective equipment was sold to China on February 10th and that Foreign Affairs granted a special exemption to a plane to land at Schiphol Airport. And then everything was gone. The annoyance about this and the annoyance that I have also expressed today is that in those final opinions on personal protective equipment they were made as if they were not so much needed in casual contacts, as if they were not needed in the home situation and as if they were not needed for home help. The minister clearly states that he arranged them for his hospital and for everyone who worked in that hospital. He's got to agree with me that whether you're home help or intensive or ic nurse or a helper in a nursing home, you should've had those resources? They should have had them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u182	The period I refer to was the period in which these resources were simply available to all parties and all healthcare providers in the Netherlands through the normal order lines, because there was no shortage worldwide either. That's the period I'm referring to, a time when today's ordering, was tomorrow in the house, at prices for covid. That's the period I'm referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u183	That's incorrect. I'm talking about February 10. I'm talking about two weeks before the first corona case in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u184	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u185	At that time, our entire stocks were sold. There was nothing left. An eyewitness says in the reconstruction of the Volkskrant: our pilots looked like tubes of toothpaste. The scarcity in the Netherlands has been created by selling the complete stocks of protective equipment to China. The Minister saw in his hospital that personal protective equipment was incredibly important and therefore needed to be in stock. He would have liked to tell that to all those other care organizations, like nursing homes. I asked the Minister if he agrees with me that there is the crux of what has gone wrong. It's been pretended it wasn't as necessary as you've only had fleeting contact. They didn't get domestic help, they didn't get home help, and nursing homes were at the back. The friction is that they were pretended not to be very necessary, and that it has not been said: "The protective equipment is patented. Put a tea towel in front of your mouth if necessary, but protect yourself by breathing in each other's breath." You saw that, didn't you? The Minister saw that. My question is therefore whether the Minister shares the view that this error of assessment has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u186	We're talking about two different periods. Mrs Agema continues to refer to the period just before the first patient came to the Netherlands. I would like to refer again to a much earlier situation in which the images from China were clear to all of us. I think you remember the footage. I have the picture that a very large hospital in China was built in a few days at least on my retina. Maybe we were impressed and we thought: the Chinese can do that quickly. We should only have been impressed by what was going on there and what that might have meant to us. If we were not aware of this at the time, we would have been at the time when we saw the images from northern Italy. That was all a long way before the period you were discussing. At that time personal protective equipment was available everywhere in the Netherlands. I blame myself for taking responsibility, with my colleagues, as the director of one institution and failing to check the situation in the region during that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u187	Once again, I do not blame the Minister for this omission. In December 2019 and January 2020 I had a total obsession with everything that happened in Wuhan. If I had sat in your seat, I would have asked immediately how much protective equipment we have, where they are and whether we have enough for a period of major crisis. But that is not what the ministers did before this minister. There have been directives which state that it was not very necessary. They didn't get home help, neighborhood nurses didn't get them and nursing homes were at the back. That's what happened. I would ask the Minister once again to respond to that, in fact, to the deception that has taken place. It was pretended that it was not very necessary, while the Minister in his role at the time realized that it was very much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u188	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u189	If necessary, they would have shown a tea towel. That was my point. I have three interruptions to devote to it, but that was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u190	At that time, there was a lack of clarity as to the resources available. My point was first of all that we had too few resources in the Netherlands. Some institutions had enough, but other institutions, when the first patients came, suddenly had a stock for just a few days and no more than that. In many regions, it led directly to redistribution between institutions, but also to overall scarcity. In addition, at that time there was much unclear about the infection of the virus, about the exact symptoms et cetera. This also meant a lack of clarity about the exact use of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Hijink. Oh, no, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u192	Yeah, well, I'd better put this right after. When it comes to corona, I have all these blue folders. One states "mouths," the other states "personal protective equipment" or "care homes" and so on. But I've also had a folder that says "bagger" since this week. Then it's about influencing OMT advice and the note on the masks of Neighbor and Hertogh, which wasn't sent to us. It is also about the fundamental violation of the law and the preservation of a sausage. Then I see this minister reacting with: they were just enlightening questions from the OMT; I ask for understanding when it comes to the fundamental violation of the law and the preservation of a sausage. I would really like to give this Minister, even after hearing the answer to my previous question, that he does not take this crap into his own hands. He was a hospital administrator with integrity. He knew what had to happen. My question to the Minister is not to take over. Don't ask for understanding, but call the people on the mat. Demand clarity and clarity, so that I do not have to ask the Minister exactly what went wrong with the directives on protective equipment, why was it pretended that you did not need protective equipment if you had casual contact, why the people in home care did not get them and why was it pretended that it was not necessary. That'll make the dreary your dreary. Then you'll have big problems in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u193	Thank you for this warning. I absolutely do not want to take over the shit Mrs Agema is talking about. I'm just saying I'm gonna move in on the situation back then. I'm just doing that from my personal experience back then. I therefore share the uncertainties we had. That is exactly what you see coming back into this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u194	Actually, I find this interesting. I'm referring to the role the minister had in his previous life. That is a very different one. He was really on the other side back then. That makes this debate interesting. I find it complicated that he says: the directives on the use of protective equipment in care must be clear. I think we all agree that this should not be endlessly discussed, but that it should be clear in what situation you are using what means. That is not at the heart of the discussion either. The heart of the discussion is, of course, who is it to draw up these directives and to what independent science can we attach when it comes to what means should be used? That, of course, is what we are talking about today, and we need to hear it from the Minister. From his own experience he knows how important it is that the directives are good. Then how could it have happened that the results of that scientific assessment have been sent from the Ministry and pushed upon them? We have always heard here in this Chamber: 'It is not about scarcity. It's not about deficits. They're professional guidelines. That's the point. We're not under any pressure from scarcity. They're professional guidelines." Now we know that from the Ministry there was a direct push on the OMT to use less preventive means in the nursing homes. That is at the heart of the discussion, regardless of what he has experienced in his own role. Does he recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u195	What I recognize is that it really made sense for the practice that there were very unambiguous interpretations of opinions. In this case it was medical practice, but it also applied to other occasions. The nature of the advice and the scientific evidence for it or the indication that there was no scientific evidence for it and if necessary indicate what is needed for it and what dates are needed for it. In this case, it is up to the OMT, but it may also be up to the Dutch Association for Intensive Care or the Federation for Medical Specialists. There it is. How do we translate that into a specific situation? I've outlined a number of them. There is indeed a role for the Ministry to ask "does this help?', Just because the questions, for example, come to the Ministry from a sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u196	That is quite different from making suggestions about the content which has had very serious consequences. I would like to stress that once again. The Ministry, the Minister, has pushed the guidelines on the scientific analysis made by the OMT. We have mentioned all these examples. It has been said that the preventive use of protective equipment in nursing homes should be discouraged, because in the nursing homes it was not the idea that you should use them in full. That was passed directly from the Ministry to the OMT with text suggestions. Including typing errors, those text suggestions are also included in the OMT opinion. If the Minister says that directives should be clear, then I agree. But does the Minister also agree that questions for clarification end with a question mark, that he should then count on an answer from the OMT and that an enlightening question is not "can this suggestion of text be accepted?', Are you aware that this is a major change in the content of the opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u197	Questions to the OMT can come up with a question mark, but they can also come up as: "Is this text what you really mean? Is this a representation of what you really mean?" You'll have a text and you'll have a question mark. In addition, the suggestion is that this changes the conclusion of the OMT. I do not share that conclusion at all now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u198	This then contradicts what has been shown quite clearly in the broadcast of Nieuwsuur. Even if you search those pieces online, you can see that in the OMT consultation in question, there has been a very strong exchange between all kinds of experts: what should be the use of protective equipment? That's when the presentation was from Neighbor. It has said that it would be good to sit somewhere in between: not everywhere preventive, but also not, what the directive was, only when you get very close to it. They discussed this and that OMT consultation, as shown by the minutes that have been seen, really drew a different conclusion from the OMT opinion. The Minister put that into the OMT differently from what the conclusion was in the consultations that took place there. So you are actually steering content and no longer asking questions. I would like to ask the Minister if he would make that distinction, that it is really different that you ask a question for clarification. That can also be done in public, I think. All that doesn't have to happen behind the scenes. You ask a question if you're steering content. I believe that the Minister should acknowledge that the content of the report has been sent and that this is and remains undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u199	As I point out, it is far too premature for me to draw that conclusion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u200	While the spokesperson of the minister's party pleads for extra time and the Minister suggests that it is premature to draw conclusions, which are, by the way, simply black-and-white, I wonder how the time to reach conclusions of the obvious relates to the time that has not been allocated to all those people who have become ill or left alive for a long time as a result of these government actions towards the OMT. I would like to add that to my colleague Mr Hijink. But apart from the content of this intervention, I hear the Minister saying that it is too early to draw conclusions. But some members of the OMT have come to that conclusion for a long time. They explain to Nieuwsuur that the adjustments made by the Ministry were not considered as clarifications but as substantive interference with the text. They had long felt that there was political guidance on the opinions, but they could not properly check it out. According to experts, these suspicions of political interference become concrete for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u201	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u202	My question is: on what basis does this minister question the findings of the OVV report, from the reports of Nieuwsuur and from what OMT members say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u203	First of all, Mrs Simons states that people have died as a result of the action of the Ministry. I'm going to distance myself from that conclusion for now. I'm telling you the truth. At the same time, I hear the Chamber say that due to the slowness of other times, the Ministry and the Cabinet have not done enough, which would have led to the deaths of people. Let us await the evaluation of the total. What we know is that I am also sketching that certainly in that period in a very short time with a lot of unknowns has acted incredibly quickly. I'm turning myself over to "That has nothing to do with the Cabinet"...... that I know what I've done wrong in my previous role as a care manager. I am convinced that we will also see conclusions in a further evaluation on matters that can be improved. But it is really premature to conclude now that people have died as a result of the ministry's actions. That's the first thing. Second. My colleague will come back to the findings of the OVV report. We just got the report, just like you. We still have to discuss that in the Cabinet, so we'll come back to that later. That will be in the course of March.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u204	As far as I have understood in the last two years, thanks to statements by the government, the cabinet and various scientists, mouth caps are an important part of prevention in relation to infections. I also know that masks were not recommended under false pretenses in crucial places in our society, such as nursing homes. We know that there has been a huge concentration of deaths within the nursing homes and that there has been a huge concentration of infections among the care staff, with all the consequences. We can, of course, wait two years to come to the conclusion that there is at least a relationship between all those facts, but in the meantime I have to say that my concern is that we are making decisions that we can say... Let me put it another way: in the meantime, we're making decisions that will contaminate everyone at some point. We've accepted that by now. That's almost inevitable. I dare say that will lead again to... One thing we know for sure: if you get corona, you have an increased risk of all kinds of diseases. It's not said you're gonna get it, but you do have an increased chance of it. That alone should, I think, be enough reason to contain the infections. Time is constantly being talked about here: we need to take time to come to conclusions; we need to take time for this and we need to take time for that. In the meantime, however, there are people who have been unable to leave their homes for two years and who have been asked in the last press conference to ensure that they remain safe in front of society, which opens up again. Which one... Well, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u205	I hear at least one very important argument in a row of arguments. That is that we must continue to work to reduce the number of infections. I fully share that with Mrs Simons. This means that even where it is no longer a directive, it is still an advice to use a mask in many places, for example, to have you tested if you have complaints, to go into isolation, to keep a distance of 1.5 metres where it can be done. That's what I said yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u206	Now, the government has recently decided to include social advice in addition to medical advice, to look at how people react, for example, to measures, how they deal with them, which could drive them to comply or not to comply with those measures. In other words, it has also been accepted that, apart from the medical reasons, there are many other reasons that you have to take into account. We do that because we have seen in the last two years that people were not willing to follow the advice at times. They wanted to comply with measures; then they could not do otherwise, because they are maintained, here and there. But advice is getting in the wind. And now we're gonna give the advice to do exactly those things that are crucial. Well, that's just advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u207	That's right. I think that's very important advice. So that's what we're sharing. That is why I repeated it again and again yesterday, and also on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u208	The investigation with which Nieuwsuur shows that the ministry of VWS did indeed interfere with the content of the OMT recommendations does not necessarily fall out of the sky. They quote a number of OMT members who also say that the comments of the VWS ministry were not only clarifying questions, but also involved substantive interference. This morning we received an opinion from the OVV and they say the same thing. And they had access to all the pieces that weren't blacked out. This is also about restoring the confidence of society in what is happening in politics. I would therefore like to ask this Minister whether this is not the time to open up the matter to show that things have gone wrong, and to say quite frankly what has happened there. That is now a question that lingers over the market, and we simply do not have much use for it if things are just denied and then we do not learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u209	I fully agree that we need to learn from this. I also agree with the conclusion that we, as a country, were not ready for this pandemic on many points. That was indicated by one of your members, and on previous occasions by others. I fully share that. So that's what we need to learn from. It is true that, when it comes to the opinions of an OVV report, for example, we really need to have time to discuss this in the Cabinet. The conclusions were shared with us just this morning by the President. In fact, I have already indicated to my colleague that we will come back to that in March. That's the time to talk about it, not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u210	The minister's predecessor has already responded, and that was quite a defensive reaction. I would like to ask the Minister whether he has read that response and what he thinks of it. But I would also like to ask him: if there has been substantive interference, as Nieuwsuur says, confirm OMT's and also says the OVV report, how does he look at it? Does he deny what happened in his ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u211	As indicated above, I do not share that conclusion for the time being. Then I really need to look at that report first. With all the details, that is also something to discuss in the cabinet. Then we'll come up with the conclusions, not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u212	The reason why it is of course important for this debate is that the cabinet is constantly introducing and supporting measures by saying that the OMT has advised them. If we find here, on the basis of the OVV report, but of course also Nieuwsuur, that there was some political interference and that advice was sometimes directing, then it does something with confidence. I would like to say to the Minister that, of course, this is the place to make these political considerations. This is the place where it is allowed to collide, where scientists can give independent advice based on what they think best, of which the VWS ministry must then say: this is what we find and not feasible. That's gotten mixed up. I would now like to ask the Minister what he is going to do to restore that confidence and what he is going to do to ensure that this is going to break up again, that scientists can really give independent advice, that the Ministry can then say what is and is not feasible and that this political balance is made on both sides here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u213	One of the things that I have already done myself, very consciously and partly at the request of Mrs Westerveld, is to ensure that at least the order of the trial is reversed. The cabinet makes and shares a preliminary assessment of what needs to be done in the coming period. The cabinet then specifically asked for an opinion from the OMT on this issue. That opinion shall also be shared in good time. That's actually giving you a completely different process. That is at least one change that I think is very important. For the rest, we will come back to this after we have discussed this in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u214	I had a first part of a question that didn't come up with an answer. Suppose the Ministry comes to the conclusion that there was substantive interference of the Ministry of VWS with the OMT opinions. Is that what the Secretary of State is doing? I urge him to please ensure that there is openness about it, also in order to restore society's much-needed trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u215	That that trust is necessary, I fully share. That will be obvious. It means that we really need to ensure as much transparency as possible. Some enlightening questions have been asked. I know from various roles that these enlightening, unambiguous opinions were absolutely necessary, once again at a time when it was necessary not only in the care but also in the security regions and municipalities to act very quickly and sometimes very radically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u216	The minister said he was arranging protective equipment for his staff in the early days. He did so, of course, in the knowledge that these personal protective equipment would protect his people from infection, a serious course of the disease and perhaps even worse. So at that time, it was crucial who your boss was. If your boss was Ernst Kuipers, he'd take good care of you. If your boss was Jos de Blok, he'd take good care of you, too. But that was not the case in the rest of the Netherlands, where most other bosses followed the advice of the Ministry, which in turn was based on that of the OMT. That was what my previous questions were about, but this question is about the following. In that process, in which all the other employers who did not arrange protection against contamination for their employees, there was a note from Mrs. Neighbor and Mr. Hertogh. They explicitly asked for personal protective equipment to be used everywhere in case of one infection in the nursing home. That wasn't taken up. It's just not done. The worst thing is that this minister's predecessor, Mr. De Jonge, described that piece as "the confidentiality of the OMT," so we didn't know it either. My question to the Minister is whether he can please break with that old way of working. I hope he understands what I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u217	Yeah, yeah. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u218	The Minister began with a personal statement. He said: the link between adjusting an OMT advice and the death of health care workers is far from mine, but he did see how important personal protective equipment was. So I ask him to break this off and stand as a minister with a white coat for the safety of care workers now, but also in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u219	Yes, and in the future. I assume that's what Mrs. Agema means. Yeah, I'd like to do that. For the record, the most important thing in my comment was not so much that my colleagues and I, with many people in the Erasmus MC who helped us, some of them you know, Marion Koopmans and so on, had the presence of spirit to allow those resources to be used when they could. That wasn't so hard. The tricky thing was that I failed to advise, for example, a general practitioner and others to do the same, where it was much harder for them to make that link. So I was actually in a very easy position. It's not something to stand up for. I see it as something I've failed. As far as transparency is concerned, as I said just now, yes, I fully share that view. However, I would like to mention the situation. We are always looking at the nursing homes, and I understand that, but we have to realize that in that situation the discussion was about the following questions. Do you use personal protective equipment in a ward where covid patients are? Of course. Do you use personal protective equipment in the care of patients who might have covid, who have any complaints, any temperature increase or anything else? Of course. But do you also use those protective equipment in any contact with a patient who is not suspected of having any complaints? That was a discussion in nursing homes, an emergency room in a hospital, a taxi ride, everywhere. That was the discussion of that moment. There was also another discussion in the general public. He was fed here, too. Jaap van Dissel has spoken about it. This discussion was about the extent to which masks protect in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u220	Pointy, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u221	You're almost done with me, Mr. Chairman. This is the sixth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u222	So please use it well and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u223	I don't think I can be pointier than I am. It would also help if the Minister would just give an answer once in a while. We also received a note from Mrs Buurman which we did discuss. We also discussed it in a round table. That note was about the fact that demented people in a nursing home aren't all bedridden. The problem in the nursing homes was that the spread took place through walking elderly people who couldn't just be tied up or locked up in their room. That is why it was so important that these personal protective equipment were widely used as soon as there was one infection. This minister, who was then a good boss, does not have to answer for this now. Bruins and De Jonge should have done that. However, I would like the Minister's undertaking that the OMT opinions will be independent from now on. I want him to refuse to send OMT opinions to VWS officials any longer before they come to VWS. The second thing I would like to receive from the Minister is the advice sent by the OMT to VWS. I already got it through an e-mail procedure, but they're not in the files today. We already have the opinions that went to the Chamber. And we don't have the advice that the OMT sent to VWS for adjustment. We would like to receive them, because we want to be able to control them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u224	The OMT is independent. Members have a personal seat in the OMT because of their expertise. I'm not talking about the composition of the OMT, and I'm not getting the minutes. I'll get an oral feedback from the chairman. Once the whole advice has been put on paper, VWS has received a concept of that advice in the past period. It was then possible to ask enlightening questions about this, as we have just discussed. That is the setting as it has been so far and as it has been extremely applicable to the translation into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u225	Exactly on this point: this morning, a majority of the House voted in favour of the request I made together with Mrs Agema on the publication of the documents that also ended up in Nieuwsuur via the Wob. If you look at those pieces, a lot of it's gone. If you read right, it turns out that the same pieces haven't always been wiped away. When you look at what's been painted away, it turns out very often that it's unnecessary. The minister just said "full transparency." A majority of the Chamber this morning voted in favour of sending all the e-mails and requests to amend the OMT opinions since the beginning of this crisis. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is going to do so in full transparency, the words he just said himself, and when we can get those documents. I note that this is a very important point for us, precisely because this is about trust. We must be able to trust that the OMT documents we have had in the past really reflected the scientific discussion that took place there. We also need to be sure that, for example, the OMT advice we had last Monday is 100% scientifically substantiated and not partly edited by the Ministry. Will the Minister send those documents to the Chamber as soon as possible? And, in line with his remark on full transparency, does he not want to paint away any more of those big blocks of black or white?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u226	If your Chamber attaches such importance, I am prepared to establish in a protocol the procedure and the exchange of data for corona between the OMT and VWS. And I'm willing to share that with you, for starters. I also want to check which pieces exactly have been exchanged between VWS and OMT. And I also want to have the further conclusions and the discussion in the cabinet before I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u227	No, Mr. Chairman, that's not how we're gonna do this. This is not about the research that has been presented today by the Research Council. This is really something else. This is about the OMT's working methods and the relationship between OMT and VWS over the past two years. Those are really two different things. The Minister should not mix them up now, because then we are going to wait for those pieces until the end of the day, and that is really not the intention as far as I am concerned. The request is very clear and a majority of the House has voted in favour of it. I'll tell the minister not to send protocol to the chamber. I don't need protocol. I want the pieces. What was at Nieuwsuur was about the first months of the crisis, and a lot of it was wiped out. The Minister says "I stand for full transparency" and then I say: be completely transparent and give the Chamber the e-mails that have gone from the Ministry to the OMT containing the requests for modification of the OMT opinion, so that we can see what has actually been modified in the OMT opinion at the request of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u228	I really want to take a look at the whole thing first. If we look only at the documents that have now been requested from the Ministry through the Wob procedure, it is about hundreds of thousands of documents. The Ministry I notice that now in the first month that I sit there is so very busy dealing with covid alone, while there are so many other questions. I would like to serve your Chamber very well, but we must also keep the procedure manageable for the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u229	We have a constitutional right to information. The Minister has to give us that information. If the minister has to send documents to the media under duress of the judge or under duress of the Wob, and does so, he can also send them to the House of Representatives. And then, in accordance with his own commitment to full transparency, he will be able to do less in those documents, so that we will also have the full transparency that the Minister himself says he wants. I don't see the point. I am not concerned with the pieces that have already been in Nieuwsuur and other media. I now turn to the e-mails that went from the Ministry to the OMT and the RIVM and the requests for adaptation that have been made so that we can see if those changes have been made. That's all. I believe that we have a constitutional right to information. A majority of the House has already expressed its views on this matter this morning. I would now like to hear from the Minister that we are going to get that information as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u230	As indicated above, first of all, it remains to be seen whether the content of the proposal has been taken into account. As I have said, we have no indication of this so far. The content was not sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u231	It wasn't your turn, Mr. Kuzu. Oh, that's what you agreed. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u232	I think the Minister is getting off too easy. I hear him say that the OMT is completely independent, that the correspondence between the department and the OMT is purely and simply about clarifications and clarifications. I ask the Minister to confirm that that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u233	As far as I can see, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u234	That is precisely what this is all about: as far as we can see at the moment. The request for information made by the colleague of the SP is very relevant. Then what is the objection to sharing the OMT's draft recommendations, so that we can check, from our controlling role, whether it is really about clarifications and clarifications? Surely the Minister can simply undertake this on the basis of the request for information and the constitutional right that we have to carry out our task?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u235	There is no problem with sharing draft opinions. I merely point out that you must realise that draft opinions had to be translated into practice and that this asked for an enlightening question on occasion. I indicated what that meant in my previous role.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u236	Now it's getting a little messy. There's a fog cloud in here. I think that, when the Minister states that it is about clarifications and clarifications, those draft opinions should be shared so that we can really check from our role whether they really are. If that's not the case, then I wonder what we're doing here. Then we can't do our job. I hope the Minister realizes that he has the task of making the work possible for us and not impossible. I would urge him to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u237	As has already been pointed out, I am very willing to share these draft opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u238	I would like to touch on the issue of whether we are talking about enlightening, clarifying questions or substantive guidance. That's also the argument you see about it in the media and that you belong here today. You can easily say that the opposition is blowing it up into substantive direction. On the other hand, you can also say that a minister is trying to make it all smaller until it is more about clarification. I'm just trying to figure out how to judge that fairly and honestly. Have we not just set up a supervisory committee at the RIVM, in the law, to oversee not only the scientific level but also the independence of the work? Wouldn't it be an idea to ask them to reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u239	I'll get back to that, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u240	The fact that the OMT is not independent has been warning Forum for Democracy for two years. This is already apparent from the mere fact that the OMT is chaired by Mr Van Dissel, who receives his salary from the Minister for Health. All members of the OMT receive generous rewards from the Minister of Health. The members of the Supervisory Committee should supervise independence; Mr Van der Staaij spoke just now about being appointed by the Minister for Health. It's a real joke. Until last week, there were strong indications and suspicions that there is real political influence. In the meantime, however, this has also been demonstrated beyond doubt by the documents that have been made public. This is not only the interpretation of Forum and many parties here in the Chamber, but also Nieuwsuur interprets the pieces in this way. OMT members themselves say that there has been substantive interference and professors of health law deduce from the documents that the law has been broken. If the Minister continues to deny here that political influence has taken place and starts to wring himself against better judgment, in all sorts of corners, to say that it was merely textual adjustments, does he say that Nieuwsuur has spread disinformation, that the OMT members have lied and that those professors of health law do not understand the law? Is that what I hear the Minister say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u241	First of all, let me respond to the allegations made against Jaap van Dissel. Mr Van Dissel is a scientist of stature. Like many others in the last two years, he has suddenly seen a role that he had to take on. This role was a huge burden on him and also had a direct impact on his personal environment. I have seen, with you, videos about Mr Van Dissel on a bicycle, what was then said to him and what this meant to himself. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Dissel here for everything he has done in recent years. I have seen this in many ways: now in my role in the last month, but rather in a different role, for example when I joined a Catshuis meeting. He did so in an extremely prudent, careful manner, explaining the situation, but sometimes also giving a warning about the epidemiological situation. He has to take that role, and he has taken that as far as I am concerned. The RIVM is indeed an agency. It's a knowledge institute. RIVM can play an independent role as a knowledge institute and advisor. As director of the Centre for the spread of infectious diseases, Mr Van Dissel is chairman of the OMT. That's important. The director of that centre, Mr Van Dissel, is accountable to the RIVM. With that, there is no direct interference from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u242	I do not yet have an answer to my question as to whether I hear the Minister say that Nieuwsuur apparently distributes disinformation, that the OMT experts lie and that the health scientists do not interpret the law properly. I would like to respond to Mr Van Dissel's praises. On 11 August 2020, Mr Van Dissel was asked in a technical briefing whether the Ministry had any influence on the RIVM. He lied to me about it. He lied to me about it. He lied to me. He lied to me. He lied to me. In the meantime, we know that Mr Van Dissel is jumping through the corner of the cabinet, succumbing to all the pressure and giving exactly the advice that the cabinet prescribes him. The cabinet here flies with advice from the OMT that we should wear those non-working, filthy mouth caps. The OMT initially did not see the point at all, until the Ministry indicated that it was the intention. So let me ask you one more time. If the Minister continues to deny that there has been political influence, does the Minister at least recognise, in view of the whole sentiment here in the Chamber, that the appearance has been created that the OMT is not independent and is indeed influenced politically? Has that appearance been awakened, or does the Minister even deny it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u243	I'm really quiet. Once again, a man who has worked to his conscience for the past two years has been told that he has lied very hard. I think we should be ashamed to say that about Mr Van Dissel. We must be very ashamed of that. If you hear any anger in my voice, you should hear it. You should be ashamed of such statements! Really. I hope this will also be on YouTube, because that is what you need to do with this. You really should be ashamed of it! Mr Van Dissel is working very hard and he is doing so in good conscience. So you're saying you're a hard-ass liar? No! The second point was about appearances. I have indicated that advice from the OMT must be translated into practice. We had to do that in April 2020 and we still have to do that now. I would like to remind you of the situation two years ago, April 2020. It was a situation where the number of covid patients was on an ic alltime high. Now there are less than 200, but then there were more than 1,400 on the Dutch and German ic's. At that time, we were working with the hospitals to see if it was possible to connect multiple patients to one ventilator. We have asked TU Delft students to make their own ventilators in no time. Mouth caps were cleaned and reused. That was the situation and it had to be worked on, including with the OMT. The advice that was made then had to be translated into practice. What does it mean for that cab driver? What does it mean for that oncology nurse on the day-to-day treatment of oncology? What does it mean for a nurse in a department for psychogeriatry or dementia? That's what had to happen. It had to be done very quickly, but it also had to be ready to go. You're shaking no. Yes, that's what had to happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u244	You will be given the floor, but calling someone who is not present for a liar is very much out of line. I ask you not to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u245	I will not do it again, but I also said it to Mr Van Dissel this morning in his face, and I am happy to do so many more times. I find it regrettable and disturbing that the Minister with such a responsible function cannot control his own anger, is screaming here and cannot control the anger in his voice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u246	The minister isn't screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u247	Once again, I do not get an answer to the question of whether the appearance of political influence has been created. Asking the question is answering him. That appearance is indeed awakened. If the Minister acknowledged the importance of not questioning the position of the OMT and that we, as a Chamber, can rely on the independence of the OMT, there is only one conclusion at the moment. The Minister can say that under his predecessor pressure has been exerted on the OMT and that he will not do so himself, but Mr Van Dissel has shown that he is totally unfit for office. He has shown that he is being influenced and must be dismissed for that simple reason. I can't draw a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u248	I do not accept that conclusion, as you understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u249	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u250	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u251	Mr Van Meijeren just suggested that the Chamber supports his views and the way he said it. I would like to express strongly and in a distance, including for the Acts, that I do not feel represented by Mr Van Meijeren and that I do not agree with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u252	Clear. I just saw Mrs. Van Esch at the interrupting microphone. Your point is already made? Fine. And, Mrs. Paulusma, can I still please them with an interruption? The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u253	I agree with what Mr Tielen said. I am very far from any insinuations made in the Chamber, including personal ones. They create the appearance of a whole lot of misery. I don't think it's there the way it was just insinuated. I understand very well that the Minister says he's taking the time for the evaluation. I think that's important, too. It is about the last two years, in which much suffering has arisen and caused. I appreciate that care, but I also asked in my speech whether there are any recommendations at this stage. I just heard the Minister make a suggestion to the Chamber. Are there any recommendations, which you say: I understand very well that the Chamber is frustrated; what things could I do already to get to work on what is on the table now, until that careful evaluation is in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u254	I've already reported two things. The first is a protocol on the method and interaction. We'll find out if that's necessary. The second is the concept OMT opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u255	When Mr Kuipers took office as Minister, I was actually very happy. We have a doctor, a hospital director, who is competently trained to do so. I was really hoping, and I still hope, that we'll look at all these things in a new way. I understand very well that there must be a certain continuity of policy and that Minister Kuipers is a little reluctant not to defend his predecessor. In addition to the influence of the OMT, which we are still debating, all kinds of pieces from the Wob requests have emerged. There is something rising in which officials talk about us in an incredibly arrogant manner, in which fundamental rights violations are the order of the day, in which they try to mask them, and in which they say: we are only going to give the people a bit of a sausage. Not one body falls out of the closet, but an entire cemetery falls out of the closet. I would like to ask whether Minister Kuipers is not surprised, whether he does not regret this course of action and whether, on behalf of his predecessor, he should not simply make excuses for the division and discontent of the previous policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u256	I totally share that we have to go to another way of dealing with covid, with corona, with this pandemic. That is why I have changed a number of things in the past period. We've just seen a few points. We also need to make a much broader weighting of what we are sending to exactly. I just said something about transparency and a protocol for cooperation with the OMT. This also means that, before we draw any conclusions about the past period, we must first take the time to see what reporting is, what else we get and what exactly the conclusions should be. You're asking me too soon to respond to all kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u257	Yet we have all seen the Wob requests. We have seen a number of comments made by officials. In any case, I could imagine the Minister saying: that is unacceptable and that will never happen again under my reign. Maybe that's for a later debate, but I'm sorry. I've seen the anger in everyone. I find it strange that nothing can be said about it at all. One more thing about the O.V.V. report. It says that the focus on fighting the virus has hampered the view of the case a little bit. That's why the collateral damage wasn't taken. I have tabled endless motions on the taking of this collateral damage: economic collateral damage, psychic collateral damage and cultural collateral damage. That never happened. All we've ever looked at is slowing down the spread of the virus. Do you think that conclusion is right, and that we should never do that again? EZK's report on the basis of which the lockdown could not have gone through, because 550,000 years of life would have been destroyed, was not included at all. Do you agree with BVNL that we will always take the collateral damage with us from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u258	I fully agree with Mr Van Haga that we need to look at a broader consideration. For this reason, for example, I have deliberately demonstrated on previous occasions the impact of this whole policy on our young people. Two out of three young people currently have feelings of loneliness. That's very serious. I do not really need to mention entrepreneurs and all kinds of others. This has been a deliberate reason to indicate from the cabinet in the letter on the approach for the coming period that we are going to make a different weighting and have different objectives. That's in line with your advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u259	I share the view that the bottom stone should emerge when it comes to all the OMT reports that have been made and their influence. However, I would also like to dwell on the main conclusion of today's OVV report. That is the fact that the Netherlands was not well prepared for this pandemic. I believe that this Minister has already shared that conclusion and we share that conclusion with each other, apart from Mr Hugo de Jonge. I'm still curious about that. For example, the then finance minister called corona a black swan, an event you can't see coming. But that's wrong, because we could have seen this coming. There were virologists, especially virologists from the Erasmus UMC, who warned. Those who told us: beware of zoonoses; beware, this can become a pandemic. We had a final report from the Van Dijk Committee on the Q fever. It contained very clear recommendations. Very clear. That report has been ignored by politics and by the government. It was said: communicate clearly and in time about certainties and uncertainties. And yet it didn't happen. Even though we had it on paper. I wonder whether this Minister is now aware of the lessons that it contains. Whether he is aware of the lessons that we need to learn from this, also with a view to perhaps another pandemic that we can see. I wonder if this Minister shares with me that I hope that there should be learning power in the government, that we do have information and that we should also use that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u260	I fully agree with Mrs Van Esch that we could have seen such a pandemic coming. We did. Of course, we couldn't tell when it was coming. We couldn't tell you what type of virus we'd be dealing with and what kind of disease you'd get from it. It now makes sense for us and for the general public: oh, that must be a virus that causes respiratory problems or pneumonia. But you and I know it could be all kinds of other things. The fact that we could see it coming wasn't so weird. We don't have to go back a hundred years for that. Over the last 20 years we have seen these outbreaks a number of times, but they have always been a far-from-us-bed show. Maybe there was a single patient with SARS or MERS or something else coming our way, but that was no more than a single patient. And yet we were always on the alert. Perhaps you remember that more than ten years ago we had something that seemed to be becoming a serious influenza pandemic. Well, that turned out to be not so bad. Maybe that got in our way too. We were very prepared then, for example with the ordering of vaccines. Those vaccines turned out to be largely redundant later. They didn't help. But the protocols were there, in all kinds of areas. There was a centre for the fight against infectious diseases of the RIVM with excellent expertise. And there were always exercises done. I'm talking for myself, with a health care exercise in our acute care region of the Southwest of the Netherlands, even in autumn 2019. Typically such an exercise that you implant for, but which also keeps you away from the hustle and bustle of the day and which you say we're going to do this now. There were also lessons learned from that. Yeah, we were prepared, and at the same time we weren't. Perhaps I can mention one point within the area of concern that, as far as I am concerned, will become really relevant for the coming period to set us up. Given the organisation of the care field, with all the individual institutions, it was extremely difficult to act together in crisis situations. Nevertheless, I think we have done very well, thanks to all our colleagues throughout the country. But as far as protocols and agreements are concerned, we were totally unprepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u261	I really hope that the area of concern can be better prepared with those protocols. I think there are steps in this too. That's essential. Sure. I would like to dwell on the following. We feel that we can come back into a situation where there is another report with recommendations to prevent a next pandemic and, once again, many virologists, including the same Erasmus UMC, warn of a possible new pandemic, but that six months after that essential report, we have still seen zero steps in politics to take up that report, and that we have not seen that the VWS ministry believes that that report is essential to take significant steps on that basis. So I see a repeat of the past coming back. We are very concerned about this. I am curious to see the Minister's views on this. I hope, and we should all strive to prevent another pandemic. We need to be prepared for that. But let's also take all the reports seriously that warn us to avoid a next pandemic. We don't think that's happening right now. I would be interested to hear the Minister's reflection on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u262	That's what we have to do. I'll come back later with a letter to the Chamber on pandemic preparedness. There will also be a separate debate with Mr van Landbouw on zoonoses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u263	First of all, I would like to stress that I very much agree with the Minister that we have to address him on the policy that has been pursued, rather than naming those who have worked day and night, heart and soul, to combat this pandemic. So I'm gonna put a line on that. Then my question. The Minister indicated that in mid-March there would be a response to the report of the OVV. I think it would be good to have an extensive debate at that time on the lessons to be drawn from this, also looking back. At the same time, he indicated that the long-term strategy would also come sometime in March. I can very well imagine that, for example, when it comes to communication or keeping in touch with citizens in order to have a good basis for policy support, the report contains lessons that need to be included in this long-term strategy. I would like to ask the Minister how he sees it and how he involves it in the long-term strategy, so that we do not have to say afterwards 'we should have looked at that report first' and then build the long-term strategy on the old foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u264	I thank Mrs Bikker. We'll take this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u265	Then this was the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u266	This was the introduction and largely the heading OMT. I have another answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question. I told you to come back to that. There's a supervisory committee at RIVM. It has the legal task of monitoring the scientific level of RIVM and the independence of RIVM research. This is different from the independence of the OMT opinions. In the report, the OVV considered the role of the OMT. We've already named that, and we'll come back to that. I would first like to look at the recommendations that are of a slightly different order. In the response to the OVV report, we will come back to that too. Let me see if we've had all the points on this block in the meantime. I thought so. Then I'll come to the measures. First of all, there was an appreciation for and agreement with the relaxations. Subsequently, several of your MPs asked why 1G is selectively on the table and why the border is at 500. 1G is deployed at locations where the highest risk of infection is highest. The highest risk of contagion is to be imagined in a setting now, in which we had 80,000 observed infections per day in the last period. 80,000 infections per day must be an underestimate of the actual number. If you assume a possible contagious duration of five days, it's 400,000 people. And that's even an understatement. If you calculate that, you quickly arrive at numbers of at least 1 in 50 Dutch people who are contagious at the time. Those are big numbers. If you have large numbers together, once more in a setting inside, without 1.5 meters, without a fixed placement and without a mouth cap, then the chance of transfer to large numbers of people is great. That is why 1G is now specifically used for these groups and for these occasions with a limit of 500. This also applies automatically to the question about 1G in carnival. These are occasions in the setting as just mentioned: unplaced, no mouth cap and no 1.5 meters away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u267	I understood that from the letter, but I would like to have an explanation from the Minister. How do we reach a limit of 500? Is there any basis for that? My question was whether you should not look much more at points such as ventilation and air cleaning, because 500 people in one room may be a very different situation than 500 people in another room with other facilities. Also in this context: how is the Minister going to ensure with the mayors in the south that it can be a bit of a relaxing party?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u268	I would like to leave that last question to my colleague. There has been a lot of consultation and I know by now that there is a term "carnival mayors." Those are the mayors of the Carnav generals. I was allowed to join the discussion once and I can say that I was really impressed by their thoughts on how to do it properly. Ventilation and air cleaning are extremely important. Moreover, it must also be used properly. Furthermore, communication is important and I said something about it last night. It also means that it is a subject of discussion in conversations with all kinds of sectors, such as education. This is without prejudice to the fact that even then, in a situation inside with a large number of people and with the current status of the pandemic, there is a great chance that you will get bigger outbreaks. Then I entirely share with you the question: is a limit of 500 scientifically proven compared to a limit of 450 or 550? No, it's not. But that is simply a choice based on total numbers, because we must also keep it somewhat workable for all different sectors. Mrs Van Esch asked what lessons this minister draws from the predecessor's mistakes in testing for access. Directly after the previous summer peak, many improvements have been made, such as adjusting the test validity from 40 to 24 hours, improvements in compliance and enforcement, further development of the CoronaCheck app and also extending the number of test sites from around 100 to over 900 test sites at the time. Those are considerable adjustments. That is in line with Mrs Westerveld's question about the testing sites. As I said, it's now 900. This means that 99.9% of the Dutch can now reach a location within 30 minutes of car travel time. Most people can do that within a much shorter travel time. The Stichting Open Nederland also has a registration portal for this. Then there was Mrs van den Berg's question about the relaxation of quarantine measures: "Too stringent measures are undesirable, including in disability care. Please respond to the quarantine rules for this group." As you know, we have already extended the quarantine advice and this is particularly true for those who had a boost vaccination more than a week ago or were positive less than eight weeks ago. In addition, the insulation advice has now also been changed and thus we offer more space to provide the care that is needed, including in disability care. In the meantime, we look again at all the isolation and quarantine rules. When enlargements are possible, we will, of course, implement them on the advice of the OMT. A specific question on this subject, for example, concerns the current discrepancy between the medical field, the care field, and the outside world with regard to the rules on the duration of isolation. Mr Van Haga asked the question: can the Minister explain why the isolation period goes to five days and not to three or to zero? We follow the advice of the OMT. The OMT has looked at this in the light of the disease progression in the omikron variant and the most recent opinions of the ECDC, the European RIVM. On this basis, RIVM advises a period of five days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u269	That is, of course, plausible: the OMT is saying something and we are taking it over. That's just how they talked about it. The problem is only that this is in line with my previous question: that all these measures are incredibly disruptive elements. The quarantine time ensures that entire sectors are at home. My question is therefore whether it would not be a better idea to include not only the OMT advice, but also, for example, to map and weigh the collateral damage and the side effects, and to take a decision on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u270	This, of course, still focuses specifically on the need to contain the number of infections. The most important thing is that people are tested when they have complaints and go into isolation when they are tested positive. It is logical, then, to say the least, that the current number of infections has such a large impact on many people, on many families and on many work or school situations, how long exactly that should be. In this respect, we are pleased that the OMT advises that insulation in the current dominant variant can be shorter than before. It is as short as possible, but if we were to completely lift isolation, for example to zero days, it means that the number of infections is almost certainly going much further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u271	But that wasn't my question. My question was whether it was not even time to consider this collateral damage once and then, as a driver, to decide on the basis of the OMT advice and the disruption in society and the collateral damage resulting from it. If you guarantee that, I'm glad. But if the minister says "no, the OMT advises; it's still about the virus and I take it completely, without taking the collateral damage," then that's weird and contrary to the promise he just made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u272	I don't think this is in conflict with it. This is a bit of a double-edged sword. It means first of all that if someone goes with corona and a positive test in isolation, the person fails and cannot go to work, but at the same time many others are prevented from getting sick. If people have few complaints and still have a positive test at home, in your example, the person could have gone to work, but for all those who get more seriously ill, that is not true. Mrs Van Esch asked: does the Minister believe that it is now sufficiently clear that the 1.5 metres are still being advised? Although it will no longer be an obligation, it remains an urgent opinion. That is a message which I consciously delivered yesterday with tremendous emphasis on a press conference. I shall continue to do so because we are going to go from a directive, a commandment if you like, to an opinion, but all these opinions remain extremely important. This applies to the 1.5 meters, but of course it also applies to the use of mouth caps, hand washing and so on. Mrs Van Esch also asked about the one week between relaxing: is that enough? You must imagine that we are taking a calculated risk. The current epidemiological situation is that the number of infections is falling. A week ago, RIVM was still careful and said it: we may be at the peak. Yesterday you saw reports: we are now clearly over the peak. If you turn off in time, you'll see that the curve goes down for what it's worth, because of course it's always daily rates. Fortunately, the number of infections today is even lower with an R-value below 1 in the past period. In the case of relaxation, this may mean that the number is going up again. Only one week of time with a further decrease in large numbers and an R below 1 means that you will then be further softened from a lower baseline. So one week really makes a difference here. This is somewhat in line with Mrs Westerveld's question: are some measures not being relaxed too quickly, such as the expiry of the oral cap? I continue to stress that the duty of mouth cap is being abolished, with the exception of airports and airports, but that the advice remains. What I can do is that I put on one of these things every time I do it to show you and to keep radiating that it's wise that you use it in all places. In the past, for covid, we used to look strangely at people from abroad who used masks in all kinds of places. I think and I hope that's much more in our consciousness by now. I know that we are totally in the same position in this regard. It really helps. Mrs Van Esch says: we would like to see the possible use of Ctb excluded in the future. We come in March with a letter on the long-term approach. In that letter I will mention what the approach means for the use of measures and also the corresponding legal framework. Then I will also discuss the use of the ctb. From the outset, this commitment has been based on providing the opportunity to keep society open for as long as possible and to reopen earlier. I will come back to that later. Mrs Tielen asked: to what extent are the measures in the Netherlands comparable to those in other countries? With the implementation of the facilitations as of 18 February and then as of 25 February, the Netherlands falls into the group of Member States which have implemented far-reaching relaxations, as well as Ireland, Sweden and Denmark. The debate on these facilitations has also started within the EU. There are still the necessary Member States that are less flexible. This means, among other things, the use of corona tickets in all forms. Then there is a supplement, also in relation to the question of the use of 2G and 3G in other countries: am I prepared to come up with appropriate measures with European colleagues? Last week I had discussions with my colleagues in Europe. First of all, we have shared the situation in all kinds of different countries with, as I pointed out here last time, more the integral equation: not only the number of infections, but also the vaccination status in different age groups, the use of protective equipment, the willingness to use mouth caps in all kinds of places and their compliance, the testing capacity and so on. As far as I am concerned, I have also made it very clear that there is a strong need to standardise the frameworks for a corona access card. You know that, among other things, the duration of the vaccination certificate varies from country to country, even though very clear agreements have been made in Europe for those 270 days. So the situation is different. To give one example, I make a comparison with Germany. A minister of Germany also indicates that different parts of Germany even have different rules and that it is a struggle to standardize them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u273	I am pleased that the Minister is discussing with his European colleagues how he sees this uniformity. The Minister just said in another interrupting debate: a week can make a lot of difference. The question is how the minister can ensure in the reasonably short term that it is clear to Dutch people where they can and cannot go and in what way. Because if there are agreements that are interpreted differently by European Member States, it will be very complicated for the average Dutch citizen, especially if he lives in a border region.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u274	I apologize that I don't know by heart what exactly is to be found on this area on for example reichsoverheid.nl. But we can look at that and make sure that's there. Because when I speak for myself: I have a complete spreadsheet with all those appointments and rules, which also change every time in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u275	I do not know exactly which part of the block we are in, but you are talking about Europe and the conversation you have had with other countries. I asked a question about booster vaccination in particular and how to travel for teenagers. I wonder if you've had any discussions on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u276	I have a very enlightening question. What do you mean, with regard to the admission ticket for teenagers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u277	I'll speak through the chairman, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u278	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u279	Of course, I was immediately corrected. I would very much like to know from the Minister the following. Suppose you have a teenager in your house, you want to go on winter or summer holidays, and the rules in Europe are different from the rules we have now. How are we going to solve that for these young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u280	When it comes to teenagers: the Health Council, as you know, has recently come up with an opinion based on the health benefits, or the disease risks in that group. That advice is not to offer a booster vaccination to this group by default. I want to wait for the advice of the EEA. I would then like to take a decision on this. As long as the EEA has not approved this vaccination for this age group, it would mean that we are now offering it off-label. I don't want to do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u281	This was a very ugly decision by the European Commission because there was a regulation to have a corona pass for a year. The European Commission was allowed to take an implementing decision, for example, to admit a new vaccine. Then they do not have to ask the other European Member States: do we agree with a new vaccine? It's allowed by the EEA. They say that vaccine is also valid. The European Commission therefore has a certain freedom of action in order to legally adapt that Regulation. But he adapted it by validating the full vaccination for 270 days. The original regulation doesn't say that's allowed. So I think they went ultra vires with that. In the previous debate, the Minister also said that Hungary and the Netherlands had objected. But if they weren't allowed to, and I don't think they were allowed to... Then there is the second problem that our Health Council for the 18-plussers in the Netherlands says "a booster: do." But for 12 to 17, he says: there is no medical-scientific evidence to offer that booster. And then they're not offered. How does the Minister view that you are obliged from a European point of view to get a booster if you have to leave? Everyone is talking about a ski holiday here, but Mrs Van den Berg and I know that you can also shop across the border if you live on the German or Belgian border. You can go across the border to go to school, or just like that. For me, it's a five-mile drive until I get to Germany. That's not a weird situation. So how do we proceed with that? Can you reverse this because they did something here that they weren't supposed to do, or should we just let that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u282	With regard to the latter and the technical aspect, I cannot give you an answer in this way, so I would like to return to that in the second term. I can't answer your questions like this. I fully agree with you that we are facing an extremely unfortunate situation, in which we are dealing with a negative opinion from the Health Council. That advice was given on understandable grounds, which have been explained to me. The Health Council really needs to look at the health benefits for the individual you're offering it to. At the same time, we have to deal with the fact that the EEA has not yet approved the boost vaccine, which of course is the same vaccine that was approved before the primary vaccination. The EEA has promised that within two and a half weeks, I believe, they will come forward with a statement on this matter. I'd like to wait and see. I can already say that, if the EEA approves it, I intend to offer the vaccine to those young people who want it for health reasons, for themselves and possibly for the protection of a vulnerable environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u283	I get that. That is also the logical order. You really don't want to do it the other way around, whether you're a doctor or a minister or both. That's obvious. But I'm trying to explain my reason as follows. I'm glad the Minister will come back to that later. So we are dealing here with a European directive that did not say that young people needed a booster, but that was changed halfway through a so-called implementing regulation which I do not think has a legal basis. I read it from front to back, and I couldn't find it. You could change other parameters, but not the parameters to make it temporarily valid. That, combined with the fact that neither the European authority nor the Dutch authority said that you should do so, is why I tabled that motion. But I didn't have three minutes to tell you. I am glad that you will come back to that and also see how you are going to address the Commission legally. They have walked through all the medical issues and they have effectively committed here to getting 15-year-olds a booster that has not been approved by the authorities. Actually, I think that's a lot. So I hope to have an answer later on as to whether that can be challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u284	As indicated, I cannot answer the question now. I'm also looking at my colleague, and he says no. So we'll get back to it. Mrs Simons asked me to keep the basic measures at least in indoor spaces. I've indicated that we're getting to other targets, namely living together with the virus. At the same time, this is also creating more freedom, with opinions rather than directives. I will often deliver those opinions in all ways, but they are opinions. As far as the long term is concerned, of course, we do not know what kind of variants we will have to deal with in the future. We can assume that the virus will not go away, but we hope that either this variant will remain, or the variants that we will get in the future will protect our accumulated immunity from serious disease, and that those variants will also be less sickening. I don't know if it is. It means that we will have to act again when there is a seriously sickening virus and the accumulated immunity is not properly protected. For now, it is possible to convert directives into opinions. Then there was Mrs Paulusma and Mrs Westerveld's question about what we do for vulnerable people. I have indicated that the last two years have been a real challenge for people with vulnerable health, for whatever reason. These are, for example, people who have had a transplant before, are treated for cancer or have lung disease. And it is still a challenge for them, even in a less sickening variant and also with the current vaccines. This means that where protective measures are no longer mandatory, such as mouth caps and the 1.5 metres, those measures are still strong advice. And that advice also applies to their environment. I deliberately mentioned the use of self-tests yesterday, for example when people visit. Those self-tests and mouth nose masks are available for social minima and for vulnerable people in home isolation. I am currently working out scenarios at the request of your Room to provide free self-tests and good mouth nose masks for different target groups. It looks at supply routes and legal implications and the associated costs and benefits. Mrs Bikker pointed out that it is not clear to everyone that a person is vulnerable. That's right, of course. Just looking at the age or something else, is more than inadequate. This means that we focus on this in communication and with tips specifically. There is a biweekly consultation with interest groups of vulnerable groups. With the relaxation of measures, we keep our finger on the pulse: what are their experiences and what should we act on, for example in communication? Mrs Paulusma asked about preparing for the future, preparing for bad weather.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u285	I have the impression that the minister is going to a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u286	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u287	I have another question about the measures. I asked about the masks on platforms and in shops. But I understand now that that's still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u288	Yeah, we didn't forget about him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u289	I had the impression that we were in the block of vaccinations/boosters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u290	I'll come back to the vaccinations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u291	In the technical briefing this morning, we saw that, although the infections are falling, they are increasing somewhat in the older generation. That older generation has been vaccinated and boosted twice. Could it be that because of these many vaccinations these people do not build up natural resistance, immunity? Is that what's causing the infections to get back on track? You don't have to answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u292	No, I can do that now. It's a crucial question. An infection is annoying for everyone. People of all ages can become seriously ill, only the older you are, the greater the chance. We know from previous situations with different variants that the level of defense and protection against serious diseases unfortunately decreases in time after an infection or after vaccination. We know this from experiences abroad, for example in Israel. If we look at the pace and timing in which the elderly, the over 60s, had a boost vaccination, that was in the second half of November, the first half of December. It's been a while now. In the past period it went well, despite the very high number of infections, but now we see it getting worse in the elderly group. It is crucial to continue monitoring this, because it is a question of whether the protective effect is decreasing in the meantime. I specifically asked the RIVM and the Health Council: monitor and advise whether at any time and, if so, at what point a renewed boost may be needed for a specific group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u293	So I understand that the fourth shot, the second boost, may be coming for the group of older people. In the past, we have seen that this will eventually turn down for the younger generations. I have asked the question before: what is the time when we say that we no longer do so, because your immunity or your protection may get shorter and then we will continue to booster? If those infections in certain groups get worse, maybe we'll get new lockdowns after all. So my question is: is there a view at a time when we say that we cannot continue to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u294	Thank you for this question. First of all, I apologize for not being completely clear. Now there is no intention, no planning, no timing for another boost. I think this, also for a general public, is important to name. But it is wise to be prepared if necessary if the number of infections in the older group would increase and the number of people who then become seriously ill too. We share the fact that we really want to avoid having to take stricter measures after all. Whether it is wise at any time to do a new boost, or whether we see that people are sufficiently protected by spreading the infection with time, is such a question that the experts of the Health Council should advise on. I don't know the answer now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u295	Could the Minister please tell us when that answer is coming? The question lies, I understand. Within what time can we hear anything whether the fourth shot or the second boost is coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u296	That depends a little bit on the situation. It's also a monitoring. Of course, it has to do with the number of infections. It also has to do with the then dominant or circulating variant. If I'm just looking for now, we're still dealing with the omikron variant. It is a sub-type, but it is the omikron variant. At the moment, there is an obvious decrease in the number of infections. Then you can sit quietly on your hands. But there may be another moment. Then you must be prepared to act if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u297	Speaking of the boost: people who have been vaccinated with Janssen have then had a second shot. They've had a boost. This is sufficient for the Netherlands, but not for abroad. People who have had Janssen from my mind are about 800,000 people who cannot go abroad with their European vaccination certificate. Is it clear when the people who want it can get a boost again? I hate to say it, because it's about health, but those people want to travel. That's what we keep hearing. When can they get that boost so that they simply have access to the rest of Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u298	I recognize the problem. I'm currently investigating if we can offer an extra boost to this particular group of people who have been vaccinated with Janssen and then had a boost. An extra shot can only be given for medical reasons three months after their last. Since we started with that boost only late in the autumn, in the last winter, and most people had their boost in December, that could be an extra shot in mid-March.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u299	Finally. Mid-March. So there are enough vaccines for that particular group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u300	Yeah, there are. Before then, I will clarify what possibilities there are for that group. There are also the possibilities to give that boost quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u301	Fine. I'd appreciate it if the minister could get into some finalizing spheres so I can suspend for dinner. We also have Mrs Yeșilgöz who is going to speak to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u302	I'm gonna stick with the vaccination. There was a further question from Mr Omtzigt concerning the draft supplementary budget for the possible re-invigoration. The 50-plussers or the 60-plussers were mentioned. I have asked RIVM to draw up an implementation plan in order to be able to do a quick offense, so with a shorter pre-announcement and a shorter execution period than we have had before. This is all the more true when it comes to a specific age group. There was a question from Mrs Tielen. What about people who have had Janssen and want a booster, but who have an allergic reaction? On the advice of the Health Council, there is a preference for a booster with a mRNA vaccine. In exceptional cases, Janssen can also be used as a booster if a mRNA vaccine has a contra-indication. People with an allergic reaction can be vaccinated in the hospital under the supervision of an allergologist. This was vaccination. Then I'll be on the long run. Mrs Paulusma and Mrs Van Esch asked about the long term. We are preparing for different scenarios. I will return to the long-term strategy in March. Mr Van der Staaij asked what the cabinet would do other than what it has done so far when a new variant appears in the coming months that is more sickening and contagious. As has just been discussed, we do not know whether there will be new variants and when, even in the combination of infectiousness and illness. That is what we must monitor. That's RIVM, in all kinds of ways. This does not necessarily have to be tested and typified by each individual. This can also be done in other ways, such as sewer water measurement and so on. And, of course, through international contacts. The starting point will be to keep society open as much as possible, in line with a letter I recently sent to you. Mrs Bikker asked how we will continue to promote the return of responsibility to society. We put conversations on that in many ways. We do that in communication, too. Then there were several questions about the A classification of the coronavirus. What criteria are needed to give it a B status? We are happy to proceed with the classification of the virus and will also take this into account in the forthcoming letter on the long term. For now, it's too early to say it's not A disease anymore. But I will go into it further in the long-term letter. Many of you asked the question what the plan is with the fifth extension of the Twm and the period after that. We come in March with a letter on the long-term approach. In that letter we will also indicate what it means for the further legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u303	However, I would like clarification from the Minister, because I believe that the current extension will run until 1 March and the Minister is just saying that his long-term letter will come in March. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u304	We need a further extension from you. What happens in the long term after that, I will continue to state. At the moment, the Temporary Law provides the legal framework for measures around COVID-19. In the situation we are now in, we have already outlined it, although there is a reduction in the number of infections, the number is still very high. With a rapid pace of relaxation, it is relevant to take account of a further significant increase in the number of infections, as well as the loss of staff, colleagues, pupils, as well as the pressure on care. So we still have to maintain an opportunity to take certain measures if necessary. We are not waiting for that at all, but it must be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u305	I get that. Is the Minister prepared to ensure, during the following period, that something comes into the Public Health Act in one way or another, including after the Bikker/Kikker motion, so that there is no need for further extension at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u306	Yes, I fully share with you that we must extend it further. At what time can a Public Health Act be adapted? Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u307	I have one more question. Well, that's convenient, because I've only got one interruption left. I just heard the Minister say something about A status. Now there is a great deal of uncertainty about this, including in citizens' homes. We are getting a great deal of these questions, and I am sure colleagues here too. The First Chamber still has to decide on that. What about the legal status of the corona measures in the last two years, if they have not yet been ratified by the Supreme Court? I would like to have a clear answer to that, but it would also be good if the Minister could explain this to the citizens at home. That may sound a little weird, but that's what we're in for. Besides, I don't think it's weird at all. They don't understand. I often don't get it either. I'm afraid I don't have legal training. In short, it might be good to explain for a moment the legal status of the corona measures as long as they have not yet been adopted by the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u308	Yes. You've seen me look at my colleague. We shall come back to that. I fully agree with you: you need to be able to explain that to the citizen, too. Thanks, by the way, to all those citizens who take all these measures every time, such as testing and the willingness to go into isolation or quarantine. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to my folder. There was a question from Mrs Van den Berg about the funding of a TNO project on measuring equipment for viruses in the air. Together with EZK and Health~Holland, a proposal from TNO is being examined. We shall be happy to return to that in the next debate. Mrs Van den Berg also had a question about a Belgian professor and Mr Van Ranst, who would do research with Dutch companies. Research with air cleaners is not done with the Belgian RIVM, but with the research team of the University of Leuven. That investigation is still under way and is being followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u309	I had understood from the media that air cleaners have already been placed in schools in Brabant, that those air cleaners have actually been made available free of charge by Dutch companies and that the Dutch government is completely detached. I would find it extremely sad if Belgium were to lead what the Netherlands could do with technical measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u310	I'm not aware of this placement at schools in Brabant. I do know that's what we've been talking about before, from a pilot with air cleaners in Staphorst. I'll have to check on the other thing. I don't know. Mrs Bikker had a question about self-testing. We have now distributed 110 million self-tests across the Netherlands from our side. This has been done on many different routes. I won't list the numbers by which route they are. Mrs Agema had a question about fundamental rights and violence. The legislative proposals relating to COVID-19 and also the ministerial regulations describe the fundamental rights that are affected and why the restriction in that situation is justified. Mrs Tielen asked about the QR pass elsewhere in Europe. We still need the DCC for that. I mentioned all the discussions I had on this. Mrs Van den Berg asked a question about complications with the registration of boosters abroad. The European regulation requires that the country issuing the vaccination is responsible for issuing the DCC. We are currently investigating whether it is possible to load foreign DCCs in the CoronaCheck app.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u311	These are people who are in Germany for example for a long time. They call the GGD in advance with the question: if I let them booster me here, can this be included in the Dutch registration system? It is said: yes. So then they had this booster in Germany, but when they come to the Netherlands, the GGD says: no, none of that can be done. People then have the problem that they don't have a valid, originally Dutch QR code here. The solution that was there doesn't work. In the previous instance during the primary vaccinations, we saw, with regard to vaccinations from abroad, that there was a window in Utrecht where the vaccinations came together, which allowed the registrations to be arranged. I would therefore like a promise from the Minister that he will organise that for this point as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u312	I asked RIVM to explore the possibility of registering foreign vaccinations in the Netherlands. As already indicated, the country where the vaccination was placed is responsible for issuing the digital corona certificate. Mr Van Meijeren asked whether I agree that the Netherlands should always remain in charge of its own public health and its own policies. I agree that the organisation of health care is a national competence. Cooperation at European level is extremely important. Mr Kuzu and Mr Omtzigt asked about the 30 million extra budget for corona apps. This budget is based on the current situation and is intended to cover all the costs of all the digital support instruments implemented so far in the context of the pandemic. This includes: the CoronaMelder, the CoronaCheck app, the GGD contact apps and the associated portals and helpdesks. Mr Omtzigt asked why it was decided to terminate the Digital Support Guidance Committee. This committee has been set up to advise on the technical developments of the new applications I have just mentioned. These are now in another phase, namely that of further development and management. Then I'll get to lung covid and mental health. Mrs Paulusma asked: the Health Council concludes that more attention is needed for long covid. Is the cabinet willing to give an appreciation on this advice? Via ZonMw is already committed to additional research. I will continue to discuss quality assurance in accordance with the recommendations of the Health Council. Then Mrs Paulusma asked about the WIA through long covid and how the conversation went. In addition to the recommendations of the Task Force Support, my colleague, the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport, is talking to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Finance and the UWV about how we can effectively support employers in order to maintain long-term health care providers who are ill for long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u313	I hear the Minister on the advice of the Health Council. I know RIVM's busy. However, I would also like a response from the cabinet to this opinion. As far as I am concerned, this can also be linked to the long term that is yet to come, because I think that for a lot of lung covid patients it is precisely about that long term. I would also like to see you refer to your colleague if that part is taken into account in the long term, especially for those care workers who are likely to be in the WIA in two weeks' time. I hope you'll be able to respond a little more to that than you just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u314	I intend to focus more on public awareness of post-covid syndrome in society. That's just what I call it in line with the Health Council. She will return to my colleague's conversation with the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u315	Mrs Westerveld has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u316	I find this answer somewhat unsatisfactory. In education and in healthcare sectors, a lot of people had no choice. They had to go to work and help people in nursing homes, stand on hospital beds and work in education. Some of these people have lung covid problems. I would like to hear more specifically from the Minister what he can do, in cooperation with his colleagues, to acknowledge this and ensure that there are good arrangements for these specific groups that had no choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u317	We will certainly do that as a ministry, but the subject is in my colleague's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u318	Very good. I have the smell of dinner in my nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u319	It's gonna be all right. I was gonna say it's still awfully early, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u320	For you, perhaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u321	For me, yeah. Mrs Westerveld said that FNV has proposed a concession... this is the same subject. We just talked about that. Mrs Bikker asked if I can guarantee that the pressure on nursing care is closely monitored, also in relation to the pbm. The answer is yes, I guarantee it. On the dashboard you will find daily new data on the number of infections in the nursing homes. In addition, sufficient personal protective equipment has been in stock for a long time now. Mrs Bikker also asked about mental health in society, also following the confirmation this week of the Health Council. In the coming years we will keep a close eye on the mental consequences for the Dutch population. A multi-annual monitor has been turned off by the RIVM to keep an eye on it. The coalition agreement also states that we are broadening the prevention agreement with the subject of mental resilience. Mrs Den Haan asked if I could promise that the focus should be on care for the elderly and nursing homes and not one-sidedly on hospitals. I can make a full commitment to that. It is in line with the answer I just gave. It's a fair remark. I have another question from Mrs Den Haan about vulnerable people who pay their caregivers with a pgb. If they are not paid through, they are going to stop; can the Minister ensure that the arrangement of unpaid care is extended by six months? I understand the point made by Mrs Den Haan. That scheme she's pointing out has been very useful in the past year. At the same time, we are now in another phase. This also means an adjustment in regulations. At the pgb we go back to the starting point that the care has to be delivered. With this we follow the choices for "back to normal" made for natural care. Mr Omtzigt asked whether there were any memos on state liability and whether it had been considered, following the fact that the protection was not properly made available to people in the care, where people died and had a lung covid. I am not aware of any memos or opinions on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u322	A question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u323	Does this mean that there was no thought at all when RIVM guidelines came in, and also guidelines from the Ministry of Health, which were endorsed by the SZW Inspection, not to use mouth-nose masks in the nursing homes, not to use mouth-nose masks in home care and hundreds of people died a week and many people there walked on long covid? Wasn't there a discussion at the time that couldn't be done? In fact, we prohibited the use of...............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u324	As indicated earlier in this debate, the discussion focused on the indications that protective equipment should be used in this situation. We talked about the first wave in particular. That was a situation where there was much unknown about the virus, the symptoms, the infectiousness, the expression, etc. At that time, not only in the nursing homes, but in many places and actually everywhere in the care was the directive on the use of protective equipment in the care of patients with proven covid, or with suspicion of covid. That was the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u325	That was the situation to some extent. The RIVM directive was even tighter: if you were only with a corona patient for a limited period of time, for example five minutes, you wouldn't have to have protection. If you could have kept a distance of 1.5 meters, you wouldn't have to have protection, even though that person was coughing heavily and it was clear that there was a risk of infection. In those days, a lot of people got infected. Germany has already adapted this at the end of March, while there was still a very large shortage of mouth and nose masks here in April and May 2020, and there was also a very high excess mortality rate, especially among people using Wlz. Hasn't there been any discussion at all about the fact that if the State says you can't use them, you're responsible for the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u326	The question was whether there were memos or advice. I'm telling you, I don't know them. If the question is whether I know about discussions at the time, for example in medical practice: of course I know about them. I was involved in that. I have had these discussions carefully in the healthcare institution where I was a care director at the time, but also in the region, rural, etc. That was in a setting where we didn't know much. The original idea was that people were contagious only in the period in which they had complaints. That was the setting. Later on, we learned a lot more. That was also a bit the setting of the whole picture of a shift, for example about protective equipment in general. We are now talking extensively about the use of mouth caps in a setting like this. Mine's right here. That too was a completely different conversation back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u327	That's right. The conversation was different. The level of knowledge was less in February. At the latest in March, there were pieces about presymptomatic contamination. You can see that in medical literature. There was even one from Mr Wallinga, who was also the model of the RIVM. So at that time it was really clear that that was a route. Of course there were discussions at the hospital in Rotterdam. That makes sense to me. I am very curious whether those discussions were not conducted at all in the ministries, or here, where orders were given to be very economical, while protective equipment was available. That was different from our neighbouring countries. You say that this has not resulted in opinions on the fact that you can take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u328	As indicated, I am currently not aware of any memos or advice. Of course, I have to rely on the input that I now have available. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of the answer to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u329	You thought so, but Mrs Westerveld has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u330	I'm sorry I'm gonna have to take dinner break back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u331	I'll try to answer briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u332	I will also try to ask a concise question. I mentioned it in my contribution: D66 and GroenLinks are working on a legislative proposal to legally define the right to work at home. I would like to ask the Minister if he would like to work on this bill in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u333	Can I come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u334	Then Mrs. Den Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u335	The Minister owes me two more answers to my questions about preventive therapies for the most vulnerable people who have been immunocompromised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u336	I shall come back to that in the second term as well. I'm not aware that I skipped those questions in the pile. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u337	Very good. Then we'll listen to the appetizer for our dinner, Minister Yeşilgöz. I understand that she has a modest contribution, but we would not want to miss it. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three more questions here. They're all equally important, but I want to start with the violence and intimidation towards aid workers, for example, the GGD. I got questions about that from the VVD and D66. It seems to me very good to emphasise once again that caregivers who face serious threats really deserve our support, because those threats are unacceptable. They really need to be able to do their important work in a safe working environment at any time. Threatening people there for our safety and our health is taken very seriously by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. GGD employees are covered by the so-called One-Dual Rural Appointments and therefore have a public task. Police and D.A. are looking very closely at this type of thing. This means that they will be given priority, as agreed in that approach. It also agreed that an increase of the penalty requirement to 200% would be possible. Your Chamber also knows that we also have the public service ban, specifically aimed at aggression towards this group. It's in the First Chamber now. I thought it would be a good idea to stress once again that we are doing everything we can to ensure that, as soon as possible, rapid law applies here too, where possible, to impose more severe penalties, and also to ensure that the public service ban is included. Then I have a question from Mrs Paulusma and Mrs Van den Berg about carnival and the carnival masters, with whom I regularly reflect on what carnival will look like. I learned from the carnival masters and everyone who celebrates carnival that it's not about the question: is carnival going on or not? Carnival's here. The question is: how does it go on, within the measures we have? Minister Kuipers has already said a few things about this. There was another supplementary question from Mrs Van den Berg. In the end, the mayors I have spoken to, of course, are not all the mayors who are dealing with carnival in their congregation have indicated that there will be no organised events in most places. So that's different than usual. The parades have also been cancelled. This is often done by the associations and the people themselves, because they saw that it would be very complicated this year. They're gonna look for ways to celebrate, but different than usual. The expectation is that it will be mainly a catering carnival, so people will celebrate it in the pubs and in the cafés. Then you simply have to deal with the measures and the rules that apply to the whole country. There are therefore no exceptions or special exemptions for carnival. This means that from February 25th and shortly thereafter it will also start only for unplaced restaurants and events with more than 500 visitors 1G will apply. Events will not be discussed in most municipalities. If you have a café or a pub where more than 500 people can enter, 1G will be needed. We are now looking together with mayors and entrepreneurs at how this can be designed. Where the number of visitors is under 500, people can celebrate carnival and then go to another pub. Perhaps one more comment on enforcement. Carnival, as we have said for all matters in the last two years, is always a question of compliance with the rules. How do we celebrate carnival? That's where we're at. Control? Entrepreneurs will have to comply with the measures in force. And maintenance as a final piece. Each mayor will look in the triangle and with the municipality and the entrepreneurs at what that means for the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u339	The subject of carnival raises questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u340	One of the questions was how much you could disable for carnival 1G. Organizing 1G seems like a hell of a job. We asked as CDA in January to look at technology that apparently was also used in Glasgow to link self-tests with codes. We haven't heard from him since. But that could give you speed. So can it not be considered to bypass 1G and disable it with carnival? 'Cause I don't think it's possible to organize.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u341	If Mrs Van den Berg has listened carefully to me, she has heard that 1G will only apply in pubs, cafes and in closed places where more than 500 people can enter. This will not be the case at all in most municipalities. People will be able to celebrate in the cafés simply because the number remains below 500. Events have been cancelled in most municipalities. The parades have also been cancelled. I have asked the mayors to pay attention to this too, because then it is more manageable and people can still celebrate, in a way that we can live up to. From my position, I am not in favour of exceptions for carnival or for certain areas in the country. There's no way we're gonna help the mayors and enforcers with that. Moreover, these rules apply for a certain reason. You've been debating that all night. But it is good to see how it can be done together and that is emphatically in this way. For 1G, pressure is now being studied how this can be well designed for locations above 500 people where necessary, carnival or no carnival. For the whole country, it's necessary to get it right. VWS is working on it with all the partners involved. But I can tell you that the mayors of most municipalities were already very pleased with this perspective. Because what would it look like after February 25? Now they can still celebrate carnival in their town or village, although different than usual, but still with a beautiful party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u342	You thought we'd go in polonaise to the interrupting microphone. But no, I had another question to the Minister about the piece before that. It is very good to hear how GD employees are dealt with and how they are also part of the public task. We seem to be in some sort of turning point, with two years behind us and a long-term policy in the future. I would actually like to hear from the Minister whether she is choosing a moment somewhere to inform us about how that actually worked out in practice. There are good instruments available, and I am pleased to say so, but I am curious whether the reports we read in the newspapers and on social media also reflect the practical application of the instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u343	Just an enlightening question from my side. If I understand correctly, you also mean a look back at the past two years, where you may not be able to distinguish very much between corona-related and non-corona-related activities, but on how matters such as fast-track law and higher criminal standards have been used. This is reported and then landed at the J&V Commission. We can certainly point out to Mrs Tielen and colleagues who are interested in this, where these reports can be found. Then I have one more question about the masks on platforms and in shops at Mrs Van den Berg's stations. Maybe it's a good idea to get a short list of what we're doing right now. Minister Kuipers has already explained this. The mouth cap remains mandatory in the O.V. The reason is, of course, that we are still dealing with high levels of contamination and, as Mrs Westerveld pointed out, the fact that people do not always have the space and the opportunity to choose whether or not to go with the DVD. Often this is necessary for work, study, family or doctor's visit. The OMT strongly calls for attention to be paid to the vulnerable in terms of relaxation. That's why it's still mandatory there. That is also why masks remain mandatory on platforms and in shops at the station. In practice, it appears that different regimes in one location do not benefit compliance. It's getting really clueless what's meant to be. That is also one of the lessons of the last two years. It is also what we have often been given back by enforcers, police and mayors: ensure a clear line, because then it is in any case clear. I understand the question and I also understand that you can ask the question: but why? But this is the basis. As far as I am concerned, we are monitoring each other closely in the coming period whether that is indeed so logical or whether another consideration would be better, both from the care perspective and from the point of view of enforcement. But it is more from the obligation in the O.V. that we make it clear and apply one regime in the same domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u344	Mr President, I think this is going to be my last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u345	I'm honored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u346	I would ask the Minister to consult with the NS and public transport in the near future, because I am told that it is the opposite when you ask only in the State. That is sometimes a challenge, but a lot of people can understand that. I very much support the Minister in this. I also agree with what Mrs Westerveld said, because it is precisely when fewer people start working at home that congestion can happen again. Precisely obligation in the open spaces, and then in the shop in the city not but in the shop at the station does, leads to a lot of hassle. Would the Minister like to make a commitment to discuss this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u347	Yes. Chances are that'll be my colleague from IenW. However, I do not think that matters to Mrs van den Berg if the transporters are properly consulted on how this can be done. And this must be based on the idea of "the protection of the vulnerable."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u348	Thank you. Minister Yeşilgöz is of course very welcome to spend the evening with us. It's warm, it's cozy and there's tea and coffee, but given the modest character of her contribution, she might prefer to go to the ministry for a few more hours. I'm gonna take a look at the room, too. If there are members who say "Mrs Yeşilgöz absolutely must stay with us for perhaps anything," then... But I don't really hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u349	Then I would even like to join the Colombian President's visit for a moment to talk about tackling undermining, which is also very important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u350	Then the puzzle pieces fit perfectly together. Then we thank Mrs Yeşilgöz for her presence and wish her a pleasant evening. I'll suspend for dinner until 7:40. Then we do the second term and then each member has one minute left for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u351	I'm reopening for the second term of the Chamber. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Tielen from the VVD group. I'm sure she'll make it in a minute. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is something I must say: I find it rather difficult to find that sometimes it seems as if Members of Parliament are more right when they talk louder and especially when they throw more and stronger terms into the Chamber. Actually, I hope we're gonna do a little less of that. I have one question and one motion. In one of the previous debates in recent weeks, the Minister had promised to give me an overview of all the measures taken over the last two years to combat the virus. He'd do that in a stand-of-business letter. I've been looking a bit, but I didn't find it in this letter, although I do find it pleasant to discuss that overview in the long-term corona policy. If the Minister can send that somewhere else in the next few weeks, then that would be nice. And I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that decision-making by both the cabinet and parliament during the coronapandemic is largely based on independent scientific advice from the OMT;]] [[Whereas it is important for society and its confidence in science and politics that members of the Outbreak Management Team, the OMT, give these opinions independently and autonomously;]] [[calls on the Government, also on the basis of the OVV report, to carry out a thorough analysis of the advisory and decision-making process and to draw lessons from it;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to this analysis, to closely frame the independence and autonomy of interested parties in the advisory and decision-making process so that this can be ensured for the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Tielen, Mr Paulusma, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Bikker.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1786]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. And also thank you for drawing a line. I think that was very necessary and I think the Minister was quite clear as well. I think that was a very important moment. So thank you for that. Then lung covid and booster vaccination for young people. I just mentioned the vacation young people, but of course they are also young people who have a vulnerable family member. I am therefore looking forward to the follow-up and the letter from the cabinet. Finally. As Mr Tielen said, I am standing under the motion for a resolution on greater transparency. I co-signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u354	Half a minute, very good. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u355	I have three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that personal protective equipment (PBM) protects against contagion with corona and thus against a serious course of covid;]] [[points out that during the first corona wave PBM should have been generously available to staff in nursing homes, home care and home help, so that they could have protected themselves against contagion with corona and a serious course of covid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that compliance with the ventilation guidelines of the Building Decision could reduce the number of corona contaminations in nightclubs by as much as 70% according to the RIVM;]] [[calls on the Government to optimise the ventilation guidelines set out in the Building Decision for schools, offices, restaurants and other indoor areas so as to reduce contamination with corona,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the effectiveness of all the source measures, basic measures and contact-limiting measures used to flatt the curve so as to be able to dispose of the so-called toolbox of tools which are not sufficiently effective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1787]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1788]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1789]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u356	I would like to make a small point about Mrs Tielen. She said at some point that she was in favour of the fact that there would eventually be fewer ic-recordings and that it was therefore a good thing that we had so little ic-capacity. That is wrong, because all the source measures and all the contact-limiting measures are aimed at flatting the curve, i.e. to spread the number of patients over time. They are never meant to reduce the total number of patients, so the VVD is also wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u357	That's what we've noted. Mrs. Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u358	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the directors for the answers. Following on from what Mrs Tielen said, I would like to repeat what I have said before: let us play here on the ball and not on the man and not on the person. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers that there is consultation with the mayors to organise a fine carnival in the South, and also that we are talking to the NS and public transport in order to organise the enforcement of the mouth caps properly. In the next letter, the Minister will return to the project with TNO, which is currently being discussed with Economic Affairs and Health~Holland. I would like to ask the Minister whether he can also return in the next letter to the research into air cleaning which the Brabant schools are now participating in. I would like to hear a commitment on that. We also supported Mrs Tielen's motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u359	Very good. Thank you. Whoever needs a minute is Mr Hijink of the SP. I know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u360	I will make the most of the speaking time, Mr President. I want to make two points. I heard the Minister say twice that in the first phase of the pandemic protective equipment was always available to those caregivers who were in direct contact with corona patients. I heard him say that, and I also understand that from his point of view as a driver in a hospital, it makes perfect sense, because why wouldn't you protect caregivers when they're in contact with a corona patient? But the whole point is that we have discussed, debated, argued with the minister for a year and a half, because this was not at all normal in the care of the elderly. That it was not at all the norm in the care of the elderly but also in the care of the disabled that you were given protective equipment when you walked into the room of a corona patient. That's the point. That's the point. At important moments, for example in volatile contact or if you had to pass someone, if you could keep your distance, all fictitious situations that do not occur at all in practice, then the protective equipment was not necessary. That is precisely the whole point that we have had with Minister De Jonge for a long time. The second point concerns the request from the committee this morning to the Minister and also the question I asked him about the OMT opinions and to what extent they were or were not influenced by the Ministry. The Minister has promised 'we are going to send the draft opinions to the Chamber', but that was not my question and it is not enough with regard to the SP either. We would like to see these documents, but we also want to have the e-mails that went from the Ministry to the OMT and the RIVM, so that we can see exactly what requests have been made to the OMT from the Ministry. I want that commitment from the Minister today. It's not some kind of choice, either. The request for that information has already been made by the Chamber, in a majority. I would like to stress that once again: it is more than just draft opinions. It's about the e-mails that go with it. I'm assuming the Minister's gonna stick to that, too. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u361	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The mixing of roles, the role concept, and the interference of the Ministry in OMT opinions, are not only undesirable and undermine not only confidence. But it is also contrary to the code of conduct on scientific integrity. I have a question for the Minister. I would like to ask him if he agrees with me that it is precisely in the interests of our institutions and our trust to ensure that scientists can do their work independently. If he agrees with me, I'd like to ask him the following. Maybe I'll rob him with that and get the answer in a couple of weeks. But I would like to ask him how he sees the role of the members of the OMT in that light. Does he agree with me that it would be much better if members of the OMT were not also civil servants at the same time and in that sense also have a connection with the Ministry? As a result of that question, I also have a motion for a resolution. It is also about ensuring the independence of institutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the OVV report is highly critical of the interrelation of roles during the corona crisis;]] [[noting that the President of the Council for Health and Society and several professors also advocate making RIVM an independent administrative body rather than an agency;]] [[believes that it is precisely in the interests of our institutions to ensure even better independence;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[submit a plan to the Chamber to consider whether the RIVM is an independent administrative body;]] [[not allow the Ministry and the RIVM to make textual adjustments to the OMT opinion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1790]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u363	Thank you, Mr President. I've been doing corona debates for almost two years. I haven't seen many of us do a second term at 7:45 p.m. Maybe not, I'm just saying. I think that's a unique thing. I believe that this Minister has given very brief and concise answers. I think the presidency went very well today. So thank you for thinking that we still have a piece of our evening. Also thank you for all the answers given to all our questions tonight. I do feel that we are waiting for some answers. But I hope that March will give us a lot of nice answers. The relaxations we are looking at still call for us to take real risks. We're really excited about that. I didn't find all the answers equally convincing either. I think, for example, why can't we continue with masks in shops? Also relaxes such as dropping the homework advice are relaxations that we would not have had to do for a while. I think we would have had a society that might have gone a little less towards risk. I have already referred to the fact that we certainly look forward to speaking with this minister next week about zoonoses and to looking forward to it, even in the long term. That debate is scheduled for next week. Then we also have the many conclusions from the OVV report. We have quite rightly already given an incentive to continue with this tonight. We have already thought a lot about this in recent years, but I think it is very right that we should have many debates on it in the near future, at least one very wide-ranging debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u364	We look forward to that. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Now again with microphone: thank you for your excellent guidance. You'd like to hear it twice. Thanks also to the rulers, so to the minister sitting here and, of course, to the Minister of Justice, she is from among us, but you will be sure to answer this clearly. Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union Group it is a good, beautiful week, because we put the responsibility, especially in dealing with corona, back in society as much as possible. That brings freedom and that's beautiful. At the same time, it also brings responsibility for all of us, precisely to ensure that we prevent contamination and the most important thing to take care of the vulnerable among us. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment that he will also be in regular consultation with organisations of people who are really vulnerable at this time. I would also like to thank him for his commitment that, if extra things are needed, he will ensure that one way or another we do this properly with each other. Then these people will not have a very exciting spring, but we will also be a shield for their protection as much as possible, I would say. Mr. Chairman. It was also about the independent opinion of the OMT. The Minister has indicated that he will really guarantee that, even towards the future. Many lessons that we can learn and mistakes that have been made, this Chamber still has to debate. The Minister said that the response to the OVV report was due in mid-March. I am looking at the President, but I expect the Chamber to debate these lessons soon afterwards. I would like to emphasise that I think it is important for the Minister to involve the taking of society and the naming of what goes well in that long-term strategy. I thought it was so beautiful sometimes complimenting it is also worth a lot at this place when the minister in the press conference indicated how that helped self-tests. This way people get to know that they also contribute to fighting and dealing with corona, while at the same time taking good care of each other. I therefore hope that the principle of subsidiarity, as I mentioned earlier, will be at the heart of government policy in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u366	Thank you. Then Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u367	Mr. Chairman. Since last summer, children have also been injected into the Netherlands using experimental gene therapy that is misleadingly called "a vaccine." In the FVD's opinion, this is a great shame, because healthy children have nothing to fear from corona and the injections involve even major health risks. Thus, the policy is already disastrous, but, to the extent of disaster, it has also been shown that the GGD has failed to comply with the law in the implementation of this policy. The law requires that children aged 12 to 15, when they come to the site alone, always check whether the parents are aware and have given permission. According to the law, the child should also always be interviewed to check that the child is well informed. In practice, none of this appears to be happening. What is even more shocking than these abuses, if possible, is the response of the GGD and the minister. It is acknowledged that this is indeed the legal procedure to be followed, but then denies that this procedure is not being followed in practice, even though it is recorded on video. This simply says that the images have been manipulated, which is factually and demonstrably incorrect. Mr. Chairman. The fact that mistakes have been made up to now, but that children are being illegally pricked, is criminal. The GGD and the minister think they're above the law. The truth must and will come to light. That is why I invite the Minister to look at all the raw images together, so that it will be clear that we have not taken anything out of context or cut and pasted and that the Minister can still put things in order. And if the Minister does not accept that offer, thereby jeopardising the health and physical integrity of children, I will be tabling a motion of censure at the next opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u368	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u369	Mr Van Meijeren again uses very big words. He takes the word criminally in his mouth. May I point out to Mr Van Meijeren that in our Civil Code Article 450 also states that in those situations where a child does not have the consent of the parents, the child may ultimately decide whether or not to do a medical act, including, for example, vaccination? It says in the Code that this is allowed if it is considered and there is a conversation. In that little Forum movie I saw, that conversation is also being held. Someone in charge is being called in. So I don't really know where Mr Van Meijeren's huge mouth comes from when the GGD acted exactly in accordance with our Civil Code in this particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u370	Mr Hijink misinterpreted the law or misinterpreted the video. The main rule is that the parents have to give permission. That is also recognised by the Minister. So that needs to be checked. Then it is true that if the parents have refused permission and the child continues to want the injection, the injection may be made without the consent of the parents. However, this does not happen in practice. What we see is that a child without parents goes to a location and the GGD employee just says: sit down and pull up your sleeve. Only when the child explicitly expresses doubts about the vaccination, to have questions about the side effects, will there be a conversation, and we also see that at the moment when the child indicates that he wants to talk to the parents at home, such a GGD employee says: ah boy, you are here now... It is pretended that the mere fact that a child wants a QR code is a good reason. A doctor said if you don't get vaccinated now, you won't be able to go to McDonald's for the next few months. It is a shame that Mr Hijink does not take these concerns seriously and that he pretends that this is all in the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u371	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u372	I see mainly a storm in a glass of water. I understand, of course, that Mr Van Meijeren has to make a huge point of this, because he has been making a noise about this amazing undercover action of his for three weeks. But quite frankly, it just doesn't mean so much when you look at what exactly happened by the GGD at the time. A child between 12 and 16 is not a kindergarten or a baby who is incompetent. That is why our Civil Code also states that at that age you can decide yourself in the end about medical procedures such as vaccination. I think that Mr Van Meijeren should not be so concerned and should have a little more appreciation for the work that is being done at the GGD. His actions also have consequences, as we saw in Heerlen. He should watch out for that and just see what's in the law. He should also give young people a little more confidence that they are not completely crazy, but can make a sensible decision on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u373	My interpretation of the law is shared by the GGD and the minister. The GGD and the minister do not deny that what is on those images is not in line with the law. What the GGD is saying is that those images are manipulated, that it's not true what's on those images. They acknowledge that if that were so, it would indeed be contrary to the law, but they say: those images have been manipulated. A child from 12 to 16 may decide on minor medical interventions, but this is not a paracetam ball or a suture in the knee. It is an irreversible act. A genetic code is injected into that child's body with all the risks involved. And children don't do that because they worry about their health or because they run some kind of health risk at all, but because otherwise they're excluded from their boyfriends and girlfriends, because they can't go to McDonald's anymore. It's a perverse incentive for children to have experimental gene therapy injected, and that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u374	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u375	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. In the first term, we have also stated on behalf of JA21 that we consider it important to be able to return to normal social and administrative relations as soon as possible. That means life with the virus for us, too. There is a point of view as to how we will deal with the law in the near future. There's another extension decision coming up. We would like to stress once again the importance of letting go at some point. We shouldn't stick to this toolbox too long. I recall that the Public Health Act is a relatively new law. The law dates back to 2008, so we shouldn't have the idea that with the expiry of the temporary law we can't do anything at all. That law was intended precisely to be able to withstand crises in the field of infectious diseases. It therefore calls again for a weighting of the instruments that you still want to have at your disposal. Mr. Chairman. One specific question from the first period that has not yet been addressed. I referred to Rule 58ra, second paragraph, point (a) of the Wpg. This was in a court of law the other day. With the current virological situation, are you allowed to align the vaccination and the recovery certificate with a negative test result? After all, due to time cycles, vaccination and immunity suffer from recovery. Because we seem to keep that corona evidence longer in Europe, there may be a risk to the legal sustainability of that equivalence in the event of a changed virological situation. Mr President, that was my second contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u376	Highly appreciated. Then Mr Kuzu of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u377	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given in the first term. I would also like to thank you for chairing this debate. For my part, I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to send the draft recommendations of the OMT to the Chamber, including the corresponding mail changes, so that we can check whether there are only clarifications or whether there is a little more behind it, so that we can carry out our monitoring task. We also discussed the OVV opinion during the debate. The Minister indicated that the cabinet would return to this, but the conclusions and recommendations of that report are clear. The Minister has already indicated that he can get rid of the recommendations, but I do not want to do anything ifs and buts. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Minister to adopt without delay all the conclusions of the OVV report and to present before the summer a plan for learning and improvement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1791]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u378	During my contribution I also mentioned the Corona apps that may also be used, also according to several professors and scientists, for purposes other than those for which they are intended. You can also see this in the German state of Brandenburg, where one of the corona apps is used by the Public Prosecutor's Office to, for example, establish locations. That's not what those corona apps are for. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Corona Access Card was initially suggested by KPMG to allow meetings for large groups of people at the time of a pandemic;]] [[Whereas the application of the corona admission certificate was soon extended to catering, cinemas and theatres, which was not the actual purpose;]] [[Whereas several scientists fear standardisation of health checks and that we end up with a health infrastructure that can be used by government and industry for quite different purposes;]] [[declares that the Corona apps will never be used for purposes other than those for which they are initially intended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1792]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u379	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u380	Thank you. One more question from Mr Hijink, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u381	Yeah, about the first motion. Do I understand that Mr Kuzu is tabling a motion to decide now to take over all the recommendations of the OVV and to come up with a plan for the summer? I know what you mean, but it's kind of uncomfortable. That report is more than 300 pages thick. We have been in a debate here today and in a briefing with Van Dissel. We haven't been able to read all that yet. I wouldn't even know exactly what recommendations they make in what order. How can we vote in favour of such a motion when we still have to have the debate and have not read the whole report? You didn't read that yourself. It just can't be that you've read it yourself. So you are probably now tabling a motion to make a plan on proposals that you have not even read yourself. I would therefore ask that this be postponed and that we wait until we have had the debate on the report by the OVV. You also put us in an uncomfortable position. Maybe I'm all for it in the end, but I just can't judge it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u382	In any case, I have read the conclusions and recommendations. They're pretty easy to read too, especially when you're in the file. I know Mr Hijink. He reads fast. He can do it, too. He'll be able to take that dust and information soon. I will take it into account as well, because the votes are not until next Tuesday. Then Mr Hijink will also have ample time to look into the report. I also understand the need for the debate on this subject, but we have done so in part today. I find it rather difficult when we come to this debate simply with the statement that we still have to study it, when we have actually been working on the subject for two years and we are talking about the different facets of the recommendations and conclusions that I have made in each of us, often enough in the past. So I think we can make a quick assessment of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u383	I would like to join Mr Hijink. Where we call for care on a number of occasions, I believe that we should also set an example as a Chamber. At least I haven't gone through those 340 pages yet. I don't think anyone did that here. I would therefore also ask Mr Kuzu to hold this motion so that we can vote on it at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u384	The President shall agree with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u385	The President can agree to this, but this Member of Parliament says: the Members of Parliament who now state that they need time to read this report have until next Tuesday. I'm not gonna hold the motion. I'm gonna put her in a mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u386	You have that right. But there is another debate about it. We're probably gonna get another reaction. It's in the treatment, like we do, very early. You have the full right to file that motion. You're just filing for her. We're gonna vote on it. As chairman, I wanted to make that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u388	Thank you. Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and his officials for answering the questions. I've got two more answers that I owe you, but they'll probably come in second term. I understand very well what the Minister said about the personal budget holders, but I am not at all reassured yet, because these people are very vulnerable and also leave their caregivers longer in quarantine. I would have liked something arranged for that, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that caregivers working for people using a personalised budget (pgb) must comply with stricter quarantine measures due to the vulnerability of their clients and therefore be unable to work more often;]] [[whereas those caregivers would lose income;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with Per Recht to examine whether the measure for the payment of care not provided can be extended for a further six months, with retroactive effect from 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1793]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u390	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u391	Thank you. Then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u392	Thank you. I had one more question for the Minister. Can people who do not want a second vaccine from Pfizer, for example because of serious side effects of the first vaccine, be eligible for vaccination with Novavax? Those questions reach me, too. I thought I'd have two minutes, and then I'd ask that question. I like to hear it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the covid crisis it became clear that the sport sector was not classified as an essential sector;]] [[Whereas during the covid crisis many people have been suffering from psychological complaints and depression, partly through sitting at home and unable to do anything;]] [[Whereas sports contribute to good health, both physically and mentally;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to define sport as essential in the roadmaps for future crises;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that, in the event of a future health crisis, the sport sector is classified as an essential sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Corona Access Card is still in the so-called toolbox of measures that the Cabinet can take;]] [[Whereas the usefulness of the corona admission certificate to combat a pandemic has not been demonstrated;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Corona Access Card has been divisive;]] [[requests the cabinet to remove the corona access card from the toolbox,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1794]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1795]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u393	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u394	A question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u395	I am surprised by Mrs Van der Plas' first motion. A few weeks ago, we adopted a motion here from CDA, D66 and VVD with exactly the same question. I do not see the need for this motion right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u396	I am always so happy with Mrs Van den Berg's questions. Mr Kuzu and I tabled that motion a long time ago, two weeks before that, and then the CDA voted against it. Then came the CDA, Mrs van den Berg, with the same motion that we had tabled. However, this motion is something else, because it states that it is necessary to examine the conditions under which the sport sector can be regarded as an essential sector. That's a slightly different motion. We, Mr Kuzu, part of this Chamber and I, want the sport sector to be regarded as a standard essential sector. We also do not see why that should not be possible. So thank you for this question, because now I've been able to correct it right. So we had already tabled that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u397	The final motion, on the deletion of the corona pass, is also in my hand here. I'd have filed that, too, but I always come in the back of the line. I like to submit it; that saves me another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u398	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u399	Then the name Van Haga is added. Would you stand still for a moment? They're in line to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u400	I have an enlightening question. I would like to ask Mrs van der Plas what she means by the corona ticket. That is an umbrella term for different modalities, to use an expensive word. The second is: what does she mean by "get out of the toolbox."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u401	By the corona pass, I mean that horrible thing with the green check mark. I can't say otherwise. That thing, it's gotta go. I've been saying that all year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u402	The second question, about the toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u403	The second question. It is now being held back to see how it can be used in one way or another. You never know. But the ctb just has to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u404	I heard Mrs van der Plas make a plea earlier today about people who are toasted because they want to go on vacation. Other countries also use the corona pass. If we completely abolish it in the Netherlands, that means that people can no longer go on holiday. That is why I am asking more specifically about the wording of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u405	That's a good question. Our starting point is that it just has to go away. That's what we want most. Just get away with it. We have no control over other countries. I can't order Germany to enter a corona pass or not. But that's our starting point. Then, if it stays, we want the people who need to use it to be taken care of as well as possible. Mrs Westerveld knows a little bit about what I mean. We are also opposed to testing for access, but we have signed with motions that made it possible to get multiple test locations in the Netherlands. So I can vote against testing for access, but I can also put forward a motion that, if it is so, and probably is, because there is always a majority here for 'I can at least ensure that the people who need to use it are taken care of as best as possible. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u406	Clear. Thank you. Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u407	That may seem clear, but if we in the Netherlands were to say that no one has the corona ticket, it would of course have the consequence that people would no longer be allowed to go on holiday, for example. That's why I'm asking you a little more precisely. I can imagine questions about living, at least with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u408	But I'm not gonna vote for a corona pass because Germany and Greece have it. That's what I really think is putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u409	Thank you. Mrs Simons from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u410	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Minister not only to send the documents requested by a majority of Parliament, but also to do so in the shortest possible time. That's just to be safe. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet intends to relax significantly and to abolish, inter alia, the obligation to cover the mouth;]] [[noting that masks are an effective measure against the spread of the virus and are therefore essential to protect people from high-risk groups in, for example, public indoor spaces;]] [[considers that public indoor space should be safe and accessible to all;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the duty of masking in public indoor areas for the time being,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport had an influence on OMT's scientific advice;]] [[Whereas, as a result, expressions on, among other things, masking advice in care for the elderly were modified and the scientific consensus was ignored, with potentially fatal consequences;]] [[noting that the potential severity of the COVID-19 virus within RIVM has also become known and estimated to be "catastrophic";]] [[Whereas such a classification means that it was known that the COVID-19 virus could lead to more than 10,000 deaths, but this information has been withheld while communicated to the outside world that there was no cause for concern;]] [[Considers that, on the basis of political guidance and scientific consensus, high risks have been taken, the independence of scientific institutes has been damaged and the credibility of the Ministry and thus the full Corona approach has been affected;]] [[expresses confidence in the government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1796]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1797]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u411	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove COVID-19 as a compulsory disease in Group A,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to remove the entire obligation to protect the face,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to explicate possible collateral damage in the disclosure to the Court of Justice in future corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to consider possible collateral damage in the decision-making process in future corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to immediately repeal the Temporary Law on Covid-19 measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the Cabinet has actively influenced OMT opinions;]] [[Whereas the Ministry was aware that the constitutional violations went too far and that this was actively masked;]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1798]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1799]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1800]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1801]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Smolders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1802]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1803]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u412	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u413	That's another vote of no confidence. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber this evening is Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u414	Mr. Chairman. It is important to repeat Mr Hijink's questions. We want the complete picture of what happened to the OMT; also to learn from it. I think it would be wise to have a separate debate on this and not to regard it as a done deal. I am very curious about the medium term, which is very important. So I await with great interest what the government is going to do. We've dropped everything twice already. After that, we had to take very strict measures. The fact that the government is abandoning the measures also means that it has an obligation to remain well prepared. Mr. Chairman. I am not satisfied with the lifting of the digital guidance committee. I'm asking you to reconsider that. In January, the committee would issue unsolicited opinions. We still have a European corona access card and a lot of data to be deleted. So I think it is very good to get advice on this. I agree with Mr Westerveld's speech on scientific integrity. I have a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to the OVV, there was no rolling resistance in the case of advice and that this was part of tunnel vision;]] [[noting that the Chamber often asks the government to conduct independent investigations into its own actions, but that there are regularly reasonable doubts about the independence of both the mandate and the persons;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the WRR to draw up standards and protocols for independence from consultancy and independence from research, and to give them the freedom to involve the Academy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Westerveld, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Agema, Mr Van Haga, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1804]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u415	This is a repeat request. I have already asked this once together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. This ultimately did not lead to the requested investigation, because we did not do it so firmly with the appeal to the law. But I do hope that the House will support this motion because we can all benefit from the independent advice of the WRR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u416	Thank you. Mr Omtzigt was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. We've received 20 motions. I'm gonna suspend until 8:35 and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u417	We'll go through it short and pointy, and we'll be outside in ten minutes. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u418	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have some remaining questions. Mrs Tielen asked for an overview of the measures. I'll be happy to forward that to the next stand-of-business letter. Mrs Van den Berg asked me to return the next letter to the Brabant investigation. I will do so with all my heart. Mr Hijink referred to the Court's request to send correspondence with the OMT, in addition to the draft opinions. I will send it to you with all my heart's desire. That's what I do with the OMT opinions. We can do that in March. Mrs Van der Plas asked if the primary vaccination is finished by Novavax due to an allergic reaction. This is possible in individual cases, but this is for evaluation and after a conversation between the person to be vaccinated and the treating physician. So the answer is yes, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u419	To clarify: if, for example, those people go to their own GP and they give that to... the doctor probably knows the medical history of those people... then it can be requested through the GP? The minister's talking about the attending doctor, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u420	It's the doctor's treatment. Novavax is not widely available, but if the question is whether individual people are vaccinated in connection with an allergic reaction after the first vaccination with Novavax, the answer is yes. However, the GP may need to consult with the GGD to see where the vaccine is available. I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u421	I'll figure that out myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u422	If that doesn't work, I'll help you figure it out. Then there was a question from Forum about the offer to provide images of recordings at the GGD. Let me put this first. As the GDPR points out, they adhere to the guidelines that exist. Among other things, Mr Hijink has also explained what the law says about this. Let me also say that the IGJ is monitoring this and that neither the IGD nor the IGJ currently have any indication that this is not happening adequately. That gives me the opportunity to thank the staff of the GGD for their unbridled commitment. They've been standing by for a long time to test and vaccinate. At the same time, they are subject to suspicion and violence on a regular basis. They've been there for a long time, and that deserves our respect and our appreciation. Your offer for the raw images is appreciated; the GGD will gladly receive them. I understand they've asked for that before. If you share them with me, I'll share them with the G.D.D. I'm assuming that's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u423	Just so you know, the GGD didn't ask for that at all. Let's get this misunderstanding out of the way. A very fundamental point is the following. You referred to Mr Hijink. Mr Hijink says that what he sees in the reportage is actually a very good way of working; it is entirely in line with the law. However, the GGD says: what we see in the reportage would indeed not be as the GGD should work; if it were true, it would be contrary to the law, but the images would not be correct. Those images have been manipulated, they say. Which side does the Minister agree with? If the images in the reportage give a true picture of reality, does the minister think it's all right? Is he satisfied, or would he say, no, if that is true, must something change?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u424	I have no judgment at all now. I think it's good that the images are shared, that the GGD can see them and respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u425	I think we're done with this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u426	Well, didn't the minister see the footage and respond to it? I'm just asking how the Minister assesses the response of the GD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u427	As indicated, I think it's good that the GGD gets the raw images. Then they can look at it and we can hear the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u428	Fine. We're going to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u429	But I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u430	No, we're doing interrupts in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u431	There were a number of remaining questions. Mrs Westerveld asked if I could support the initiative legislative proposal on the right to work at home in the Council of Ministers. I can say that the Minister of SZW will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u432	That wasn't exactly my question. I understand that the SZW Minister is talking about this, but in the corona crisis, of course, we learned how relevant it can be to work at home. My question to this Minister was: can you please make a commitment to this in the Council of Ministers? That might help with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u433	Mrs Westerveld asks me what I'm going to do on the Council of Ministers. The cabinet speaks with one mouth. So I am not going to say what I am going to say or not to say in the Council of Ministers. Mrs Den Haan asked if I could give a guarantee that the strategy adopted by the Netherlands will in the short term ensure adequate preventive means for vulnerable patients, and whether I think it is worth the gamble to stick to this strategy. The answer is yes, for now. This strategy is, in my opinion, the best one for now. I cannot give a firm guarantee as to when these resources will be available. However, I am separately engaged in negotiations with AstraZeneca about a purchase of their treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u434	Mrs. Den Haan, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u435	I know the Minister has a heart for this group and I am very happy about that. I understand that option has been taken for less than 10,000 of these medicines, while this group concerns about 20,000 people. The Minister also knows that these people have been in isolation for two years now with the relaxations being extra anxious and need to stay even more indoors. I would therefore like to see some progress made, because they have been waiting for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u436	I'd like to take that plea with me. It's a negotiation. As has been said, this is now going through the European route and separate over another product. Mrs van der Plas asked if I could comment on the explanatory statement in general public terms concerning the A disease. Of course I'd like to do that. Already in January 2020, before the first patient with covid was detected in the Netherlands but when there was already clarity through images from abroad, the OMT recommended that an infection with this virus be reported as category A. In order to indicate to the general public what this means: infectious diseases are mandatory if at least one of a number of criteria is met: that they originate from an open source against which an environment is unable or difficult to protect itself; if such a report is absolutely necessary for prevention and control and cannot do so in any other way; in the case of derivative risks to a larger population; or if the infectious disease may have international consequences. There are then a number of categories. I'm not going to see them all. Group A is the most pressing category. This means that legal measures may be possible. For example, you have to think of forced admission, isolation, home isolation, quarantine and a ban on professional activity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u437	You really need to sit in front, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u438	If there have been new elections, I think I'll get another place in this room. I was aware of this, but thank you for explaining this to the Minister. This has yet to be dealt with by the Supreme Court. My question was what is the legal status of all the corona measures of the last two years if the First Chamber has not yet approved this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u439	This does not affect the legal status with regard to COOVID-19. That's still an A disease based on the Wpg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u440	The Wpg is the Public Health Act. Am I to understand that the approval of the Supreme Court is not necessary for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u441	Not for the A status of COVID-19. You can do that under the Wpg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u442	One more supplementary question. Okay, so the First Chamber doesn't have to approve this, but it's being handled and it's being approved. Then I wonder why it goes to the First Chamber at all, if it doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u443	I will answer you separately, but it has a legal status. Mr Omtzig asked about the European Commission and the directive. Firstly, the European regulation stipulates that children under 12 years of age are exempt from a DCC. The Netherlands, as discussed earlier, has argued at EU level that an exception should be made for the age group from 12 to 18 years. You are quite right to outline the problem. There are two routes to prevent that problem. The first is that the European Commission is currently preparing an additional delegated act to achieve an exception for this age group. The other is an EEA opinion. If the EEA gives us an agreement, we'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u444	The supplementary question was that it will be answered in writing whether there was at all a legal basis for the delegated act that was adopted, which required a booster vaccination and reduced the time limit for vaccination. I didn't see that in the original act. In this way we can easily keep the overview of the corona measures. So maybe we can still hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u445	I'd like to do that in writing. Finally, Mr Van der Staaij's question about the coronapas and the vaccination certificate based on the various components. For each one, it's about the chance of transmission of the virus. That's not an exact science. It also depends in time on both the variant, and the infection pressure, and the moment when someone has previously had either a vaccination, a boost or the infection. So each of those components protects, but in time it can vary. That was the basis for the 3G. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u446	We can just pointy through that, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u447	I think so. But then we have to wear the glasses, because in the meantime we come in a smaller font. In the prints my limited vision is not taken into account. The motion in part No. 1782 is Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1786 is Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 1787 is a "spoken" motion and doesn't ask for my response. The motion in part No. 1788 has been dissuaded. The underlying idea is that RIVM already indicates that ventilation, according to the requirements of the Building Decision, significantly reduces the risk of contamination and that it is mainly about the proper use and compliance with the directives. The motion in part No. 1789 has also been dissuaded. The effectiveness of each individual measure cannot be determined exactly. The motion in part No. 1790 has been dissuaded. The independence of the OMT and the RIVM is not under discussion as far as I am concerned. The motion in part No. 1791 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1792 is a "spoken" motion. The motion in part No. 1793 has also been dissuaded. Compensation schemes are being phased out widely. The motion in part No. 1794 has been dissuaded. "Essential" is an unclear status. Sport is very important, but "essential" does not help. The motion in part No. 1795 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1796 has also been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1797 I'm skipping. For the motion in part No. 1798 applies: dissuade. For the motion in part No. 1799 also applies: dissuade. The motion in part No. 1800 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1801 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1802 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1803: No response. The motion in part No. 1804 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u448	It could've been quicker. I think Hugo de Jonge needed more time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u449	I'll do my best next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u450	A little more practice from the week at home and then you'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u451	First of all, compliments on the fact that we finished so quickly. I will not say too much about it, but I have a question about the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 1800 and 1801. In my view, we had reasonable agreement in the debate just now on the fact that this collateral damage had to be taken into account. The motion in part No. 1800 is even weaker. It says "explain the collateral damage." I don't think it's gonna be a problem to do that. If all the judgment comes to that "dissuade," then I really wonder what will happen to the collateral damage in the future. Because then we're not even gonna map it, let alone consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u452	During the crisis, the cabinet has already indicated that both epidemiological and social impacts have been taken into account in the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u453	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u454	That's just not true. I have repeatedly tabled motions on this subject and Hugo de Jonge has always assured me that the collateral damage has never been taken into account. It's just not done. In the new impetus, in the new policy, it would be nice if it would be mapped out and if it would be taken into account. That would be a new line of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u455	As I mentioned earlier, we are definitely taking this with us. I have already pointed out, both in the Corona debates and at the press conference and in a letter to the Chamber, that all these various aspects are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u456	Mrs Westerveld, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u457	The Minister dissuaded my motion by saying that the independence of the OMT is not under discussion, but of course that is not the point of the motion. The motion requires two things. He asks the Ministry and RIVM not to modify the OMT opinions. I think that is very desirable, also in the context of today's reports. The second is a plan to consider whether RIVM should not become an independent administrative body, precisely in order to protect that independence. I would ask the Minister to address these two points in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u458	I think that these two decision-making points come back extensively in our response to the OVV report. Then they can also be the subject of conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u459	Good. Clear. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u460	What would be the reason for the motion in part No. Dissuade 1804? It invites the WRR to establish standards and protocols for independence of advice and research. This is not just about the corona policy, it is simply the reason, but this is a wish that has been in the Chamber for a year or two. We have had many discussions here: about the WODC affair, where there were questions about independence, about the evacuation from Kabul, in many areas. It's about asking the WRR to look at careful standards for research and advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u461	I understandably do not say anything about these other subjects. I can't say much about that either. The OVV report says, specifically with regard to the approach of covid, a number of things about this. I say again that we want to study that quietly and then come up with a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u462	I'm not getting ahead of the O.V.V.'s response. You will not hear from me either that this or this OVV recommendation should be taken over today. I said take a month or two for that. And don't take six months, because something might be needed. But this is about the whole thing. Every time we go to the Chamber, we have a discussion about how we can guarantee it and how we can ensure that we don't get into each other's hair afterwards about whether or not the investigation was independent. Instead of doing that every time, I say go to the WRR and ask for independent advice. I can't imagine what the government might object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u463	I do attach great importance to independent advice. We just got an O.V.V. report. Like you, I still have to read it from A to Z. We still have to discuss it and then it comes back. I think it is an excellent subject to come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u464	There has been a motion for two years, and for two years now the government has been stalling. That was the previous government to simply ask the WRR and the KNAW. Then there's a call, then there's no call, and if you repeat it, it's not there. It is always "this moment is not appropriate," but believe me: there is never a moment suitable, because there is always a reason to wait. You can just ask the WRR, regardless of the discussion that follows from the OVV. And by the way, the OVV research is not the one I quote here as not being independent. That's what I'm gonna say right away. I have used other examples for this. So I still haven't heard any argument from the government as to why this couldn't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u465	Mr President, I stand by my previous answer. I advise you to take this with you after we've had a response to the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u466	Clear. Here's to it. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Minister for his presence and for his comprehensive reply, explanatory statement and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-16-tweedekamer-3.u467	Take care! Twenty motions have been tabled, including two motions of censure. They will be put to the vote tomorrow and that is what we are going to vote on tomorrow. Those are the Simons motion and the Van Haga motion. That's what we're gonna vote on tomorrow. We shall vote on the remaining 18 motions during our regular Tuesday votes. So far. Thank you to the participants. Tomorrow at 3.30 p.m. I open the meeting, but now I close it!
