ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u1	We're gonna listen to the minister. I understand from him that he has a brief introduction to this first performance from field K. So I would suggest that we at least listen to that before we start asking him questions about the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u2	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Madam President. It's so special standing here. I would like to begin by expressing my thanks for all the congratulations and encouragements that have touched me very much. This is true of your warm words for myself, but, frankly, even more so of your warm words for education. It is sometimes said that no one is against education, but who is really for it? Well, I'm tasting here in the Chamber that you all have a warm heart for education. It's also something that connects us. There were also warm words for the MBO and for this proposal. That's great. It will not have escaped your notice that I am a newcomer to politics in The Hague. It is therefore the first time today that I have been allowed to stand here in front of this Chamber. Personally, that is a moment of great honor and great pleasure. It is also the beginning of a new adventure, in which, in addition to that beautiful coalition agreement, with all the ambitious plans for education and research, I really want to be in dialogue with you as a Chamber, because I also feel that you have not only many opinions, but also a lot of good ideas and advice on this, which I can really benefit from. That experience among you deserves to be taught. That is, as you have all said, the beating heart of our society and perhaps the most important investment we are making in the future. I am really looking forward to dialogue and cooperation with all of you. Then there's today's topic. I'm very glad that MBO is next to higher education and science in my portfolio. I also understood that at the beginning of my presidency there was some ambiguity, but let me say again: there was never, as far as I am concerned, any question of not taking care of this sector. I would like to add that it is very important that we really keep an eye on the ongoing learning lines in education. You have all said what an important link the MBO is. That is why I am very much looking forward to having the conversation with my dear colleague Minister Wiersma with this whole continuous learning line. This will certainly develop from his perspective of a lifetime, but also from the perspective of primary education and secondary education are very good talks. I can tell you that I am not only proud that, in my view, I work at the most beautiful ministry here in The Hague, but also with the best team of directors. Let me now turn to the subject of today's debate. As I said, I am glad that we in the Netherlands can be proud of how we organized education. And that applies especially to the MBO. I often hear that people are looking abroad with jealousy at how we are doing in the MBO, with attention to our own craftsmanship and that excellent connection with professional practice. In education, I see it as my mission, and as the mission of everyone who works in education, to finally give young people the opportunity to come to the place where they can be happy, useful and serviceable. I am very much aware that the journey to that place is a different one for everyone. For some, that is a long road, full of barriers. It must be our job, my job, to help students in education to find that way and also to make that way more passable, by removing or lowering barriers and pointing people at their opportunities and helping them find it. I think that this bill is also a very good step in that direction. That all sounds very abstract, but in the coming period you will see me come up with various proposals to give them a hand and a foot. Because this cabinet and society face many major challenges. You will hear my colleagues here talk about climate, about care, about living or about an innovative economy. And for all these challenges, we need people who can help solve them, with smart ideas and skills that are also future-proof. We are training not only for the current labour market, but also for the labour market of the future, which, to a large extent, will be shaped by the students themselves. If we cannot train that labour force for the future, I feel that all the other fine initiatives are simply not getting off the ground. Then we cannot make the Netherlands sustainable, then we cannot speed up the economy and then we cannot guarantee health care for the future. That is why it is so important to strengthen vocational education and training, to strengthen its position in and in connection with society and also its internal organisation. Actually, that's what we're talking about today. This is therefore a general discussion on recognition and appreciation. I feel that our discussion today is a good step towards the recognition and appreciation of MBO as an independent form of education that deserves attention, which we are now giving to it. I am glad that there are many things in our coalition agreement to increase students' chances. There are great ambitions in which I am going to work, also to improve the journey to the labour market. I must say that my predecessor, Minister Van Engelshoven, has already said very nice steps in this direction together with the Chamber. I would like to thank her once again for her period as Minister for this beautiful sector. I'm still three weeks away, but over the past few weeks, I've been able to meet a lot of MBO students, both digitally and physically. I was in Leiden last week, for example, on the first day that lessons were physically possible again. I found it very inspiring to see that among the students, who, by the way, haven't had it easy in the past few years, they were also clear about so many creative ideas about the future of education. That really is a reservoir of ideas and intentions that we need to tap in. I also see how bravely they have been over recent times and that, despite everything, they are looking to the future with enthusiasm. I find that really inspiring. That generation and future generations therefore deserve our constant concern. I'm really gonna do my best to do that. With this inspiration I would like to put my shoulders on the improvement, recognition and appreciation of the MBO, together with the Chamber, but also with the fantastic students, teachers and institutions rich in the Netherlands. Especially to the students, especially the student organization JOB, I say thank you for all your good ideas about this bill, because without you we wouldn't have been here today. Having said that, I would like to move on to today's topic of improving the legal protection of MBO students. Anyone who wants to study deserves a fair chance to do so. That sounds very simple, but how do you shape that? This requires accessible education, not only when it comes to admission to training, but also when it comes to providing support to complete this training. And that's what we're talking about. For this, good legal status and legal protection of the student are essential. You have actually acknowledged all this in your contribution. In addition, we assure the students and institutions that they can also address each other on the responsibilities they have vis-à-vis each other. Often such a conversation between student and institution is sufficient to move forward. However, if that is not the case, unfortunately, that is the case on a regular basis, there must also be an accessible system of legal protection. Mr. Chairman. If it turns out that this legal position is less developed, we should therefore pay attention to it. This is the case for students in the MBO programme that we have established today, unfortunately, compared to students in higher education. With today's bill, if it's all right, we're gonna straighten that position out. We are taking an important step towards realising the ambition of the coalition agreement to promote equal treatment of MBO, HBO and WE students. The need to improve legal status and legal protection is not only a theoretical problem. Unfortunately, we see the consequences in practice. I was shocked to read in the last JOB monitor that one in three MBO students is dissatisfied with the way the school handles complaints. That is an important signal with which we are going to do something today. Also, problems related to admission, suspension and removal, often combined with compliance with or non-compliance with support agreements, have been heavily represented in JOB's complaint report for years. What really comes down to in these complaints is that students do not know where to deal with their problems. For example, it is a complaint from a student who has been removed from his education and who, in his own words, had not received any warning about it, and had no idea how he could challenge such a decision from the school. Another example is that of a student who suffered from anxiety disorder and had made special arrangements with her school about how she could continue to study. Unexpectedly, she was told that her school wanted to remove her. Eventually she filed a complaint with JOB, because she was eagerly looking for a way to object. It is because, among other things, your Chamber saw and wanted to solve these problems in 2017 that this bill is here. At that time, by means of two motions, the Bishop cum suis motion and the Özdil cum suis motion, the House of Representatives called on the government to investigate the functioning of the written educational agreement in the MBO. You've already talked about it. My predecessor asked the Netherlands Centre for Education Law to conduct research. That is the basis of this bill. Today, with your Chamber, I would like to take the essential step to make the ambition for a better legal status of MBO students a reality. As you know, there are three essential elements in this bill. One. Improving the legal status of the MBO student. Two. Improving the legal protection of that same MBO student. The third is the relief of the control pressure for mbo settings. I'm going to sum up the questions a little bit in these three themes. On the subject of improving legal protection, I would also like to comment on a point which you have all mentioned, namely the transfer of the judicial role of the College of Appeal for Higher Education to the Administrative Court of the Council of State. For the sake of completeness, this now extends to higher education, but the legislative proposal also brings together the MBO concerns at the Council of State. As you have all said, the legal status of MBO students is influenced by the statutory educational agreement, a document in which institution and student establish mutual rights and obligations. But the research has shown that this is not working out very well in practice. It's actually a very asymmetrical situation. A student with a relatively young age faces an institution that concludes thousands of contracts of this kind. A comparison has already been made with what we like when we download a computer program or an app somewhere. We'll sign at the cross. That does not work in practice and needs to be corrected. In addition, it has already been noted by you that it is also an administrative burden for the institution. Maybe I'd like to say a little more about that. This bill therefore provides for the abolition of the educational agreement and the introduction of other measures which, we believe, will significantly improve the legal status of the MBO student. The rights of students around suspension and removal are improved. It also creates clarity, specifically about the rights of students with disabilities. Let me now respond to your questions, which were all to the point and also show that we are going into the details of this bill. That's good. Maybe I should start with a question from Mrs Buchallichh about the long duration of its implementation. Of course, we all feel that it could have been better sooner than later. It was scheduled in 2017 and now I'm here in front of you, in January 2022. So I share your view that a lot of time has passed since this issue was put on the agenda. I will briefly state the reasons for this. Following the debate in mid-2017 to which member Bouchallichh refers, at the end of 2017 it was commissioned to investigate the legal status and legal protection. As I said, in August 2018, the Netherlands Centre for Education Law produced that comprehensive research report. That was sent to your Chamber at the beginning of 2019 with the announcement of this proposal. That year, 2019, was needed to translate the recommendations from the comprehensive report into a draft legislative proposal. At the end of 2019, this was submitted to the Judicial Council for an opinion. During the period up to November 2020, the well-known steps had to be followed: the processing of opinions, the implementation test, and the examination by the Council of Ministers and the Council of State, the Advisory Section of which was employed. It was also necessary to agree with the Administrative Court of the Council of State on the transfer of the CBHO. The memo on the report was submitted in May 2021. In the end, your Chamber, undoubtedly due to the hustle and bustle of the coronapandemic, did not find the room in the agenda until today to deal with the bill. I would say that it has taken a long time, but it has gone as quickly as possible given the many procedures. I shall come back to exactly what that means for the introduction. Madam President, I would like to turn to a question from Mr Beertema concerning the maximum period of four weeks laid down in the legislative proposal in which an objection to an expulsion decision is to be dealt with. The main rule in the bill is that the competent authority has ten weeks to decide on an objection. For objections against a decision on the removal of a student, an exception has been made for the sake of the need for that legal certainty, which you also mentioned. Those objections are thus already subject to a significant reduction in the standard deadline. Disposal is an exceptional measure with great impact, also for the student. It is therefore all the more important that this review that is taking place in the objection procedure be carried out with care. This also means that the Dispute Advisory Committee should be given sufficient opportunity to take note of all the opinions and reports relating to that removal. The student himself also needs time. It should be given the opportunity to hear all relevant documents prior to the decision on the objection and should also be given the opportunity to be heard. The planning of such a hearing also requires time. In consultation with the field we thus arrived at this time of four weeks. It is our understanding that it can be within this maximum time. We are also going to talk a number of times about maximum times. I do have the impression that that's the expiry date. "Maximum" doesn't mean it always happens at that time. This can often be done much faster, and that is also the practice. It's the stick behind the door. Of course, we encourage institutions to deal with this as quickly as possible, but also with caution. We feel that we can exercise this caution with this four-week period both on the part of the institution and on the part of the student. I would like to stick to the questions put by Mr Beertema. He spoke about financial support for student board members and made his point clear. I think it is important that it is now possible for MBO students to apply for a board grant. Firstly, because it promotes equivalence between MBO students and HBO students. That's a theme we can all agree with, I think. This equivalence is also part of our coalition agreement. Secondly, because it is important that MBO students, too, should be able to give some of you an opportunity to echo the words of some of you in order to develop through administrative work and thus represent the interests of young people in national student organisations, which is another group. You will hear me more often about it, how important it is that we can hear that input and that voice of the students. The point is that they can decide for themselves about the training they receive, including the country where they are going to live and the organisations they are going to use. We are all reaping the benefits of this. For example, it is really thanks to the good work JOB does with their monitoring and complaint reports that this bill is here. So the evidence is actually in front of us in the form of this bill. Students contribute in countless ways to the quality of education and society. I really appreciate that. I really want to encourage students to take advantage of this opportunity. During the budget treatment at the end of 2019, my predecessor promised your Chamber to investigate the possibilities for student board grants. That research on how to facilitate MBO board members is still ongoing. I will inform your Chamber about the results of that investigation at a later date. Mr El Yassini said that a lot is being done for students with disabilities, such as that one can object to problems they experience at school, but he also asked what I do for students who want more, so what I do for excel. First of all, it can and it happens. Students and schools are of course free to settle that, but I think that a very important discussion we have to have with each other is what it means to excel. It is important that we do not approach excellence in a one-dimensional way. There are several ways we can do that. What means success is for an MBO student a very different story than for students in the wo. As a society, too, we must promote these forms of excellence. This may include elements of entrepreneurship, teamwork or creative thinking. If we are going to look at the societal challenges that lie ahead, I mentioned a number, which are all about new insights, new technology, skills that aren't there yet, so we also need people to realize that you can excel along that path, that we also need the top performance they deliver in society and that they are absolutely crucial to succeed in exceling our entire society. I feel this is a much bigger theme. In a close sense, we are talking about this today because we are actually doing some kind of recovery operation in the MBO. However, I believe that this should be part of a much broader discussion which underlines the importance of the MBO and its own qualities. Let's really always judge it on its own merits and its own challenges when we have that conversation. I am committed to that; I can promise you that. Madam President. Then I come to a question from Mr Van Baarle from DENK. How will the Minister manage implementation? How does the Minister assess whether MBO institutions can handle implementation, as we are also coming out of a corona crisis? Glad he finds that again; at least, we are still partly in the corona crisis. There is, of course, a great deal of stress in society, but also in education. I'd like to talk to you about that, too. I am very aware that both institutions and students have had an intensive period of time to deal with the pandemic. That is why I am also pleased that, in the debate on the pandemic, education is now being put very high on our list of priorities and that we are no longer discussing whether it is going to be closed or open, but under what conditions it can remain open. It's very good that we see that importance. This also means that when the pandemic is no longer there, we will not be finished with this discussion. I'd like to talk to you about that further. I am also aware that we are introducing a lot of new things with this bill and that it is going to require a great deal of effort from the MBO institutions. They have now been given ample time to do so, because this proposal, thanks, perhaps in your view, to the slow pace of implementation, will enter into force on 1 August 2023. The advantage of this disadvantage may be that the institutions have a somewhat longer period of time to prepare the implementation. A number of steps need to be taken to set up the Dispute Advisory Committee. A number of comments have already been made about sharing the information, about bringing students into these possibilities. I'm really going to talk to those MBO institutions to help them with the implementation support, of course, once that bill has been accepted by the Second and First Chambers; we can't wait for that. Another question from Mrs Bouchallichh. She referred to the National Student Law Office as another form of accessible legal aid. That gets funding from DUO and is only there for ho-students. What's the role of MBO students? That National Student Law Office does indeed provide accessible legal aid. I can very much encourage it. However, it is an external organisation. I can't prescribe that it extends the work to the MBO. However, I think it is a very sympathetic idea and it fits in with our general debate on recognition and appreciation. So I'm definitely gonna talk to them about this. Another element of this proposal, the administrative grant, can also help in this respect. This enables MBO students to become even more active in the legal position of their colleagues. Then I turn to a question by Mr Van Baarle about the student council and the right of assent. His question was why there is no right of assent in the student statute. Isn't it good to give them a different form of participation? How does the Minister deal with participation? I can give a clear answer to this. The student council has a right of assent when it comes to the student status. As we all know, that is included in Article 8a 2.2, third paragraph, part b.I am very pleased to be able to share those details with you. The details matter; we can see that here. It may sound like a small detail, but it regulates important matters. Madam President. I come to the questions of the De Hoop member. Is 2022 going to be a lost year? Can't we bring the introduction forward for a year? No, that's not possible. In the meantime, all parties are preparing for the introduction a year later. My predecessor has already indicated in a letter to you that if the bill were to be dealt with after Christmas, its entry into force would not be possible as of 1 August. That has to do with the timeline. It had to be in the Official Journal by 1 June 2022 at the latest. If you start mathing forward, we're not gonna figure it out. Another important element is the proposed transfer of the College of Appeal for Higher Education to the Council of State, on which I will return in a moment. We can make it happen sooner. The planning now is January 1, 2023. This means that the Council of State can prepare itself for a further six months to secure higher education and MBO matters. So, first, higher education for the first half of the year at the Council of State and then also the MBO cases. To be honest, I think that we can use that time and perhaps also need it for a well-developed and workable implementation of all these ideas. Madam President. Then a question from Mr Bishop: what will the bill improve on the write-out with retroactive effect? It has already been mentioned that there are sometimes abuses there. How will the role of the institutions be taken into account in this situation? This legislative proposal ensures that decisions leading to retrospection must always be well motivated and that the possibility of objection by the student should always be open. In this way, the bill improves, in my view, the legal position of the student. Moreover, in most cases, even after long absence, a write-off is not carried out with retroactive effect. Only in a few cases can such a write-off occur with retroactive effect, for example if a registration has been made in violation of the law, if the student does not meet the criteria or, also important, if the student himself asks. In these cases, write-off should be carried out retroactively. On this particular subject, my predecessor informed your Chamber last autumn. In order to prevent schools from waiting too long to deregister, I believe that Mr Bishop raised a point which I have a number of measures. These are contained in existing regulations, but also in this law. There's a legal deadline to pass on write-offs. It is also very important that, as I believe is regulated by this law, students have the right to receive a written notice of cancellation. So they are also offered clarity. But I am also going to make a strong appeal to the MBO Council and therefore to the institutions to inform their students in a timely and clear manner. Then there is another question from Mrs Bouchallichh, President. As she rightly says, the bill is a cultural change. The Council of State notes that insufficient consideration has been given to what is needed to internalise these instruments. How do students know what they can use, and how are we going to shape this transition? It is true, of course, that when a new law was introduced, culture did not just change. That's a lot to ask. It is important that schools, students and student councils are well informed. With the information and support of MBO schools, which in turn will inform the students, I have already started, in cooperation with the MBO Council. That's an ongoing dialogue. There have been presentations, a hand-out has been prepared, and I can assure you that there will be more of these information meetings in the run-up to the entry into force and the hand-out will be updated with many questions. I will also remain in close contact with the MBO Council to deal directly with any school support questions. So I guess we got the theory straightened out. Then there is the practice, and I feel clearly the responsibility to ensure that it is in line with the theory. I will, however, in cooperation with JOB I am counting on those fantastic student organisations we have to inform the students directly about their new rights and obligations. In particular, student councils will play an important role in this. So that is a very valid point. I would like to turn to a second question from Mr Beertema, his question on time limits. He noted a discrepancy between secondary education and MBO as regards the maximum time limit for a student to be suspended slash student. In the vo that is one week and in the mbo it is up to two weeks. Why not a week? After all, it is so important that students receive education. Then why two weeks? Firstly, we have to note that this bill provides for a maximum suspension period. It's been unlimited so far. That is a huge step forward. Why two weeks? Frankly, before the Internet consultation our idea was to go for one week, as in secondary education, but in that consultation MBO institutions strongly advocated a longer term. The Council of State also recommended a longer maximum period than one week, because the solution of the underlying problems, which is something else in the MBO, requires more time to do it carefully. So, in the form of a compromise, we finally reached this maximum of two weeks. But again, maxima are not averages. This is a deadline. In general, I think it will be much faster. But this is, I think, another thing where we have just listened carefully to all our advice. We went from one week to two weeks. Then there is another question about the legal situation, this time by Mr Bishop. He asks a question about reporting to parents and students about the progress of students and about the frequency, which is not actually laid down in this bill. I have already explained in my explanatory statement that the lack of information sharing between institution and parents can lead to a reduction in parental involvement and that this is undesirable for several reasons. I did not choose to include this frequency of the reporting obligation in the law, because I actually like to leave it to the schools themselves what the right frequency is. At the moment we have not received any signals that parents are dissatisfied with the frequency with which they are informed. The reason for this part of the legislative proposal is a need for institutions to have a legal basis for sharing that study progress information with parents. There are, of course, elements of privacy to the sharing of personal data. So I do not see any reason at the moment to record that frequency by law. Of course, we're definitely going to encourage schools to have that contact frequently. Finally, maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u4	Before you go any further, Mr Bishop has a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u5	For the history of law, it may be good if the Minister gives an indication. I can well imagine the Minister's thinking, but also from the point of view of education, I ask him what he thinks is a good way to ensure that the parent involvement in that study progress is optimal. Of course, all this has to be done within the legal framework; I understand that, too. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u6	That's a good question. The short answer is that I do not have very strong ideas about this. I would say that should be enough, but I can imagine that this is different in different situations. I assume this is at least once a year, but I'm gonna leave this open. I would also like to talk to both students, parents and MBO institutions to hear from them what a good frequency is. Maybe we can do something about sharing that good behavior with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you. That is what Mr Bishop is doing right now. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u8	Before I close this heading on legal status, I would like to ask a question from Mr Beertema. Are the cognitive skills of students sufficiently developed and is there sufficient parental involvement at levels 1 and 2 in the event of a possible suspension? It is true, of course, and it is good that you remind me of that, that the differences between MBO students are large. When MBO students enter levels 2 to 4 they have sufficient pre-training requirements and have the right cognitive skills in my eyes. In addition, there are specific provisions in schools to eliminate any backlogs. In my view, schools are doing their best and working to achieve the improvement of that parent involvement. In any case, this law regulates the good involvement of parents of students under 18 years of age, in terms of the obligation to inform parents. I think it's something else that needs to be properly monitored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u9	A question from Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u10	Did I understand correctly that the heading of legal status was now closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u12	Then I have another question about that heading, which I have also asked in my speech. This has to do with the extra appointments students with a chronic illness or disability can make with their school. This bill means that if there can be an actual appeal, it will no longer go through the civil courts, but through the Council of State. Now we see in the explanatory statement that if, for example, agreements between students with a disability or chronic illness and the institution are not complied with, such a student can only go to the complaints committee and then to the civil court. Why did the Minister choose to arrange for students in general to be able to go to the Council of State, with low registry fees, but to send students with a disability or chronic illness to civil courts, with registry fees above €300?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you for this question. I'm a little uncomfortable with the logistics in this Chamber. I didn't see this question before me. Thank you for reminding me. For your information: the agreements on additional support are indeed made between two parties, institution and student, and would therefore be considered as a private contract. In the case of disputes relating to such agreements, the civil courts are in principle required. However, the bill provides that if a student has a need for support, registration may only take place if support arrangements have been made. If an institution does allow a student with a need for support, but without having made any support arrangements, then I assume that the student can raise this issue and appeal against the admission decision to the administrative judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u14	I don't know if that's the answer for Mr El Yassini?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u15	Yes, it is an answer, but it is not an answer to my question as to what the consideration was to leave it at the end of the day with the civil court, with the high costs of the Registry, which we have already discussed, above €300, in relation to the costs of the Registry of the Council of State. So, what's the deal? Precisely the agreements made between institution and students with disabilities are also the result of the Education and Vocational Education Act. It could also be said that these additional agreements are actually part of the law and that you will not end up with a civil court if those agreements are not complied with, but that you will go to the Administrative Court of the Council of State, as with the rest of the cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u16	In addition, as far as I understand it, it is in the nature of the law that it is not about the precise implementation of these agreements. So we can't follow this road. But it might be good to realize that in most of the disputes about these agreements, it's about suspension and removal. Then the way to the Disputes Advisory Committee is open and finally the way to the Council of State. So for the most part, it will also be able to follow that path.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u17	I see Mr El Yassini nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u18	Okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u19	Please continue with the following section.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. With your agreement, I will then begin with the next issue, the improvement of legal protection. To begin with, good legal protection means that students can object in an accessible way if they consider that a decision of a school has been taken unjustly. Think, for example, of refusal or removal decisions. Contrary to how it is regulated in foundation and higher education, MBO students now have no opportunity to object to the institution's decisions, while ho-students have access to the specialised administrative judge. We have mentioned him before: the College of Appeals for Higher Education. MBO students don't have that right now. So they can go to the civil court. We just talked about it. But that step is big, physical, emotional and also financial. Registry law and similar cases normally involve €338. I have broad support for the idea that MBO students deserve the same accessible legal protection as everyone else in education. That's addressed with this. The final piece of current legal protection in higher education and future legal protection in the MBO is an accessible access to justice. As already mentioned, students in higher education can now go to the College of Occupation for Higher Education. In fact, in some 250 educational matters a year, that college makes a statement. Characteristic of this particular body of law is its low threshold, short lead time and concentrated expertise. At the same time, it should be noted that the CBHO as a small organisation with relatively few things in management is vulnerable. This proposal addresses these points with a transfer of the legal function of the CBHO to the Administrative Court of the Council of State, one of the oldest, most venerable High Colleges in our country. In my view, this will ensure the easy access to justice for both MBO and Ho students. I understand that some Members of your Chamber are concerned about maintaining the CBHO's achievements in such a transfer. In drawing up this proposal, I would say that the extension of existing rights and achievements for students has been a priority. Unfortunately, in particular, it appears that the student organisations have not felt sufficiently involved. I'm sorry. It's a shame to find out. I therefore hope today to convince your Chamber as well as the student organisations that good and workable agreements have been reached with the Council of State in order to preserve these particular features of the CBHO in the context of the incorporation into the Council of State as an organisation. Firstly, the low thresholds remain: the single appeal, the reduced Registry Law and procedural rules, which allow, for example, proceedings to be brought without procedural representation. Agreements have also been made to maintain the current average maturity of the CBHO of 94 days. Finally, the expertise of the Council of State is maintained. It sounds like a large-scale operation, but basically the CBHO is already part of the Council of State, because by a large majority the members of the Board of Appeal are also state council or member of the Council of State. There are regular consultations between the Council of State and my department on the arrangements made. If there are any signs that the practice is more uncomfortable than we think at the moment, then I will certainly not hesitate to discuss it with the Council. I would also like to stress that my ministry, together with the student organisations and institutions, will examine how students are adequately and timely informed about the transfer of the CBHO and the practical consequences it entails. We have time for that. I will come back to a few of the comments that have been made about the CBHO, but perhaps I can answer a few questions about legal protection first. Then I come to a question from Mrs Hagen, who was also asked by GroenLinks: how does the Minister look at the Ombudsman? I think that the role of Ombudsman will partly overlap with the independent complaints committee that a school should have anyway. At the same time, such an ombudsman may be able to carry out tasks that complement what the complaints committee and the trusted person are doing. In scientific education, after a pilot and evaluation, the collective bargaining parties decided to set up a university ombud function. That sounds like a good idea, but I feel that it would now be too rigorous to force MBO institutions at once to place an ombud function next to the Complaints Commission and the establishment of a Disputes Committee........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But I do like to talk to schools and students to see if there is a need in the MBO, how that need could be met and what we can do to disseminate any good ideas. I can assure you that I will inform your room of this before the summer. Mrs Bouchallichh had another question about the non-costed MBO. That doesn't fall under this law. Is it possible to take them and what is my image of the legal protection of the MBO students? Of course, my relationship with the non-costed MBO is limited. This is limited to ensuring the quality of the diplomas issued by these institutions and their recognition. The legal protection of students is outside this scope. That is why the non-costed MBO has not been included in this proposal. But, of course, there is legal protection. For example, institutions must be affiliated to the NRTO and have their own complaint procedure. The NRTO members of non-cost institutions are also affiliated to a dispute committee where students can go. That is the situation at the moment. There were a few more questions about the CBHO. Perhaps I can go into more detail, because I have already said something about this in general. Mr Hagen asked why the lifting of the CBHO was not included in the internet consultation. I believe that this point was also made by the ISO. At the time of the internet consultation, discussions with the Council of State on sustainable embedding had not yet been concluded. So we could not anticipate that. Therefore, that version was based on an extension of the CBHO's competence. However, the explanatory memorandum to the consultation version indicated that the possibility of placing the CBHO's judicial role with the Administrative Court of the Council of State was considered. If there is such a possibility, this should preferably be done by amending this proposal. So it was more about timing. It was an indication and not a fact, because we were still talking to the Council of State. You have all indicated that the process has been very long. We try to do it as carefully as possible, but there are always little hiccups, for which I apologize. This is in line with questions asked by several of you, including by DENK and by the SGP at the mouth of Mr Bisschop. Why didn't I inform student organisations about this from the start? It's obvious, and I recognize it. I have apologized for the fact that student organisations have not felt sufficiently involved in the drafting of this bill. That is, of course, regrettable to establish, but I can say in general that the Ministry is doing everything it can to involve students. In a way, they are the source of this proposal. There has been extensive official contact with one of the student organisations about the questions asked by students. As I said, if it could have happened earlier, I would have liked to have done so. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question that has been asked by almost all. Not all CBHO members participate in the transfer to the Council of State. How will the specific expertise be guaranteed? From a distance you could say: we have a beautiful, specialist college and that goes into a large, anonymous Council of State. In practice, it is quite different. For the most part, they're the same people. I told you, most of the members of the CBHO are state councils or members of the Council of State. In addition to legal expertise, they all often have links with scientific practice and education. Moreover, an important part of the support for the CBHO is now also provided by the clerks employed by the Council of State. In my view, the pooling of existing educational tasks within the Council of State, with the CBHO issues, will improve the building up of legal expertise. That doesn't mean there's no other education issues at the Council of State. This is a larger reservoir of knowledge, which the Council of State can rely on. In my view, there is sufficient capacity at the Council of State. Education is certainly not the biggest burden there. In our discussions with the Council of State, too, this is really seen as a workable way. I think the most important thing is that there is also some kind of institutional guarantee. It's hard to think of a college more respectable than the Council of State. There must also be good support, a good staff. At the moment, it actually amounts to one clerk in the CBHO's service. This makes the organization vulnerable. Now there is also the MBO sector. I think that's good. Then there is a question that I think has been asked by almost everyone: what does the Minister think about including a maximum lead time? I have already said that we agreed on an average period of 94 days with the Council of State. That is, moreover, the CBHO's average term of treatment at the moment. This means, in current practice, that about 40% of cases last longer than three months. Can we get a maximum lead time? For example, a period of 20 weeks was advised. Again, I'm going to make an appointment with the Council of State to set the average treatment period. Of course, it's hard to record an average. How do you do that? That's an interesting theoretical question. I am confident that the Council of State will honour the agreement. We're gonna take a regular look at that. Then the longer term. Soon the question will be asked: is it because of treatment or because of a lack of capacity? I would like to say that a longer term in exceptional situations can also be very pleasant for the student. It's not easy to appeal. A lot of things come to mind. Maybe the student is abroad. There are all kinds of circumstances where you do not want a short term, but a kind of guarantee that the majority of the proposals will be dealt with within a reasonable period of time. So again, the expiry date on one side but just a fresh product on the other side. We think we can do that this way. It is important to confirm that, like the CBHO, the Council of State in general can also deal with these objection procedures as a matter of urgency. That's what the Council of State promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u21	Before you proceed, Mr Van Baarle has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u22	I thank the Minister for his answer on this point. I must honestly say that at least the Minister has taken away a great deal of my concerns about that transition to the Council of State. However, I would ask the Minister whether he would be able to inform us on a regular basis, at least after five years of the law, on how this lead time is developing, so that we, as a Chamber, can check whether it actually remains around that average.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u23	I think that's a very good suggestion. We're at the beginning of a new procedure. This is not only a time to look at the statistics, but also to have a good conversation and to adjust them if necessary. So that has our attention. I can promise that we will keep a close eye on that and report on it sooner than after those five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u25	I shall now turn to another question from Mr Bishop. He asks me to respond to the jurists' argument that statements by the college of appeal show that all decisions resulting from the education laws are indeed public decisions which can only be ordered by the college. We've talked about that before. He already mentioned the position of Professor Van Schoonhoven. He believes that it is clearly unsatisfactory on that point. The legislative proposal provides for institutions and students to make support arrangements where necessary. As I said before, these agreements constitute a private law agreement. As I said in response to Mr El Yassini's question, this does not regulate the content of these agreements, nor does the competent authority have to take decisions on the implementation of those agreements. It may therefore be assumed that decisions implementing research agreements in our legal reading cannot be regarded as decisions on the basis of the Web, thus opening up objections. This is in contrast to the decisions on e.g. expulsion, which do have a clear basis in the law. I cannot rule out the possibility that in this case the Administrative Court would consider that the Administrative Court of the Council of State would disagree. In the end, the administrative judge decides whether a decision is to be taken. I'm gonna go check on the amendments. Yes, I see that you have tabled an amendment to this effect. So I would like to come back to that amendment, which I think we can take a step in the right direction. Then, Madam President, under this heading of legal protection, I have another question from Mr El Yassini. He has asked me about decisions of the competent authority when a student feels that he is being damaged because of his limitation. He can only go to the College of Human Rights. Why there? According to this bill, students can always access the accessible facility in the first instance. That's one of the establishments we're going to set up in every school. If the student's problem is about a complaint, then the facility forwards it to the complaints committee. He's already here. If the problem is about a dispute, it goes to the Disputes Committee. We're gonna start it. And then we've already talked about the appeal procedure. After completing the complaint procedure, a student can always go to the civil court or the Human Rights College as a supplement. So there is always an accessible legal protection for these students, but it remains that the student has the opportunity to go to those two. That is the legal situation created by this bill. Then a question of a slightly different nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u26	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yeah, specifically about this point. The Minister was indeed talking about students in general. The question I asked has to do with students with disabilities or chronic illness. That's really an important group for us as VVD to help. That's why we're bringing it up again. If the competent authority makes a decision, for example on the layout of the building, then the student with a limitation can indeed file a complaint. But the explanatory statement states that a student can only go to the Human Rights College afterwards to file a complaint if his own interest as a student with a disability is harmed by a decision of the competent authority. The explanatory statement refers to the College of Human Rights, but that has no enforceability and therefore no perseverance. They can only come up with an opinion that the competent authority can ignore and then do nothing with it. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you for this question. I think I want to keep it up and come back to it in the context of Mr Bishop's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u29	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u30	Then there is a question from Mr Van Baarle about how students are being pointed out at that accessible facility, that new construction, and how the Ministry and I are guarding this. We have already said that the student council has the right to approve the establishment of this accessible facility. I think this way we can also ensure that students themselves think that this accessible facility can be found for them. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. But I think it is important that practice also realizes that; that has been established a number of times. That is why I will also give this point of information to schools and student councils. I feel responsible not only to pass this bill through the Chamber, but also to help implement it. I think that education for schools and students on this subject is very important. What exactly is that? How accessible is this? I think it is important to stress that there is a right of assent for the student council. I'm sure I'm gonna take the student organizations into this, too. A question that is somewhat in line with this is Mrs Bouchallichh's question: who appoints the members of the Dispute Advisory Committee and is it comparable to higher education? Well, both in higher education and in MBO it is up to the board of the institution to set up such a dispute advisory committee. The most important feature is, of course, that the members of this committee are functionally independent. The Dispute Advisory Committee shall consist of a chairman and at least two members. The chairman is also asked that it does not operate under the responsibility of the administrative body. In the establishment there are therefore no differences between the advisory committees in the HBO and the MBO. Mrs Bouchallichh also asked questions about the composition. She asked about the desirability of having a student as a member of the committee by default. If I am right, she has also tabled an amendment on this and I would therefore like to come back specifically to the issue of the student member in my appreciation of that amendment. Mr President, before I get to the amendments, I would like to finish by commenting on something that we have not actually received any questions about. However, I would like to highlight the fact that there is a third point why we should be enthusiastic about this bill, which is a relief from the regulatory burden of the MBO institutions. Because the legal status of the MBO student is guaranteed by this bill in other ways than with the education agreement, which we have all found something about, I think that this is a clear progress. Apart from the fact that the education agreement is asymmetric and does not work, it is accompanied by many mandatory acts. They cost the institutions a lot of time. We talked about "signing at the cross," but this also requires a lot from the institution itself. Thus, the abolition of the education agreement means that institutions no longer have to work with paper documents that must be physically signed and sent. Frankly, there is also a great deal of red tape about archiving it. This is an important point that we must also take with us in our appreciation. I don't see any questions about that. Finally, I come to a final question from Mr Beertema, in the category of others. He talked about freedom of speech. It is perhaps important to highlight once again that freedom of expression is a fundamental right for everyone and therefore also for teachers. Working as a teacher demands that you handle this professionally and also give the students the space to express their opinions. At the moment, there are no signs to me that the MBO, the boards there, restrict students' freedom of expression or that students are taking advantage of this. So I do not think that an investigation into this issue is appropriate at the moment. Madam President. That brings me to the examination of the amendments, starting with Mrs Bouchallichh's amendment to item No. 9 about a student member... Let's see, is this...? Yes, the amendment to item No. Nine is still there. This amendment concerns a student member to sit on the Disputes Advisory Committee. I have said before that it is so arranged that the members of this committee are functionally independent. Functionally independent means that the competent authority may not instruct members on the way in which they carry out their duties. I believe that this guarantees the quality of the legal protection of students and an uninhibited look at the institution's actions. I think it is very important to give the student perspective. I reject the amendment at the moment, because I do not think it is appropriate to give it to the Dispute Advisory Committee as an explicit mandate. But I can promise that I'd like to talk to the institutions to ensure that student perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u31	So in our language, you're not telling the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u32	I don't recommend the amendment. Am I saying it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thanks to the Minister. I do have a question. You are making the argument that I also feel very strongly about this amendment, namely the student perspective. I do not wish to question that others are independent or say that it is not happening wisely and adequately. But students know exactly what their living environment looks like. They might be able to move a little better into the situation and fill out the blind spots. The Minister does, therefore, give an argument as to why this might be useful. The argument not to do it is because it would not be appropriate. I would like to hear more about the content. Why wouldn't this be a good idea? 'Cause I kind of miss that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u34	My main point about which I am now dissuading the amendment is that we are in the process of setting up this whole organisation. We don't have these dispute advisory committees yet. These have to be arranged. It certainly belongs, I think, to the possibilities. I think it's too early to make it. I myself think it is a better way to start talking to the institutions to ensure the perspective of the students. In my view, this can be done very well by involving former students. The spirit of this idea is very welcome to me, but I would like to advise against an amendment that demands it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u35	Then we have three other amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u36	I come now to Mr Van Baarle's amendment to item No. 10, on understandable language in the student statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u37	That is now the amendment to item No. 13, if I may say so, co-signed by Mr El Yassini. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yeah, exactly. As you said in your explanatory statement, the phrase 'language accessible to all and understandable' has absolute meaning. What exactly can we imagine? I don't have to quote Einstein on every occasion, but he said, "Make it as simple as possible, but not easier." With this amendment, I think it is a sympathetic amendment. I think it is important that the rights and duties described in the student status are understandable for MBO students and are clearly written down and accessible. With this change, i.e. the small deletion of these two words, it is feasible for institutions, I think. In this modified form, I would very much like to leave it to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u39	Very good. Then we have two more, one from the member Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u40	In part No. 11, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u41	Yeah, 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u42	About promoting the knowledge of the student status. The amendment proposes that institutions should be given the task of promoting knowledge of the student status. I think it is in everyone's interest that students are well aware of their rights and obligations. That is absolutely part of the spirit of this bill. That is why I do not find it difficult for institutions to be given a slightly larger mandate. Of course, students also continue to bear their own responsibilities to know these rights and obligations. But for these reasons, this amendment, too, is given the predicate judgment of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u43	That's number 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u44	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr Bishop's amendment to which you have already referred. Mr. Bishop is gone, but we will listen very carefully to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u46	In short, if I say it correctly, let me say this: if I may interpret this amendment in such a way that it is not necessary to make agreements with all students, but only with those students with a need for support, then I can leave it to the House to decide. That is an interpretation of this amendment. If I have to interpret it more broadly, I regret to have to advise against this amendment. That's my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u47	That is difficult, because Mr Bishop himself is not present. I can give your interpretation to Mr Bishop, and then you should, I think, agree with him. I'm just watching how we do this. Perhaps it would be the purest thing to send this to Mr Bishop in writing, so that we can have all of this formally by Tuesday, in view of the votes that will take place. So if you can also send your appreciation to the Chamber in writing, we can do so. Then Mr Bishop can say yes or no and then we have settled it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr President, I fully agree with that. I'd be delighted to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u49	Did that bring you to the end of your reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u50	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u51	That's good. Then I'll suspend for a few minutes and then we'll continue with the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u52	We will continue with the second term. I give the floor to Mr El Yassini, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for not only the answers to the questions but also his enthusiasm. I'm really looking forward to working together. Let's make it beautiful! There are a number of points I am concerned about, but as a VVD we do support the legislative proposal. I have heard the Minister say that as far as the review after five years laid down in the law is concerned, he wants to take the Chamber with him on the lead times. I am not going to table a motion, but I am asking for the Minister's commitment to broaden it and to inform the Chamber two years after entry into force by means of an interim report or an interim evaluation, keeping an eye on how things are going, what can be done better and where problems need to be solved. This has to do, for example, with the point I mentioned about students with disabilities or chronic illness. When they make separate agreements with a competent authority on support, it is important to know how this goes forward to prevent us from finding out that a lot of agreements are not being met and that students with disabilities or chronic illness do not seek justice. The same applies to the competent authority which makes adjustments or makes decisions which may harm the interest of a student with a disability or chronic illness. It is important that this not only reaches the College of Human Rights, but that, after that advice from the College of Human Rights, the Ministry examines the role of a school if necessary. I also ask the Minister to look at the excellent students in the mid-term evaluation. It was very nice that the Minister said that further discussions will take place on what this means at MBO level. Does that excellence only have to do with the fact that you can learn very well from a book or also with the fact that you are an excellent student engaged in entrepreneurship? I would like to ask the Minister to include this in it, so that two years after the entry into force of this law, we can come together as Chamber and Minister to talk about it and fix things where they do not go well or fail. I am very pleased that we have had this first debate. Let's all get to work to improve the MBO. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u54	Thank you. Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. May I begin by thanking the Minister for his first-term response, his baptism of fire? For a political scientist, he's done a hell of a job. It was very nice, so my compliments! Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to the Minister that I was struck by the fact that he apologized in advance towards student organisations because they are not sufficiently involved in the drafting of this bill. It is not very common in this house that rulers, but also politicians, apologize, so I would also like to express a word of appreciation for that. Mr. Chairman. We welcome the commitment made by the Minister to send an interim report to the Chamber on implementation for the review after five years. DENK agrees with Mr El Yassini's point. It would be nice if we could indeed address the wider concerns that have been shared out of this Chamber on various points. The Minister responded to our concerns about the transition from the CBHO to the Council of State. So we support that. We are pleased that this Minister has provided our amendments with a positive opinion. All things considered, I am going to advise my group at the group meeting to vote in favour of this proposal. For the rest of the proceedings of this sitting, the undersigned must apologize for the committee debate which is about to begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u56	Also important. Thank you to Mr Van Baarle. Mrs. Hagen, D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister has promised that he will monitor the implementation of the objection procedure and that he will discuss the role of Ombudsman with JOB. D66, of course, has full confidence that the Minister will monitor the drafting of his first law, taking the concerns of the committee into account. It is also very nice that he takes us, as promised to Mr Van Baarle, into the drafting of this law. D66 is still considering an amendment to the maximum lead time. We're gonna take a look at that. Thank you, also for the warm welcome as a committee, and compliments to the Minister for his open listening attitude. He literally looked at all the committee members here. That's really worth a lot. As indicated, we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you. Mrs. Bouchallichh, GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions and for the commitments, including on the Ombudsman. I have also heard several times that the Minister will continue to talk to the students. I am very pleased with that, because in the end they also know a lot about this practice. The Minister also said that the theory is settled and we are going to work on the practice. To help with that, I have one motion to file. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Student Law Office and the Student Line contribute to the accessibility of legal assistance for students in HBO or at university in the case of educational complaints;]] [[noting that there is currently no similar form of accessible legal assistance for MBO students;]] [[Whereas the step to the Council of State to settle disputes for students may sometimes feel like a large threshold;]] [[Whereas the National Student Law Office and the Student Line currently have to deal with an inadequate budget and remuneration for their work;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the National Student Law Office, the Student Line and JOB to explore the possibility of setting up similar support for MBO students and the resources needed for adequate provision for both students in MBO, HBO and university,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bouchallichh, Mr Westerveld, Mr De Hoop and Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35625-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u61	Thank you. I call Mr Bertema, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for explaining and answering the questions. He refers to the Constitution when it comes to freedom of expression, which would already be guaranteed there. Of course it is. I do not know which official advised the representative of the MBO Council here, but I strongly advise the Minister not to be used too much as a driver's errand boy. This case is a symbol of the authoritarian culture in which the colleges of government, supported by a battery of lawyers, paid out of the lumpsum, compete against a lonely individual teacher who dares to be critical of renewal policy that is dragged by it against all rationality. I'd say don't be fooled, Minister. You rule, not the officials or the directors. I'm not asking for a new law. I don't ask much. I ask for a simple commitment to investigate, on the basis of Mrs Van Manen's case, how these things can be avoided in the future, because they are incredibly damaging to confidence in these institutions. It is an extremely unjust matter, in which a dedicated teacher presents realistic criticism in a very discreet way of an educational renewal that necessarily makes pupils victims. Think again about the title "When do we get lessons again?'; I think you got the book, too. That is a desperate cry from students who are very eager to learn and who are almost not allowed to do so anymore. That's what I wanted to say. What made this case go so wrong? Because there's been long toes. There are egos offended. If the collective agreement does not work out here, as the judge has observed, I ask the Minister to be there for these teachers, who are important for the internal criticism that must be made in the schools. There is no internal criticism. It's gone. It's being intimidated away. You'll have to take that with you. Therefore, a simple commitment to look at a solution and examine where there might be a solution would be the least of it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you to Mr Beertema. Mr Bishop is absent. Then I'm still looking at... Then we have reached the end of the second term of office. I'll suspend for a few moments. The Minister then responds in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u64	I'll give the Minister the floor in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u65	Thank you, Madam President, and thank the members of the Chamber for their comments. I would like to start with a question that comes from both Mr El Yassini and Mr Van Baarle, namely whether we can look at implementation in five years' time rather than the statutory evaluation. A number of important points were also mentioned, such as how we deal with students with disabilities or chronic illness, which is quite a substantial part of the students; you are actually afraid of this and what role the ministry has in all of this. It is also very nice that you also appoint the excellent students. Once again, that is something that may not be directly enshrined in this law, but I hope that this is a start to the discussion about it, because I see very nice possibilities. So I'd like to say that in two years' time. Then it's summer 2025. I don't know if I'm still here! We'll see. But the Ministry does exist, and if it's right, that law exists. Then we'll definitely take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u66	In two years, it'll be summer 2024? Right? Two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u67	It would be introduced in 2023, because we have one year's delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u68	And then two years after the introduction. All right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr Van Baarle is no longer here, but I would like to thank him for his warm words about the student organisations and the important role they play in this. I hear that, too, echoing in this room. That is a much bigger point than just here in the discussion of this bill, but you will hear me speak about it more often. It's a very important thing for me. Thank you to Mrs Hagen for her comments. You're still considering the maximum lead time at the Council of State. If you're going to file something, I'd like to have a conversation with you and I'd be happy to hear what term you're thinking. Then Mrs. Bouchallichh. Thank you for your motion, with which you once again explicitly designate the importance of the National Student Law Office and the self-employedness and the way in which they plead but also help students. I think it's a very nice idea. I'd like to have a conversation, too. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this motion is Chamber of Appeal. Finally, I can assure Mr Beertema that in my new position I am not only in conversation with the directors of organizations, but also with the students, with the teachers and with everyone involved in education. That's always been my attitude. I'm gonna learn a lot from them. So at least I'm getting lessons again. In fact, I have had that from all of you in the Chamber today. Thank you for what I said at the beginning, the warmth that you all are getting from teaching. It is the most connecting element in our society. We've all been educated, subjected. We'll have it in the future. We have our children and our grandchildren. It's a wonderful theme to be working on. I hope you will be able to see me often here in this Chamber and address you with the same warmth on this wonderful subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u71	I think that the Minister's answer is very economical, I must say. This is a dedicated teacher who has written a beautiful booklet on how the learning lines methodology undermines the whole education, undermines all cognition, undermines all development and upliftment. She wrote a book about that where she doesn't even mention the school herself. Those drivers feel so kicked on their toes, let me say "toes" for a moment that they are starting a whole business, with those lawyers they pay out of the lump sum, who are in permanent service of the rocks, against a lonely teacher. I would at least expect the Minister to give an ethical opinion on such a moloch from a board that crushes a teacher there, who now has a de facto ban on working because no school will accept her anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u72	Okay. Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u73	That's a business that lives in the MBO world. I would like the Minister to give a very small undertaking that he will take a look at it or say something about it. That's not too much to ask, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u74	I can promise here that I will do everything in my power to ensure that all the voices in education are heard. I already named them: the students, the teachers, the directors and everyone involved. Besides, when we talk about the MBO, there are a lot of other parties. In fact, I'm going to listen to it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u75	In the country this is understood by critical teachers as: okay, so I have to rely on the Constitution and a bit of a vague understanding of the Minister, so I will keep my mouth shut from now on. That is what has been achieved here. I find that extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u76	Short response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u77	I think I say this in my years as a scientist, too, that we all get better when we have an environment where we have a critical constructive dialogue. Schools, institutions such as MBOs, colleges and universities are a very important place for this. That is, by the way, the great value they have in our society. You can trust me to do everything in my power to ensure that these schools are in the future a place where dialogues of this kind are going to take place that will make us all better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u78	I would like to thank the Minister for his second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-27-tweedekamer-7.u79	I have two comments to make. An amendment has been tabled by Mr Bishop. That is what the Minister is going to do in writing, but it will take some time. Since there is a legal aspect to this, it cannot be done before Tuesday, so I would ask you whether the votes on this law, the amendments and the motions tabled can be moved for a week to 8 February. Then the appreciation of Mr Bishop's amendment is in and we can vote on the law. I think everyone can live with that, so that's how we're gonna do it. I thank the Minister for his first visit to the Chamber. That won't be the last time, I guess. Thank you, and thank you to my colleagues.
