ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the state of the rule of law. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk, who will speak on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Council of Europe's report on the Dutch rule of law offers a useful external view. The impression is that the Netherlands is generally a well-functioning state with strong democratic institutions and guarantees of the rule of law. We should be grateful to note that. At the same time, not everything has been said. Several spokesmen have put their finger on this too. The report rightly reveals a number of problems, including the legislative process, for example when it comes to realistic expectations of the results. I see a government that has an ideal image of the citizen. This ideal citizen is proactive, independent, rational, entrepreneurial, linguistic, able to evaluate the financial and legal consequences of his own actions and to solve problems as much as possible himself. With such a citizen, there can be savings in ggz and youth care, access to public services can be digital as much as possible, and the use of algorithms within public systems is not a problem either, because with such an ideal image, this does not easily lead to problems. However, the ideal image is too rosy. Parliament must also be keen on this. Legislation on the donor law or the bill for the abolition of the period of reflection on abortion shall be based on the self-employed, autonomous citizen who has and has every opportunity to make a rational choice that suits his or her situation. Unfortunately, reality is often different. In the recommendations of the report I noticed that the emphasis was placed on the feasibility of legislation and that it should be based on fair, realistic assessments. Legislation should not be in line with fiction. Mr. Chairman. There also seems to be an ideal image of society: a multi-faceted society in which everyone has the freedom to have and to express their opinion. But do we still dare to talk fundamentally about norms and values, about conflicting conceptions of life? Can there also be room for a critical opinion, based on the Bible, even if it deviates from what the majority thinks? It is no longer an exception in Western countries that citizens and even politicians are brought to justice because they quote from the Bible. Regular reports are made because a biblical view on sexuality is found offensive. Think of the case against the Finnish Member of Parliament Räsänen, Reverend Latzel from Bremen, Reverend Kort in our own country. How does the Minister assess these examples? Is this not a worrying trend with regard to both freedom of religion and freedom of expression? Is the Minister also in favour of these fundamental rights in a European context?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u3	That's asking for another question, isn't it? With the Bible in hand you can say the most terrible things. So where is the limit for the fraction of the SGP? First of all, it has to be decided by the judge, but how does the SGP itself view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u4	This is why I have deliberately mentioned these matters.... is that there are opinions here that were commonplace even in the Netherlands until relatively recently, for example that marriage is a love relationship between one man and one woman. That's why you're being dragged into court now, at least you can. And I find that a very worrying development. Of course you can incite hatred, violence, you name it. I'll come back to that later. That's all out of order. That is not exactly what I am talking about here. My question is: can you express the views based on the Bible, for example on marriage, freely or do we see a rather worrying trend in some Western countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u5	Is it not the content of the message and not the question whether it is recorded in the Bible or not? Again, the Bible allows you to defend a lot of content, good or bad. It's about the message itself, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u6	Yeah, sure. But for that we have the freedom of religion, right? I assume I can find Mr Recourt there on my side. You may base your opinion on the Bible, as the SGP does and fortunately many more Christians. This gives rise to certain views, for example on marriage, sexuality and so on. Freedom of religion has been mentioned as the mother of all fundamental rights. My question is: do we still recognize that freedom with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u7	Finally, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u8	I am on Mr Van Dijk's side when he says that freedom of religion is a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u10	But I would like to say that the fundamental right is also limited. I suppose we also agree that you can take advantage or go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u11	Sure, you can take advantage of any fundamental right. That is why I specifically said... Maybe it is unnecessary to say, but you have never been able to catch the SGP inciting violence or undermining authority or whatever. Of course, these are limits that we respect wholeheartedly. But that is quite different from what I am saying here, namely that you must be able to express a certain view of marriage and sexuality in freedom. Mr. Chairman. Then social media. Of course, inciting hatred, violence, discrimination and insult does not belong there. The problem is that this criterion is sometimes widely understood. Citizens who ask intrusive questions about the consequences of gender policy on women's rights are silenced. Even politicians are blocked, for example because they put their finger on Muslim fundamentalism. It can happen that an ideological filter will determine which sounds are still to be heard. That's not an attractive perspective. How does the Minister see this? Is the cabinet also paying attention to its own words? As in a progress letter on the implementation of the Beijing Platform for Action, which talks about "achievements under pressure from conservative forces." Or more recently a letter of 13 May last from the cabinet on the added value of feminist foreign policy for the Netherlands, in which it states, among other things, that "increasing conservatism increasingly puts pressure on the position of women and girls worldwide." You can chew on those sentences for a while. What do you untie by calling people with a certain conviction "forces"? Doesn't it quickly get the sound of evil forces, of a tumor?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u12	My question is: does the SGP oppose the existence of conservative forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u13	Would you like to repeat that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u14	Do you believe that there are no conservative forces in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u15	Of course, the question is what exactly do you mean by "conservative." There are all kinds of forces: progressive forces and more conservative forces. So what? Is it then a task of the government to fight conservative forces? Should a cabinet policy by definition be progressive? I'll come back to that later. But I cannot deny that there are conservative forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u16	So the use of conservative forces as such, so as terminology, you don't have to equalize evil forces? In fact, you are rejecting your own argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u17	No, you won't do justice to my words. It is precisely in this context that I notice that the cabinet apparently refers to 'conservative forces' as something that needs to be combated. The Minister is concerned about these powers. This gives a very clear message to the concept of "conservative forces." I wonder if that's a government job. Does a government have to be progressive by definition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u18	Mrs. Karimi, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u19	Mr Van Dijk mentioned an action platform, a programme. That agreement has been agreed internationally and is part of international law. Mr. Van Dijk, do you expect the government to go for the implementation of international law? If that is under pressure, by whoever it is, in this case, by conservative forces, then we can expect the government to stand up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u20	If agreements have been made, then the government must, of course, pursue them. But it is about the way in which there is talk here about conservative forces. In the context it is therefore about the forces that question, for example, a further extension of abortion policy or gay marriage. I think it's special when this is put away like this. My question is: is it a government task to counter conservative forces? Why does the state always have to be progressive? My question is: should conservatism be combated from a state point of view? The specific question that arises from this is: is it legitimate, according to the government, to criticise abortion legislation in principle, for example, within the rule of law? Or are the achievements in this area now seen as part of the rule of law? Would it not be wiser to fight for the maintenance of the rule of law instead of fighting for the so-called conservatism that wants to comply fully with the framework of the rule of law? Mr. Chairman. With some concern, the SGP looks at how the different state powers develop in relation to each other. We see, meant or unintentionally, that the judge is more or less placed on the seat of politics. This is due to the increasing number of successful court cases based on the general interest, book 3 Article 305a of the Civil Code. I mention the climate case by Urgenda, the case on air quality by Milieudefensie and the case on the use of algorithms by the Dutch Legal Committee and Privacy First. Environmental organisations appear to be more than on average active. It now seems positive that these organisations stand up for the public interest. However, the question is how representative these organisations are, while the impact of these cases is particularly high. Think, for example, of the impact on citizens' energy bills or on farmers' business interests. Does the Minister see the risk of undermining the primacy of politics when the judge is increasingly deciding how to consider complex cases of this kind? Are the legal possibilities for civil proceedings not overexcited? Mr. Chairman. Can the democratic rule of law exist without foundational morality? In a way, my colleague Nicolaï also raised that question. In other words, the democratic rule of law is the vehicle in which we move, but what is the sustainable fuel? National core values are mandatory in the integration process. These core values are now reflected in citizenship education. Furthermore, we need a general provision in our Constitution on safeguarding fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. Apparently, there is a realization that a shared moral foundation must be built to ensure tolerance and pluralism. But what is tolerance when criticism of government policy........................................................................................................................................... What is tolerance if, for an open conversation about conflicting views about gender, sexuality or abortion, space seems to be getting smaller and smaller? There are gaps in our society. Gorges that stop worldviews and beliefs from getting into conversation. It is not just the political visions that collide, but differently constructed images of reality and truth. One no longer agrees on the basic reality and the truth of certain facts. Then any meaningful conversation is out of the question. This lack of consensus on what is true, reasonable and good can ultimately undermine the foundations of our society. A certain commonality is needed to form a society. The influence of postmodernism and the grandiose farewell of the great stories that have borne our social order and structure for centuries can lead to the dissolution of society in various clans, with their own constructed reality and truth. In the western world, this commonality has been found in the Christian tradition for many centuries, with a lot of falling and getting up. Speaking of the state of the rule of law, it remains a big question where we find this commonality today. I wonder where the Minister sees the answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u22	Mr. Chairman. A debate on the state of the rule of law is challenging, not least because it is a broad subject. The VVD Group has chosen to conduct this debate on two main lines, by the way, without implying that the other subjects would not be important. The first main line will be the functioning of the three state powers that together constitute the rule of law: the legislative power, the executive power and the judiciary. The second main line will be to tackle crime and undermining crime. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first main line, and I'll start with the executive. During the last two years, at the request of the House of Representatives, the Bosman Committee prepared the report Klem between desk and policy, which examined the causes of the problems in the implementation of government policy and possible solutions to these problems. The report discusses the functioning of public institutions and the legal protection of citizens. Citizens experience insufficient support and implementation organisations are under pressure and are heavily burdened. The report shows that although the vast majority of implementation by the implementing organisations is fortunately going well, unfortunately there are also issues that are not going well. Of course, my thoughts mainly go to Groningen and to the supplementing affair. In the supplemental affair, it went horribly wrong. The victims of this affair have encountered enormous problems in many areas, which have still not been resolved. The report draws seven conclusions. I'll take some of them by the head. First of all, the feasibility of legislation and regulation is often not adequately assessed. This test needs to be better. At the same time, the House of Representatives, departments and executive bodies often fail to implement feasible policies with a view to the human dimension. Implementing organisations and citizens run into too complex laws and regulations. Sometimes there is a lack of coherence in the rules. And it is often a challenge in the workplace to understand, apply and explain in an understandable way to the people who need to make use of them or who are dependent on them. Furthermore, it is sometimes impossible for professionals in the workplace to use the human dimension, because the legal frameworks and the implementation frameworks do not allow for customization and deviation from a strict pattern. The report also shows that political control is sometimes lacking. Implementation organisations are expected, on the one hand, to help citizens, but, on the other hand, they are expected to take strict action against fraudsters. And it's stuck. Clear direction from the political or cabinet is lacking. Here lies a task for the Lower House, and of course also for the Upper Chamber. I'll get back to you on that. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group calls for a reflection of ministers on how they intend to improve the direction. How is it ensured that implementation professionals are given sufficient space for customisation, which will not include equal cases that are treated unequally? Are the performance professionals also sufficiently equipped for such a task? In addition, the report shows that the Lower House, the Department and implementing organisations do not or do not evaluate in time or policies, which often have very profound consequences for citizens, have the intended effect. The VVD Group realises that the First Chamber also has a role to play in improving legislation, by asking for evaluations where necessary and also paying attention to how these evaluations should be carried out in order to better monitor implementation. What are the Ministers' views on the introduction of a so-called introduction test, which will allow complex legislation to be considered, for example, after one or two years, how the law really works in practice? Another recommendation which the VVD wishes to discuss is that insufficient consideration is being given to citizens' capacity to act. The legislator must not lose sight of the fact that, where more can be expected of some citizens, others are more likely to cross borders. It should be avoided that certain groups of citizens are structurally lagging behind, or even completely excluded, because of this capacity to act, combined with excessively complicated legislation and regulation. In this context, the VVD Group points out that the increased digitisation of many processes, for example with regard to social security, has led to efficiency, but that this digitization is also complicated for a lot of people, which makes it easier for citizens to receive signals from citizens and may not be able to talk to the government at all. Implementation organisations may be asked to carry out a performance test to determine whether legislation is understandable and enforceable for citizens. The VVD Group of the First Chamber sees the possibility for the First Chamber, if necessary, to verify, in new more complex legislation, whether that test has been carried out correctly and whether the Second Chamber has taken into account the comments of the implementing organisations when the legislation was drawn up. The expertise of the implementation professionals should also be used. This knowledge is currently underutilized. When improving legislation and regulation, we must pay attention to this: better communication and better cooperation with implementing organisations in the drafting of legislation and regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u23	Mrs de Blécourt, I fully agree with what you said last, namely that we must also pay attention. But we're right here at the bottom of the stairs. It's coming down from the top and we're standing right here. Is this also an appeal from you to all the groups in the House of Representatives to look more closely at the content and also more specifically at the implementation and not just at the political desirability?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u24	Yeah, sure. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u25	That's short and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u26	You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u27	Policy and implementation need to be brought closer together by policy makers working together with implementation organisations to design new legislation. In addition, the public authorities must engage in dialogue with the citizens. The government must be literally and figuratively accessible to the citizens. Mr. Chairman. The three pillars of the trias politicians, the legislature, the executive and the judiciary, must work together to strengthen the rule of law and ensure, in particular, that the human dimension is not forgotten in the future. All three state powers have dropped in that connection. The same goes for this house. That is what we have realised and acknowledged with each other. Fortunately, every pillar has had the ability to look in the mirror or has indicated that it is still going to do so, because only then can you see where it could have gone wrong and only then can you determine with each other how that can be prevented in the future. The powers have taken a first step to better inform each other, without, of course, compromising the own responsibility of each power, and not losing sight of the separation of powers. The Supreme Court, the Council of State and the Court of Justice include in their annual reports cases which may be taken into account by the First and Second Chambers in the legislative process. Both the First and the Second Chamber have agreed with the Hoge Raad to engage in regular dialogue to inform each other. This contributes to learning ability and contributes to good legislation. The First Chamber doesn't hesitate to do its own investigation. That's important. As a co-legislator, we need to check legislation for legality, feasibility and enforcement, and we have the task of controlling the government. We will have to do that even more clearly. In this context, the First Chamber issued on 21 December 2021 the report of the Working Group on self-evaluation in connection with the supplementing case, following the report Unprecedented injustice. The Working Group evaluated the treatment of the Supplementary Legislation by the Upper Chamber in the years 2003 to 2019. In addition, it has been examined to what extent the First Chamber has received and arrested signals of abuses. The Working Party of the Upper Chamber has asked whether there are lessons to be learned from this investigation. This has led to some preliminary reflections on the recommendations of the working group. It is up to the Court to start an exchange of views on this matter. Today is a good start. In summary, the report shows that concerns about parental capacity were not regularly picked up. Also, problems in the Tax Administration were not examined in depth enough. It was striking that commitments were quickly lost in sight. Although more evaluations have been carried out and commitments to directors have been obtained, insufficient requests have been made. It would be a good thing to obtain much more information from those affected by the proposed legislative changes in implementing organisations, interest groups and citizens. Mr. Chairman. The rule of law is never finished. The state powers, in conjunction with each other, must ensure that the rule of law is protected. We need to learn lessons from the past and continue to strive for enforceable and effective laws and regulations that allow for tailor-made solutions and allow implementation professionals to treat unequal cases unequally. Mr. Chairman. The second main line that the VVD Group will be discussing today is another fundamental part of our rule of law: security. If you compare our rule of law with those in countries like Poland or Hungary, despite all the problems, we should also be a little proud of our rule of law. That sense of pride and urgency became clear once again when Russia invaded Ukraine. We're in place 28 of the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index. However, we must also recognise that the Netherlands has fallen 22 places on the list of freedom of the press. Despite the fact that the Netherlands has a high priority for freedom of the press, the aggression against journalists in our country is increasing. Dutch broadcasters have been forced to remove logos from their cars as a result of persistent threats. These developments are unacceptable and must be stopped. A threat to freedom of the press is a direct threat to our rule of law. I ask the Minister what she is going to do to ensure freedom of the press, to enable journalists to write down the facts and to ensure that they can do their job freely. Two years ago, on behalf of the VVD, in the debate on the state of the rule of law, I mentioned the murder of lawyer Derk Wiersum. Our rule of law was violated. Over the last two years, our democratic rule of law has been further undermined. Journalist Peter R. de Vries was murdered and politicians and journalists were and are threatened. Security, and thus our democratic rule of law, is under pressure in many areas. I refer to the importance of cybersecurity, but also to the importance of a socially safe working environment and last but not least the fight against undermining crime. It is worrying that undermining crime occurs in more and more places in the Netherlands. It has different forms in different areas, but the general trend is that undermining is becoming more widespread, from major cities to rural areas and border regions. The whole of the Netherlands is, to all our regret, playing an important role in the international cocaine trade with the criminal summit dealing with drugs and money laundering, despite the unbridled use of the relevant public authorities. One of the consequences of the trafficking of hard drugs is that many young people are recruited at an early age, neighbourhoods are disrupted and gun violence, threats and attacks are commonplace. The police must intervene, but the police are overloaded. The same applies to justice and the judiciary. This plays a major role not only in the big cities, but also in other parts of the Netherlands. The coalition agreement provides for a structural allocation of EUR 1 billion to strengthen security, for various purposes including countering undermining, strengthening the police organisation, preventive approach, intelligence services and the entire judicial chain. The VVD Group asks the Minister how it is ensured that this money is spent as efficiently as possible in order to improve drug prevention in the short term. Mr. Chairman. Others have said it today: the rule of law belongs to all of us. The VVD Group believes that making citizens resilient and informing can play an important role in combating undermining crime. That is why the VVD Group welcomes the law on citizenship assignment in schools, which was adopted not so long ago, where young children are already taught how important our rule of law is. The Minister has shown the urgency of this. In her letter of 26 April last to the House of Representatives, she outlined a broad plan of action. Of course, the whole chain is important in that plan. The VVD Group has understood that the judiciary is being extended, although the President of the Council for Justice, Mr Naves, honestly admitted that fighting against the beer-cake is now that the corona disadvantages have just been eliminated and undermining cases remain on the shelf. We also need to expand the state's attorney's office. Within three to four years, the intention is to add 250 prosecutors. The VVD Group asks the Minister to reflect on the feasibility of the intentions and, in so far as it would not be feasible, what is feasible in the Minister's view. In its letter of 26 April on the fight against organised crime, the Minister stated that there was a need for smart cooperation with all stakeholders, including new and innovative initiatives and partnerships. The VVD Group would like to hear from the Minister what initiatives and collaborations are being thought of. In doing so, the Minister notes that the ability to share data within the safeguards of privacy is crucial. The VVD Group agrees with this and wishes to emphasise the importance of privacy in this context. At the same time, however, the VVD Group wonders whether the privacy rules in the Netherlands may sometimes hinder an adequate approach to crime, for example in the exchange of data between the different services. Where's it pinching? How can it be better? What's it gonna take? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Finally, an important conclusion from the Schneiders report. This report shows that there is no socially safe working environment within the police. This environment leads, among other things, to sick messages, which makes adding extra FTEs even more difficult. Can the Minister indicate whether, with the measures it has recently taken, it intends to bring about the cultural change which, according to the VVD, is so necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u28	I just hung on to privacy for a while. These are questions to the Minister, but I am curious about the position of the VVD itself. On the one hand, the VVD considers privacy important and on the other hand, the approach to organised crime. I can also share the observation that this can bite each other. But what does the VVD choose? How does that relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u29	That is a very difficult and therefore very good question. The VVD Group believes that it might be possible that privacy in some areas should give way to tackling the undermining crime. We will have to make new legislation for this; so I cannot answer that very simply, and we need to debate this with each other. I hope I have answered Mr Recourt's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u30	That is what we are going to see in the legislation that still needs to be made. Now we have legislation coming this way in a while that does not look at this undermining crime, but rather at the fight against fraud. It's about sharing government data. That's kind of privacy-sensitive. So what's the trade-off?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u31	We are going to have that debate. I do not think I will be the spokesperson by then, but the spokesperson will discuss this with Mr Recourt. I can't answer that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u32	Mrs De Blécourt mentioned undermining. I have also mentioned in my story about undermining the rule of law. Here's what I'd like to know. How does the VVD view it that it appears that we have hundreds of people on the Zuidas in Amsterdam who are inventing constructions for thieves' money in the world, so that that money can be well housed? That's all still legal, but isn't that undermining the rule of law? There's been eight trillion dollars parked by the super rich in tax havens, and there's just been an investigation from Oxfam, and we're such a tax haven. How does the VVD view that, when we talk about a rule of law, where justice must prevail, and about undermining? Isn't this a bit of undermining, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u33	That too is a good question. Frankly, I would like to put that question to the Minister first. I should also talk much more deeply with the group about what our position is on this. So I can't answer that now. If we all don't like those rules, we'll have to make new laws about them. The First Chamber doesn't make those laws. There will have to be new legislation in the House of Representatives, which we will then examine on the three elements to be examined. I don't have an answer for you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u34	If I am right, under the leadership of a VVD Prime Minister, something has come about that we regard as a tax haven. Can I draw the conclusion from Mrs De Blécourt that the self-reflection we have been talking about is now moving forward in the sense that even the VVD must recognize that this is in fact an undermining of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u35	I have been told by Mr Nicolaï, and I will refrain from doing so. I've just given you an answer as to how I see it. As far as I am concerned, that answer must be sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u36	Following on from Mr Nicolaï's question. We are debating the state of the rule of law. You probably talked about that in the group. In this country, your party has been the largest for a very long time and is also in the executive. What is your assessment of the state of the rule of law in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u37	I think I mentioned that at the beginning of my contribution. I think we should be a little proud of our rule of law, if you compare it with Poland, Hungary and many other countries. Unfortunately, a lot of things go wrong too. That is what we are discussing today in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u38	You can always compare with the worst and say: we're doing a little better, so I'm proud of it. But in the last ten years many examples have emerged in this country of people who have suffered from bad legislation, poor implementation and sometimes lack of legal protection. Then you must also have a judgment that goes beyond: we are proud of what we have, because we are better than Poland and Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u39	I believe that words are now being put in my mouth again. In my contribution, for example, I mentioned Groningen but also the supplementing affair. I have indeed said that it is terrible, that the suffering is very great, that we certainly should not have swept it under the carpet and that it should never have happened. It is not, therefore, that I am a bit cheerful here how fantastic our rule of law is. What I have also said is that we must all work together to maintain the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u40	I hear Mrs De Blécourt mention countries where it would be less good than in the Netherlands. We are more of improving and modernising things. According to the VVD, which countries are doing significantly better than the Netherlands? Let's take a look at that. Let us not compare ourselves with countries that are doing worse, but with countries that are doing better and see why they are doing better. What is the VVD's opinion on this? Which countries do you have in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u41	The Netherlands ranks 28 of the World Justice Project Rule of Law Index. I still think that's not very bad. You can say that there are countries that do better. I think there are countries that are doing better on some points. There are other countries that are doing better in other areas. But I haven't compared our country to all our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u42	Then I will give you a tip: it is the Scandinavian countries that score better in all respects, especially Denmark, Sweden and Norway. They score significantly better on all the points you mention because they have institutions that apparently function better there. There is a law of public administration that will make all apps and e-mails public within a few weeks, without any black-painted situations that we are used to here from your party. So why don't you focus on the Scandinavian countries? Why don't you go and see what they're doing, instead of comparing the Netherlands with Poland, Russia and such countries? Yeah, that's how I can do it; it can always be worse. I miss the ambition at the VVD; let me leave it at that. What happened to that ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u43	I find it interesting that the Scandinavian countries are mentioned by Mr Otten. This includes Finland and Sweden. And that's where the House of Representatives and the First Chamber looked at themselves. There they said: no, we do not want a constitutional court, but we want a committee in the Lower House and the Upper House to review the Constitution. That is why my question to Mr Otten again: why did he not just make his contribution with that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u44	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u45	Well, for example, the Senate has been abolished in Sweden, so I can also do something about cherrypicking. But I think that, in general terms, many experts agree that these are the best performing countries in the field of the rule of law. So I am referring to Scandinavian countries such as Sweden, Denmark, but perhaps also Switzerland. My group has the impression that things are doing better in structural terms than in the Netherlands at the moment. And it's getting worse here, too. What do you think are the causes of the worsening situation here? I mentioned some of them. How do you see it, I ask Mrs De Blécourt through the President?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u46	I have also considered this in my contribution. It is true that things have not gone well in the implementation process. Also in the First Chamber here we have our work... Mr Otten also belongs to the Upper House. In the First Chamber, too, we have not tested matters properly enough. We need to do better in the future. That's my vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u47	I saw Mrs De Blécourt just on the list looking at where the Netherlands is ranked in the rule of law. Now there's also a list of rankings or is it a pecking order; what should you call it? On tax havens. Does Mrs De Blécourt know where the Netherlands is on that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u48	I'm sure Mr. Nicolaï knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u49	I would like to ask Mrs De Blécourt to check where the Netherlands is on that list. In this way, she can also discuss this with her group. Where is the Netherlands in the ranking of tax havens? I think it's somewhere above fifth place. I would therefore like to hear Mrs De Blécourt's second term explaining how that is viewed in her group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u50	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u51	You can continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u52	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u53	You're done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u55	For the record, the Senate has not been abolished in Sweden, but both Chambers have been merged into one large Chamber. So nothing has been abolished. I give the floor to Mr Backer. He will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Speaking on behalf of the D66 Group, I will concentrate on three issues. But the main idea is: be careful of the rule of law. You will not be surprised by that main idea after what has been said about it this morning. So be careful of the rule of law. But I would add: be careful of the democratic rule of law. If anyone has just pointed this out to us, it is the Russian President Putin, who invaded his neighbour, which is now causing a war in Europe that we could not imagine. This is not just about territory and military power, but also about autocracy and democracy, about autocracy against the democratic rule of law. So there really is something at stake for the Netherlands. The three topics that I will be discussing are the financing of the legal chain, the continuity of legal protection and the legislation as a key activity. I'll start with the first topic. In this Chamber, we have, year after year, expressed concerns about the inadequate financing of the legal chain, and in particular of the case law. In almost every state-of-the-right-state debate, we have called for additional funding and pointed out the capacity problems and the rising workload. Interventions on digitalisation have largely failed, while Registrys have already been scaled down. From this Chamber there has also been an attempt to stop the cutting off of the social lawyer and, contrary to that, to carry out precisely the advice of the Van der Meer Committee. To be honest, it has not always been very successful in recent years. Money has been added to the public prosecutor's office and to the investigation, but it is forgotten that for the vast majority of citizens the case-law begins with the canton court. The vast majority of cases are canton courts, family law and legal entities: civil matters. Of course, the reinforcement of the State's Attorney's Office didn't make much sense. There's been a toga protest, we've had appeals from the profession, critical judges... anyway. We've had the Rosenmöller motion. We have not been able to achieve very much. Fortunately, however, the new cabinet has realised that, although it sounds contradictory, it is necessary to use money to save on the rule of law; it is necessary to provide additional funding for the rule of law. In the coalition agreement of the Rutte IV cabinet, a different tone finally sounds. The downward trend we have seen for years in which justice was actually the closing point has been reversed. There was also butter with the fish. This has been mentioned a number of times, by Mr Rombouts and Mrs De Blécourt. There is also additional coverage, occasional, but also structural. Anyway, one swallow doesn't make a summer. So we all want to see it happen. I look very closely at the Minister of Justice. We also have our blessings, because we have been able to achieve them in the right direction. We met the Secretary of State for Asylum in another field, Mr Van der Burg. He is not here now, but we have seen a different tone in the debate there too. That too is a tone for us in which the human dignity and humanitarian aspects of this difficult task have been given a place for him. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the premium affair could not remain unnamed. It has been discussed a number of times and has pointed out to us how alert and how sparing we will have to be on this case law and on the rule of law in all its parts. The President-in-Office of the Council also referred to this in his annual report for the last year. In the Venice Commission's report, it is still interesting when foreign observers look at your country and then we see that not everything is equally beautiful, but that the final conclusion is hopeful. We can work on that. There are concrete points of improvement and, of course, a low point has been noted; we have already talked about this. I think we have been able to set a low point these days, namely that there has been institutional racism in the Tax Administration. Speaking of the rule of law, the State is of course the first to maintain it in its own implementation organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u57	That report by the Venice Commission has now been mentioned a few times, including by other spokesmen. Does Mr Backer agree with me that this is only about a very specific investigation that she has carried out at the time as a result of the premium affair? I also think that she may have jumped to the conclusion that everything worked well, because we see that the recovery operation is still not progressing and is still failing. How can we judge that from a position of outsiders? Because we only have a short recording of that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u58	I understand your question. There are actually three possible answers. One's called "the World Justice Index," which has just been passed a few times. You have a different index than I do. In that we are in position six. That says something about the 135-139 countries, weighted on all kinds of elements: where are we as the rule of law? That's one. Two. We talked to the rapporteur, didn't we? We had a video connection with her and there she explained a few things. It was indeed about a small part. But whatever was going on there, and what I think has happened and discussed here, is that it is also a characteristic of the rule of law that you know how to acknowledge and investigate mistakes? I have not seen in my working life, even in this Chamber, that the Court of Justice of the Council of State has looked so modestly at its own work and said: that was not good. It is also a characteristic that you dare to discuss that improvement. I think that is the addition to the report, which together indicates that we do have an opportunity to improve. That's the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u59	I agree with Mr Backer that we have an improvement option. I also agree that at least we are not so far down that we do not see where it goes wrong. But what I'm worried about is that we're gonna let such an external pronunciation calm us down. Because I see how eager it is to be brought forward every time, when that is a very limited opinion. Does Mr Backer agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u60	Yes, but as long as Mrs. Karimi is a member of this house, sleeping will not be possible. I believe that this issue will remain on the agenda. We also discussed the architecture of legislation in an interrupting debate this morning. Of course, several variants have already been suggested on how to improve the payment system. Except that you have to adjust all kinds of existing systems, you see how complicated it is. That must be a warning to us: if you want to achieve something good, namely income stability or combating income decline, then you should not set it up so that this can happen. Perhaps one more thing: Mr Nicolaï's point is that, of course, there must always be awareness of good and evil. If such legislation were to be put in place and if a number of legislative changes were called for, including the fight against fraud, then the awareness of good and evil should have been: this is not going to end well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u61	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u62	Finally. It is a very important point, indeed, as a result of Mr Nicolaï's very interesting speech. Where do you place the responsibility for moral awareness? Are you going to put it with the co-legislator, or are you going to put it with the individuals who have to take charge of the execution? There is, of course, a very important responsibility for us, as far as moral awareness is concerned. Yes, every individual has that responsibility, but in this case, of course, it was also the political and the co-legislator who failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u63	It is, of course, a big subject that you are addressing. I think that in the organisation of the government there should always be room for that awareness of good and evil, so that, when that awareness is found in the organisation, there is the possibility to bring it up. We have, of course, seen from all these questions from the Committee of Inquiry that there has been no such space. Apart from the pace and architecture of the legislation, it also says something about the organisation of the department. At the end of the day, perhaps it sounds a bit grand, of course, we should all have that moral awareness in the way we do our work. Mr. Chairman. I have been seeing Mr Otten threatening for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u64	So do I, so I'm gonna give him the floor right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u65	As a courtesy, I gave Mrs Karimi the opportunity to finish her interruption. I think we should do this very carefully. I know that Mr Backer has a high priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u66	That's what you're known for, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u67	It's about care. I heard Mr. Backer talking about a humble Council of State. I did not agree with that in the preparatory discussions, but I also mentioned this morning in my own contribution that not I, but the former President of the Supreme Court and prominent state and administrative experts such as your party colleague Michiel Scheltema, of whom I used to have administrative rights, said to Mr Backer, as long ago as the 1980s, that the Department of Justice should leave the Council of State, because that does not meet all the requirements of independent justice. Well, that's a debate that's been held by lawyers, judges, lawyers and so on. I believe that these people in your party are very well represented, I say to Mr Backer. How does Mr Backer see this? It is not the first to say: remove that case-law or at least bring an appeal before ordinary civil courts and ultimately before the Supreme Court. This would make legal protection adequate. How does Mr. Backer look at that? Legal protection is rightly a key issue in Mr Backer's speeches.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u68	Sure. Thank you for your question. It has been debated for a long time. Opinions have been delivered on this subject. Commissions have been looking into it. In the end, it was decided not to change the structure. It is known that the former President of the Supreme Court was in favour of it, but there are all kinds of arguments for and against. But I would like to contradict the suggestion that because the structure is as it is, the Council of State has for too long taken a certain substantive approach. The question of proportionality and proportionality, if you look back now, was raised very late. I would not want to link that to the structure and structure, because within the Council of State it has its own place. But there are differences of opinion; I know that Mr Otten feels differently. I don't see it myself. Then you have to reason in the vein of: if this were so, it could have been prevented, and we should do it because it is actually much better. I can't look over that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u69	There has been that discussion, but that was of course for what happened with the surcharges. The Council of State itself has literally said: we have been stuck in the groove for too long. I think that was stated in the Council of State statement: we have been stuck in the administrative groove for too long. The elderly among us may have had a record player before. If a plate lingers in the groove, this is an explanation for the younger viewers.You have to buy other equipment or at least do something about it. Otherwise you'll hear the same song all the time. After everything that's happened, isn't there a reason to revisit that case? Surely we can conclude from the surcharge affair that the distance from the board is too small? A lot of people have concluded that. The situation has changed once the facts have changed. Is Mr Backer prepared to change his mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u70	I am always willing to revise my opinion if there are convincing arguments or facts, but I think this is a complicated discussion. What's the effect? That is always the question of major institutional changes. In the next five years, everyone will be moving the Council of State, setting up the responsibilities and so on and so on. Maybe there's a net profit in the end, but we don't know that. There are rotating counsellors in the Supreme Court who also participate in the Council of State and vice versa. The exchange's here. I cannot say more than I have done in response to Mr Otten's question, but I do not think I have convinced him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u71	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u72	All right, let's finish. I note that Mr Backer has a more conservative attitude to life than I thought. He's afraid that if you change anything, it'll take five years for it to get back on track. In any case, I would like to open up the possibility of appeal to the civil courts. That is also at the heart of the criticism of all those high-ranking judges and lawyers and highly scholarly experts I mentioned: there is no adequate legal protection because there is no appeal in civil courts. Of course, you can do that without the whole system having to move and so on. How does Mr Backer view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u73	There are a number of factual inaccuracies in this argument, but I am not going to work on that now. I am pleased to see Mr Van Dijk smiling at the fact that a conservative has been found in this house. I would like to leave it at that, thank you for Mr Otten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u74	Follow up on your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u75	Mr. Chairman. Before we had this interesting exchange of views, I was at the second part of continuity, namely that society has barely been able to cope with the corona pandemic, psychologically, in the well-being of people and in the waiting lists for youth care, financial care, logistical deficits and staff shortages in all sectors. So that also affects the chain of law. Of course, new questions have also arisen, partly because of legislation that we have adopted in this House. There are public-order distortions that never existed before, because those rules were not there. There have been fewer cases in the courts, but there have also been very complicated cases. The most important question I have to ask the rulers is whether they can give an insight into the parts of the organisation of their own departments and the chain of law. Where are these deficits, if nothing is changed now, really going to affect the continuity of the organisations? What urgent action do they intend to take to address this? What's the situation if, in the worst scenario, it doesn't work? Mrs de Blécourt also pointed out that there are already considerable delays in the entry of judges in particular. Mr. Chairman. I've been talking about the canton cases for a while. They can contribute a lot to well-being and to public confidence. Experiments with neighborhood judges have been launched. The Council's annual report on case-law talks about innovation in case-law. That's what lowers the threshold. That can also prevent process escalation. There are community judges who literally receive citizens in community centers and discuss problems. Is the Minister for Legal Protection prepared to extend these experiments? How do they walk, anyway? At what rate is he going to expand them? I feel that this is the level at which best to work on reducing distance and trust. In addition, I would like to hear from him what initiatives he has taken to restore relations between the government and the social lawyer after his predecessor, like an elephant, has fallen through the porcelain cabinet and has certainly not aroused warm feelings in that group. He also had a number of experiments in mind. That's what we discussed here in this house. One of them was a form of triage. We have asked very critical questions about this. I have a constructive question now. What has become of this and what is the impact on the legal counter? Fortunately, I have the impression that it is no longer a question of reducing the costs of social law, but of helping citizens in their search for their rights. That seems to me to be a good thing. In short, what is the state of play? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third part: legislation as a core activity. This has already been discussed a few times: self-reflection, the Record Committee, "how do we actually do it?'. Two years ago, in a debate with the ministers of the rulers, we spoke about the state of legal protection. The subjects have all come along. Nitrogen, Urgenda and box 3 have not yet been mentioned. That's all the stuff we were doing back then. We then adopted a motion to ask the Council of State for information to see how we could create this cycle of improvement between the state powers. I found it incredibly stimulating to see the expert meetings. I thank the Registry for that and also the experts who were there. We had a rather special meeting with the President of the Supreme Court, the Vice-President of the Council of State, the National Ombudsman and the Chairman of the Equal Treatment Committee. In this discussion it was about the possibilities of improvement, while preserving everyone's responsibility, that thought will be further developed. I think that's a win. We don't know how to do it yet, but it's a profit that it's happening. My question to the government is along the lines of the interruption I had with Mr Recourt: what approach do the rulers in their field intend to take with regard to this improvement cycle, the abdominal pain files of the Council for Justice? Mr. Chairman. This awareness of improvement by signaling is profit. I think we should look very closely at how we are going to deal with this procedure, but also how we are going to do it in behavior. If there is a question in this Chamber or across the street asking what the judiciary is actually interfering with, then the improvement cycle has already started badly. I hope that is not so and that we can do it carefully. The Minister for Legal Protection has proposed the introduction test. He has described to us in a long speech how that should work. Long and short, it means that in the first period, in the first year, we look at what signals come into society and what happens in the field of improvements. We have to be careful that it does not become legislation on probationary leave. That's what I'm saying to ourselves, because the reason that test is there shouldn't mean that we take a step back and think, "Well, there's gonna be a test, so we're just gonna let it pass." The thing about the introduction test. Then a question about the state-wide legislative review by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u76	Mr. Janssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u77	The introduction test, interesting. I have also asked the Minister some questions about this. The April Minister's letter understood that although it is intended for future legislative pathways, ex post also looks at some examples of existing legislation. I made a suggestion on that. Would Mr Backer find it interesting to look at, for example, those abdominal pain files, as they have been raised by the Council for justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u78	I think it's an excellent idea. You mentioned the dust comb earlier. I think there is still a lot of legislation that has been on a shelf somewhere, as is the dynamics of previous cabinets. I am still surprised at the legislative proposals that are still coming from the Rutte I cabinet. I think it would be very useful if we were to take a critical look at the usefulness and necessity of some of the remaining issues. We have just discussed that, from a statistical point of view, more legislation can go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u79	Thanks to Mr Backer, I shall go back to the first part of his reply to my suggestion to look at, for example, the abdominal pain files, for at least looking at the ex-post introduction test. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u80	Mr. Chairman. I was at the state-wide legislative review. This is a letter from the Council of State of 19 April 2021, which was written to the Prime Minister in the cabinet formation. It includes a number of ideas, one of which is that the Ministry should have effective means to be able to take responsibility for the quality of legislation. That's on page four of the letter. I have two questions. Does the Minister for Legal Protection consider this to be the case now? For it is brought up in the assumption that it is not and that something must be done. If so, I would say: what would that consist of? Does that have anything to do with accountability? I know from my own experience that it matters a bit where staff members are in an organisation. And with the role of J&V in the integral responsibility for legislation of other departments? I think that in recent years a little distance has arisen. I am thinking of tabling a motion on this subject in the second time, perhaps after an unsatisfactory reply. One more point on this, namely to involve the implementation, the multidisciplinary teams that are also covered in that letter, in legislation earlier, i.e. to involve the executives in the process of drafting laws. The departments used to be so decorated, but well, because this has been set at a distance, it is now changing. Finally, Mr President. I apologize in advance to the Secretary of State for Culture and Media that I have spent so much time on the other subjects and so little on culture and media. It is interesting to see the dynamics of the media, again today. There is more dynamism and more resurrection if we do not meet than if we do meet. I thought that was interesting. I have a specific question for you. In November, my colleague, Mr Pijlman, was given a commitment from you to investigate whether there would be sufficient possibilities in the Media Act to keep certain expressions, such as those by Unheard of Netherlands, within the framework of the democratic rule of law and whether the Media Act would allow for this in the system. In view of the current discussion, I would also like to be given an answer on behalf of Mr Pijlman. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the state of the rule of law, it is a matter of difficult choices for the JA21 group. After all, the rule of law is a comprehensive concept and we should and would like to discuss many issues with each other. Fortunately, I am one of the last speakers, so I can refer with approval to the speech made by some of the speakers before me, such as Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks, on the confidence that we, as representatives of the people and the rulers of the citizens, must earn every day. We also endorse the many references, questions and comments on the supplement scandal, as well as the concerns expressed about the implementation of the new governance culture announced with much pandour. We are also concerned about the undermining of our rule of law by the serious crime that has been mentioned by several senators. The names of Derk Wiersum and Peter R. de Vries often fell today. However, since Mrs Bezaan of the PVV, Mr Nicolaï of the Animal Party and myself have explicitly identified the subject of press, media, disinformation and fake news as an essential part of our rule of law, and have had the honour of organising an expert meeting, I would like to devote our contribution to this issue. So what Mr Backer had just to apologize for was not very much about it, we will be talking about it a lot, also because this subject is very close to my heart personally. After all, I worked for a long time in journalism and the media. I would like to begin by thanking the experts consulted, Professor Bart Brouwers, Secretary of the NVJ Thomas Bruning and historian and political scientist Coen de Jong for their contribution to the aforementioned expert session. That was a valuable contribution. In my view, we agree that we cannot overestimate the importance of the free speech, the free press, the freedom to provide information in a rule of law. However, what is currently lacking in the Netherlands is some consistency in complying with beautiful principles on freedom of expression and free press. For example, the Netherlands has again fallen on the list of freedom of the press. It turns out we crime journalists can't protect us from the underworld. Crime blogger Martin Kok was murdered, Peter R. de Vries was murdered. Many crime reporters must sacrifice their freedom to heavy security. And, don't get me wrong, it's very good that that security is there, but it's a goddamn gat that's needed. A minister speaks out against a drink-talk program on TV. She'd be okay if that program even disappeared from the tube. While the same minister uses the NPO as a personal campaign tool for praised documentaries about her person. The former director of that NPO will be installed tomorrow as alderman in Amsterdam, for the same party as the minister. It is not very consistent and it is frightening for the confidence of Dutch people in press and journalism. After parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State will speak about Omroep ON, or no matter how you pronounce it. And yes, strange things are being discussed there. And yes, quite radical language is being used. That bothers me, too. I found something on that: I'm not looking at it. And I am confident that any criminal statements on that transmitter or on any station will lead to prosecution. Because that's how our rule of law works, isn't it? And even weirder is the fact that about that other new channel, Omroep BLART, no one shouts "foei" and "shame." No parliamentary questions, no concerned rulers. What's going on there? It may have escaped your attention because they have virtually no viewers........................................................................................................................................................ The founder demanded that the journalist stop asking questions, took away his laptops and demanded that tape be erased, with the laptops as collateral. Again, a lack of consistency in the public debate and from the political point of view of media players operating on or across the extreme edges of the free word. In the fight against fake news, entire media companies in our country are blocked. This was very much to the discontent of, among other things, the Dutch Association of Journalism, the NVJ. Blocking Zenders, isn't that what a self-respecting rule of law shouldn't do? Apart from the objection in principle, there is also a practical problem with blocking the Russian propaganda channels, because that is what I am talking about. Russia joyfully blocks the Western media in response. As more Russians would like to follow Western media than Westerners want to follow Russian propaganda channels, the number of people with access to more or less reliable information worldwide is actually reduced by such an intervention. That's not supposed to happen, is it? In any case, there is a fight against fake news going on at European level. The then D66 minister hunted ghosts and found no concrete example in her whole effort against fake news. However, free speech is under attack in this hunt for fake news. Mr. Chairman. It is a diabolical dilemma, because my group also sees the danger of fake news. There is. People who have been stirred up by conspiracy thinkers are at the door with torches at the minister's door. People play with their own health and that of their children by practicing alternative medicine. People attack journalists because they believe that journalists are part of a sinister global plot to keep us all poor and ignorant. And there are people who see in every intervention against fake news the confirmation of their own equal, like: you see, we should not know and they suppress the truth. Mr. Chairman. The free word, the free press, a reliable media, they are pillars of our rule of law. Without the press, especially the editors of RTL News, the scandal that has been mentioned many times in this debate had never come to light. The undermining of our society by organized crime would undoubtedly have been at a much more advanced stage without courageous journalists shining their light on the dark things of the underworld. Against the wave of disinformation of the tyrant Putin is good journalism. People at risk for their own lives portray the hell of Boetsha, Marioepol and many other towns and villages that have been trampled under the Russian boot. But the media are not infallible either, see, for example, the aforementioned broadcasters, the coverage of Israel, the stimulation of the climate panic and the influence of the narrative on immigration and multiculture. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore standing here with questions. I would like to hear the Minister of Justice's view on how to deal with the threat of self-censorship. There is no newspaper that will print Mohammedcartoons. Cabaretiers sigh under an aggressive cancel culture and make certain jokes but no more. Lompe pub talk leads in the rule of law The Netherlands to blackmail a complete talk programme. The wok-aggression is holding the debate hostage at our universities. I know the Minister as a passionate advocate of the free speech. I also know the Minister of the fine and fierce discussions that we were able to conduct freely as commentators at Studio PowNed. So I really wonder what she can and will do to ensure this freedom for everyone. On the other hand, I would also like to hear how the cabinet views criticism of media and press. The cabinet is represented here with three people, for which I am grateful. As I said, the press is not infallible and is not above criticism. But what stops criticism and starts conspiracy thinking or slander? I have one more question. I doubt this is for Secretary of State Uslu or for Minister Yeşilgöz. Can you give a definition of fake news? If we want to fight fake news as a rule of law and therefore want to de facto censor certain expressions, then we are obliged to establish clear rules of the game which must be respected, otherwise there will be arbitrariness. Why is it bullshit about deliberately replacing the Western European population with much-discussed fake news, but is it equally insane narrative that mass emigration from low-developed countries is a cultural enrichment, not fake news? Why is Putin's disinformation blacked out, but not the poisonous anti-Israeli propaganda from the Palestinian side? Why are there many concerns about conspiracy theories around covid and are spreaders sometimes arrested, but has the promotion of all kinds of proven unworkable alternative cures and antivax been allowed for decades? I'm not talking about the covid antivax, I'm talking about the antivax of the national vaccination program. That's really been around for a long time. That may be out of religious conviction, you can find something about it, but it is also very often a kind of new age disinformation. It's dangerous. Mr. Chairman. As far as our group is concerned, freedom of expression, the free press and the independent media must be subject to as little rules and restrictions as possible. JA21 eight Dutch people are able to deal with that freedom. We consider the Dutch to be able to receive their media offerings as uncurated as possible. We consider the Dutch to be able to collect as well. Being hurt is a choice and hurt feelings should never be a reason for censorship or self-censorship. We consider our rule of law strong enough to be able to cope with dissident, extreme and even untruthful expressions. However, we ask for protection from those who are under attack for whatever reason, for their journalistic opinion, their activism or their humour. There must be such protection regardless of political colour or opinion. If the free word and the free news are limited in the pursuit of fake news, we ask that this be done according to clear and transparent standards and frameworks. Consistent. If there is no clear definition of fake news and if there is no clear answer as to what a sanction should be, then we call on the government to stop the hunt for fake news and to have confidence in the Dutch citizen, the press, the media and the rule of law. Trust in the press and the media is trust in our rule of law. This applies to the citizen to the government, but also to the other way around. Mr. Chairman. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u83	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u84	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have one question for Mrs Nanninga. I, too, have faith in the citizen. Oh, thank God. We share that. But it's actually about social media. Due to the algorithmic editing, there is a pre-selection of news that is offered. We all have experience with that. That is pre-selected and eventually it becomes a channel that is completely fed to your own insights. Then there is less of that own power to judge. 'Cause what's on offer? I think there is a problem there, speaking of free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u85	Mr. Backer sketches here the fable trap, or the rabbit hole of the algorithms, in which you are presented things based on what you always look at. I started by expressing hope that Mr Backer also has faith in humanity, but at the end of the day it comes down to the fact that this is not the case. I think that people are really able to regulate their media consumption and that they are also aware of the fact that there is such an algorithm. I must point out, however, that the large media companies have, of course, a responsibility to be more transparent about this than they have been so far. I agree with Mr Backer. But it is also not, if you are antivax, for example, that it makes it completely impossible for you to go to the RIVM site and take the facts to your liking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u86	Then we don't understand each other very well. There's only so much time in a day, so the people are making choices myself. And then the architecture, the design of the social media, is so focused that whatever works for you, especially commercially, is sent to you. In other words, the image of the information you obtain is pre-selected. You may have initially contributed to that, but the end result is that there is much stronger pre-selection. This means that the provision of information is no longer such that people can choose between different facts, fake news, no fake news, if we can already agree on the definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u87	I draw the unfortunate conclusion that I have more confidence in people's ability to pierce through it and get their own information. Those influences, again, they're there. It should also be more transparent. I also think that the big tech, as they are called, does not play a completely pure role in this. However, this is a debate on our rule of law and what we are all doing here. Perhaps Mr Backer is proposing more regulation, I do not know, but I really think the Dutch news consumer is able, if he or she so wishes, to form an image of reality in his or her own way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u88	This is going to be a bigger debate on what free will can do. We have already talked about the ability to do things in the digital environment for people in all kinds of weak positions. Is one able to do what the government asks? Well, I have a little more doubt as to whether that's possible. Anyway, we can differ on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u89	I conclude that this is the case, so we disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u90	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Hiddema, on behalf of the Ferri Group, for his maiden speech. You know that it is good practice not to interrupt members at maiden speeches, no matter how unfortunate that may be. I would now like to give Mr Hiddema the floor for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u91	You want me to push a button?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u92	No, you don't have to press a button. You'll have to keep an eye on the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u93	No, I'm not gonna do that. And there are several reasons for that. Mr. Chairman. It is an honour for you to give me the floor, to speak on behalf of the Ferrtrop Group, and to speak on something worthy of respect as the rule of law. That's good. I'll finish the ceremonial part with one more thank you. Some speakers have already complimented me in advance on the fact that I was apparently able to make a maiden speech. I would like to thank him, but in particular a small word to Mr Otten for his involvement. I understand from all his publications that reach me today, that he has missed me horribly. I think that's a shame, I'm sorry. I am glad that my presence alone will give him a very generous vote for the rest of the day. I'm counting on it. That's really the whole ceremonial part. We have prepared ourselves for this session with experts. We have been accompanied by many experts who are professionally involved in matters relating to the rule of law. The atmosphere in all those conversations was benevolent and reassuring, without exception. Not a single alarm went off. Things had gone wrong and then there was this miserable surcharge affair, but according to the experts, the authorities have sufficient self-cleaning capacity to rectify it. Everyone's good intentions were mutually respected and we broke up in complete harmony. I have to highlight the constitutional developments that I will talk about in this speech from a slightly more grumpy point of view. I'm also very capable of that mentally today, because I'm rather pissed off. The rule of law is at stake: the democratic nature of the rule of law, the value, the stature of parliament. Well, she's gonna love it today. In social media, we're drawers because of what happened yesterday, a useless institution, shame is in place and you see, there they are again. I want one thing straightened out. I didn't speak here yesterday, but I was very responsible in the Alkmaar court. That was a process of fury. The court had been preparing for months that that trial would take place on that particular Monday yesterday. You will understand that this involves an entire organization. I told the court to do that on Monday, because I wouldn't have a Chamber day. So it's been planned for months. Now, a few days ago, I was informed that last night was scheduled for the first term of the debate on the state of the rule of law. Conscienceful as I am, I thought, "Oh, dear, how can I do that?" Then I get into trouble, because then I might still be in Alkmaar and I'll have to miss my maiden speech. You can't do that! So that's when I met with the management of this company. I said, "I'm gonna get in trouble if you expect me here Monday night, because I might still be in Alkmaar. That is completely regulated and that really cannot be transposed." Then I was told, what time do you think you'll be out of there? I thought, "That'll be about eight hours. Then I'll be gone, so I can be there by 9:00." "Then there is no problem," I was told, "because the whole evening is reserved, until 11:00 p.m. and perhaps later. You are the last speaker, so no matter how late you arrive, you are always welcome." I went to Alkmaar. A little bit more worried, I came back. I only took a cab because I don't trust the NS, especially at exciting moments. You're here at 8:30, and what do you see? The management has decided that the show is off. There's not enough audience. Well, that's a slap in the face. Your maiden speech, too little audience, no attention: it eats you up. I've never seen that before. So I'm a little shocked by it. That's gonna get a little dingy. However, everything will end up on its feet, but I do not like it today with the outside guard, who expects much salvation and blessing from this meeting, and of course from my speech in particular, which has been looked forward to. I'm just gonna get back to the grumpy stuff. The rule of law is certainly under pressure, from above, from government and from political populism, also from within, from the institutions of political populism, once again plays a leading role, particularly in the social debate, and from below, where the threat must only come from, the underworld. What does the government do from above, you might ask. That's what makes you so angry. What does the government do? Here's what he's doing. The government, we, a rule of law, a democratic country with a history of fear, should still be able to respect citizens, regardless of what they think or think what they think is right, where they get their information from, who they want to deal with and share equal opinions, how they want to distance themselves from other opinions, how they want to say that someone else is an asshole and wonder how someone else can think so stupidly and put that in the newspaper or on a piece of paper; it doesn't matter. And what does the government do? He sends a minister as a delegate to Brussels. He'll be back in the afternoon and what did he do? He has signed an oekaze that, on behalf of the whole of Europe, the Netherlands, the Dutch citizen, cannot watch Russian television. I have never done that before, because I do not understand a stupid word of it, but in the present constellation with Ukraine you would like to see how the Russian public is being played with propaganda. You can learn a lot from that. I suppose I should hope that the security services in the Netherlands will be able to look at these programmes, because you can surely derive from that where there is sometimes pain that people want to hide internally with propaganda. You can explain a lot of that. We, as citizens, are not supposed to be able to look at that. That doesn't make you any better, does it? Where do we get the nerve to, at European level, ban a whole population that is democratic to the bone, which is curious that it has a nature, is bold enough to deal with the opinions of others and wants to get an opinion on its own, in order to get to know what another person can see? Russians can take a look at it, I think. Right? This is crazy, isn't it? That's what makes me very angry. I think this is very dangerous for the rule of law, because we have a government with the participation of a party that always puts its soul and salvation in the ban. That started in 2017 in the elections. I was just in the Lower House. Then Minister Ollongren told me that we were threatened by fake news. The election was influenced by fake news. The two of us were also a bit part of that fake news and I don't know what kind of machinations of Russian origin that got us there. I'd never seen a Russian before. I'd never seen a rouble before. And I'm just going to ask the lady: what do you mean by "fake news"? I asked you to come up with something concrete. She didn't come out of that at all. In Brussels, things have gone wrong as well. Those journalists of De Gelderlander have been rehabilitated; they once had it to their liking. But it doesn't stop messing around: we have to take action against fake news. What's that, fake news? I can call a lot of Dutch fake news, which is pure party propaganda and which people can live very well with. Then you should be able to subscribe to another newspaper with your own adult brain. Or you're gonna take a look at another country, how it's going there. You orientate yourself on society and form an opinion. That is the citizen, the free citizen, which the Dutch State has to take care of. You do not have to act patronizingly in the sense of: it is better for your souls that you do not watch Russian television. It would make you really curious: what do they have to hide? Do we see things out there that get cleaned up a little bit? Go check it out! I don't know how to do it. I don't understand Russian. But that is something, namely that from above the freedom of the press must be watched very closely from this house and from the House of Representatives. Because if we let the ministers within the current coalition go their own way, they will be doing a good job of taking action against fake news. And that could lead to a lot of censoring measures. There's hardly been any fuss about that ban. I call it a ban; that is what it is de facto about. You can't look when you can't look. You don't like it that way. Barely a fuss, except of course how can it be otherwise a wise word of protest from this Chamber? The Dutch Association of Journalists has also protested at the European Court. We're hoping that's what's gonna happen. A second machination that is not legally correct is the tabooisation of unpleasant opinions. If you set the line, you're gonna run into the accusation that you're a racist, a xenophobic. That's what it started. New variants are now developing. You can see it very clearly in the asylum industry, also a major threat to the rule of law. No one really cares about that. Why not? Because they're deadly quiet. Why is one deadly silent? 'Cause people know it's all gonna go wrong. It is known that the shore will turn the ship. This can't go on indefinitely. In Ter Apel there are already ten men on a chair. This is gonna go south. There's no other way, because they're gonna keep coming. So at some point one has to acknowledge: we have to do something. And what are they gonna do? Then they are going to do things like Wilders, among others, and that is where the whole thing started, to whom they have said: with the foreign policy as you propose, you are a racist. That will dampen the debate. That's the tabooism. And they're gonna keep doing it quietly. What are you calling for? An asylum industry that you must say is a freak within our state system. Legal inequality. Random. IND employees, semi-skilled or fully trained, have to meet criteria that have once been established by Broekers-Knol. They can't do that at all. This is quickly settled or ended up in the trash.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u94	Mr. Hiddema, it is not customary in this house to address employees of departments or organizations linked to them. For this, directors are responsible. You can address them, not the employees, and certainly not the way you just did. So I ask you to speak to the government, not to the officials working for the ministers and the State Secretary. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u95	Oh, a little bit of learning. But the sounds from the service itself mean that they have to work together with a lot of people on the work floor who have not yet been trained at all. If I call it "unskilled," then so be it. But I won't do it again. All right, then. What it results in is legal inequality, randomness and ultimately fraud and blackmail. And finally there comes a children's pardon which has to save things, which is purely a reward for blackmail. Why does this last so long? Because criticism of it has been tabooed over the years. People keep their mouths shut, because you're on record as someone who's less fucked up. You shouldn't do that. I'm telling you, the shore's turning the ship. But it is being seriously delayed, because those who have to come up with new policies are the same ones who have previously said that those who advocate this new policy should move in a dangerous racist field and have to be regarded as xenophobic. Of course, that doesn't work out, but it's the same again. It is a simplification of facts, taking on prejudices, which magnify, so tabooize the political opponent and block healthy, clear, just practical policies. That's what it's de facto all about. And the rule of law is in the cold. He looks at it, he looks at it, and there's nothing he can do about it, while there's an injustice of justice. It's a legal freak. Then how do we solve it again? With populism. There are ten people sitting in a chair in Ter Apel. Well, shit. That seems to be very bad, and it's gonna get worse. What is the reaction of our Prime Minister, responsible for this current asylum policy, for years? That he's embarrassed to have to look at those chairs. It's a hypocrisy, you can call it shameless. That's using your own soul pain as a money laundering policy you run yourself. Then the good breast goes forward: I am involved in this misery that I see. But you don't come up with a practical solution for the people who are worried about it. In Ter Apel they already know a lot about how things are going. They don't show up there. Not a word of compassion for those people. But this is another moment to end up on the good moral side of the line, such a cleansing. Then there's something else. That is also a point and that is also tabooed, but we can also get beautiful spectacles with it. That's the Urgenda issue. That's dikastocracy. Dikastocracy, I didn't know it existed either, but it was invented here, in this house by one of your delegates, I understand. There's a talking politician coming up and he says, "We have to look ahead, dikastocracy." Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Fuck, fuck, fuck. See? Fascism. The judiciary, you want to take it out. The independent judiciary is at stake by accusing them of administration by judges. Then you're all on the wrong track. That's bullshit, that's bullshit. Is it normal for the law to justify that in a very bad article in the Civil Code, a small group of action without any political mandate to be sent to justice on the basis of what they call the general interest, should then be allowed to commit a violation of human rights treaties which are never written for these cases, it is old anyway, does not matter; right to health, yes, it will be necessary and then by a court judgment to charge the government and the entire population with a political judgment of the most marvelous? Is it just, is it legal that such a club without any mandate cripples the whole country? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because if you object to it, you obviously don't consider judicial independence to be high. Well, the Frentrop Group and I stand for judicial independence. We want the judges to be appointed for life. You can't bother them with politics. Leave them out of it. That is simply the best way to respect the independence of the judge. And that's what we want. So you have to stop the judge from getting into politics. 'Cause that's gonna happen all the time. There will be more people who think: that is fresh, what Urgenda can, so can we. One can take an old human right, for example. I call a right to live, a right to health, the right to undisturbed enjoyment, wherever. One can say: it doesn't matter that such a right is from 1800, it could be, but we do use it. One could then say: and then we are going to construct a general interest. The general interest that then plays is perhaps much greater than the general interest that people who came after Urgenda had in mind. One could then say: "And then we are going to protest against wind turbines, solar panels and illegal asylum seekers in our territory. No, we're not entitled to any trouble. That's not in the treaty. It's not allowed." Imagine that the judge would go along with that, and would oblige the government to follow the judge's judgment on those policy points. Then the fun would soon be over with the Urgenda fanatics. Then it doesn't play anymore that the judge has to be independent. Then the judge is politically engaged in a way that they don't like. This way you never create tolerance between people. The judge is being abused for his own parish. It is called "general interest" and the judge becomes a game of politics, because the outsider sees the judge as the one who pursues the government's policy. And this while the judge does nothing but interpret these stupid treaties and order the government to act in accordance. So that's a threat to... what are we talking about today? The rule of law. That's what I'm gonna call it. But dikastocracy is also tabooized, because that is fascist. Well, thank you. I think it's a serious problem, and I've never noticed any tendency to fascism in myself. Then comes politics, populism. That's the biggest problem. I hear it here today and there is a high vote here on the value of the rule of law, with the best intentions. It's being discussed reflectively. There are writers and writings quoted. And there is a nuanced thought and debate. Do you not think that the opinion of the Dutch citizen on the rule of law he is experiencing is influenced by what we have to say about this? That doesn't affect that judgment at all. One thinks: there is another business filler to ord and what does that senate actually do? They don't just think that today. No, I'm not. It is determined by the media, by the imagery. And how does this imaging come about? You see it everywhere in politics: it is created by the search for the victim. There's been a glorification of the victim. As a politician, you must be regarded as compassionate, as involved with the vulnerable and with the victims. The victim is acclaimed, even if he is not a victim at all, because that doesn't matter and facts don't matter. We need victims and they'll know. That's how the media gets all "hot items." I call racism, now sexism; it doesn't stop. State deportations of children. I'm just calling it a cross street. That people take it from the judiciary. This is what's on it; you don't want to know. There are politicians in talk programmes: it is a scandal because they are looking for 1,600 children. Where the hell are those children's judges? Why don't they come to the Binnenhof enquire: Have you gone mad? I've made so many decisions about removals. In all the dramas I've encountered internally, behind the front door, the word "fees" didn't even occur. You have no idea. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Because if you do that and you fall out of character, it's not a good time. You shouldn't say, "Well, victim, victim, it was a fraud in there. What was that about?" No, no, no, you really shouldn't talk about that, because that's not convenient. This brings us to what, in my view, is the greatest threat to the healthy sense of justice and to the tolerance of citizens towards those who think otherwise. That is the best guarantee of a healthy, vital democracy. You can take something from someone else, can't you? We come to the most ignorant, most damaging to the rule of law phenomenon there is. That is the hideous phenomenon in the Dutch media culture: the NPO-talkshow. The politician knows only one point of reference, certainly next door: his fellow politician. "How did Pietje do with Jinek yesterday?', "Did you hear what Marie said to Beau?" Thousands of cameras, of those puffy chickens, on you, hupsakee: "What do you think of Pietje?', "What do you think of Marie?" I see that all day long. It determines how citizens feel about the functioning of the rule of law. The key to this is the role of the victim. The victim will be honoured and will be on a talk show. I call that a TV temple of healthy folk feeling. There's always a high priestess, because empathy must be shown to the victim. That's usually what a lady's chosen for. The viewer appreciates it when the lady in question looks uncritically at the victim. Those are the ingredients needed to get ratings, because that's what it's all about, of course: fuss and emotion. The truth has long been dead and is not interesting at all. Facts are way too distracting. So in the scandals social malheur is central. The emotion is the focus. You'll end up with the victim. It has to come to its own, because only then can the emotion play out. Then the TV, the high priestess, the TV aunt, comes to glorious moments, because it can look up to a wailing victim, very understanding and very sensitive. The viewer appreciates that very much and that improves the ratings. There's always a politician on it. He always agrees with what the victim has brought to large scandals. He doesn't know the facts, he doesn't know the file, he doesn't know if it's their own fault, and he doesn't know anything about the other side, which is obviously a vandal. Because of course there is always search for saints and scapegoats. Otherwise, the system won't work and it'll collapse. One cannot ask: Miss, is this correct? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You'll get the politician. It is included, which slides on and has heard from his PR managers and the party bureau that he should be careful: "If you sit there, they let the victim speak, but if you want to get into the picture, you have to look at the victim permanently understandingly; if she breaks through emotionally a little bit, you have to console a little, because then you stay in the picture constantly." That's how it works. So what does the politician do? This shows understanding, expresses his appreciation for the courage of the victim and then says that he has always been very committed to dealing with this kind of disorder, in particular but also in his party. At "Thank you for this conversation," he also says: "I am considering a Chamber question." And bye! The problem lies with another person the next day; then we have had that again. The next day we look at the ratings. The problem goes on and on, because the viewers think: "What a scandal there in The Hague. That politician can handle it a little bit, but it's unbearable. How is it possible that this can be done under the rule of law? It's really terrible." That's how institutional racism gets; that's what it is now. You can polish anything with that. As long as you can say that this is a factor, facts and social damage no longer play a role, because there is institutional racism in the game. We once had the misery, that stupid death penalty with regard to George Floyd, who was so gentle gentleman who was simply, like, strangled with the knee by a stupid, primitive cop. What did we get? An avalanche of victims who are still going on. One after the other strives in commenting on his own destiny. Always racist, always screwing up. I don't give a shit. That's not externalization. That's not blaming your own failure or blaming racism. No, that's very bad. That's what happened to him. And that goes on and on; that doesn't stop. It's such a big deal by now. If you want to use a taboo in politics, you have to link it to this. Then you're always right. You're not risking anything. You're on the right side of the line. You always have to do that. But, yeah, what did I want to talk to you about? I've already had these subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u96	You've only got a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u97	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u98	You still have a minute of your speaking time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u99	How long?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u100	Forty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u101	I'm not gonna make it. Well, I guess I'll just go to a new topicality. We have solved it: racism is now institutionalized. What did we say to that? Institutional anti-racism. It's a feeling about the anti-racist money pot. I've been researching how much money all the municipalities spend on racist programs. Until the Groningen rural communities, the fight against racism committees are active.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Hiddema. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u103	But I'm not done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u104	You have registered yourself for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u105	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u106	You chose to register for 30 minutes. The custom here is that we also stick to the time booked, otherwise we cannot plan the meeting. So thank you very much for that. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Would you allow me to outline something of your background? You studied Dutch law at the University of Groningen, where you specialised in criminal law. For 45 years, you've been a lawyer. And since 1981 you have your own law firm "Hiddema" with branches in Amsterdam and Maastricht. The website of your office says: "The opposing party is in all cases the Public Prosecutor's Office." In politics we know only one opponent, that of Jacobse and Van Es, the "Partij for all Dutch who no longer know against the Netherlands." By the way, that motto is contrary to the electoral slogan of the party for which you entered the Chamber in 2021, namely "Vote back to the Netherlands". In 2017, you started a new career at the age of 73: in politics. You became a member of the Two-man Group in the House of Representatives for the Forum for Democracy. After three and a half years, you announced in November 2020 that you would terminate your Second Parliamentary Membership. Your political pension was very much yours. Yet you chose to make a political entrance six months later, this time in the Upper House. A further advantage of the part-time membership of this Chamber was that you, via the Senate, "keep a finger on the wrist of national politics and can still plead for punishment," you said about your return to the Binnenhof. Parliamentarians are also advocates. We just heard you do it. Yet the House of Representatives felt like a minefield to you, you said shortly after your election. You had been nervous, and you confessed when you made your orator's debut. I quote: "I felt different standing on my feet than standing in court. It's the moment, the land interest, the entourage." Today your debut in the First Chamber followed, now on behalf of another group. Now that you've been politically active for a while, probably with less nerves. Especially in view of the subject, the state of our rule of law, for which you have been committed for almost your life. Mr. Hiddema, congratulations again on your maiden speech. We look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a short moment so that I can congratulate you on behalf of all my fellow Members. I would ask you to stand before the rostrum for the congratulations. I would ask Members to remain seated, with the exception of the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u107	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-11.u108	As reported this morning, I would consider when this debate can be concluded. We are now going to suspend briefly and then start the debate on the possible participation of the Dutch State in an Air France-KLM stock issue. I propose that we begin this debate at the moment when the committee has reached a decision on this matter. I'll suspend the meeting until then.
