ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the bill 35401, Amendment of the Public Health Act to the incorporation of the 2019-nCoV Scheme. We are now ready for the government's response in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The second part was about the amendment of the Public Health Act to incorporation of the 2019-nCoV Scheme, as it is officially called. That means adding COVID-19 as A disease in the Public Health Act. The fact that COVID-19 is an A disease has been determined for a long time, and you mentioned it. This happened with the ministerial arrangement of 28 January 2020, so even before the first patient was diagnosed, on the advice of the OMT. This gave COVID-19 the legal status of A disease under Article 20, first paragraph of the Wpg from 28 January 2020. The same article requires that within eight weeks a proposal of the law for the incorporation of that ministerial regulation should be sent to the House of Representatives. This is satisfied with the submission of the relevant legislative proposal on 20 February 2020. That clue as A-disease has to do with three aspects. The reporting obligation has already been mentioned. In case of A disease, an infection must be reported without delay to the GGD, which passes it on to the RIVM et cetera. Secondly, the measures that can be imposed to protect public health, such as a temporary ban on work, forced investigation, isolation and quarantine. Thirdly, the question of whether national direction is necessary by the VWS Minister. The latter, the national direction, only applies to an A disease. As you know, B1, B2 and C disease are subject to different powers and the management of the fight is then invested with the mayor. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the answer to the questions asked, first of all a question from Mr Nicolaï: what is the point of dealing with this law at the moment and why is there no waiting until the Twm expires? As appointed, COVID-19, with the designation in the ministerial regulation, has been granted the legal status of an A disease for a long time now two years ago. The present bill only confirms this. In this respect, I do not see any added value in waiting for the legislative proposal to be introduced. Mr Nicolaï referred to the duty of immediate notification. Because of the epidemiological situation, you were right to refer to the very large number of patients. In practice, therefore, there has been an exemption from this point of view almost from the outset. You can remember that one of my predecessors was mentioned of the very first patient on TV with a note, but some time later that did not apply anymore. This was later formalised in an official exemption under Article 22 (4) of the Wpg. Mrs Faber asked: why does the Minister suddenly want to regard COOVID-19 as a group A infectious disease and why not withdraw it? I've been naming the history for a while. A ministerial arrangement must be ratified by law. That is the purpose of this bill. Even though we seem to have reached a different stage in the epidemic, it is still important to ensure that regular provisions of the Public Health Act applicable to group A infectious diseases apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u4	Three times is the charm of this microphone. Good. The Minister states all this about the ministerial arrangement and that it is then an infectious A disease. But of course you also have moving insight. Two years ago, the situation was very different than it is now. We're in a very different situation right now. We have many more infections, but it's far less fatal. The disease and hospitalizations are also much lower. It is, of course, quite striking that the Minister indicated last week in the Lower House: the First Chamber does not have to agree at all with infectious disease A. Then the Minister also indicated that he did not know at all that it was on the role here. So I wonder who put it on the agenda of the First Chamber as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u5	I referred to the fact that the legal status of the A disease was already obtained by ministerial regulation in January 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u6	That's a piece of the answer. Look, it could be in a ministerial arrangement and it would have to be converted into a law, but it's been over for almost two years now. It may be that the situation will change and that it will no longer be necessary. So it is not: we said that then and so it is simply carved into stone. Of course, it can always change. Then I still have the question of how it is possible that last week the Minister indicated in the Lower House that the First Chamber did not have to agree at all. We must agree, because you yourself say that it is in a ministerial arrangement, so that is not quite right. And then there is the fact that he has no idea that we would be debating here today. I wonder, then, who put it on our agenda as a matter of urgency? I take it the minister is in charge of the ministry, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u7	I cannot escape the impression that this was not put on the agenda as a matter of urgency at the time when that ministerial arrangement and the submission of that law of January and February was two years ago. It has then been in my own department for a while. Note that in May 2021, more than a year after the ministerial settlement and the submission of the bill, the House of Representatives asked once again to give priority to this issue. Then it was discussed in the House of Representatives and finally it came this way. All in all, it's been a long time. If you ask me then... Mrs Faber refers to the fact that the situation is really different in the meantime. Let me refer to the debate we have just had in detail on pandemics and endemics and on what we still have to take into account for the coming period. One of the things that I have indicated to you is that it is extremely wise to take into account that there is another chance that you will have to conduct national management in the case of new variants. Then a question was asked about far-reaching measures in the event of a direct threat. When is there a direct threat? In determining a direct threat and the use of concrete measures, OMT experts are asked for advice. They also take into account the situation in Europe. They regularly look at other European countries. In December, the arrival of the omikron variant of information came from South Africa. I'm sure you can remember that. There were also opinions from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and the World Health Organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u8	The Minister states that advice is requested from the OMT. Is there, then, some kind of decision-making tree on which they will come to their judgement? Because I assume there's something on the basis of which they decide. I don't think it's wet fingering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u9	Of course, there is, first of all, a decision-making process. There is also input. Then we will return to the discussion we have just had. It concerns, for example, the predications for the number of cases of illness and the number of people who become ill so that they need help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u10	Is the Minister prepared to share this procedure with us and send it to us in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u11	Already in an earlier debate with the House of Representatives I indicated that I indeed intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u12	May I conclude from that that is an undertaking that you will also send it to this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u13	Absolutely. Then Mrs Faber also asked why COOVID-19, with a mortality of 0.9%, still has to be an A disease. As has already been said, it ensures that appropriate measures are in place and that, if necessary, national direction can be taken. Mortality is not the only factor here, as has just been discussed and before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u14	The Minister states that there are more conditions to be classified as infectious A, and that is true, but mortality is very low. You say the calculated mortality rate is 0.9%. It may be lower in practice, but we will leave this discussion behind. Look, of course, there are more diseases that may have a higher mortality, but that don't give you A status. I don't mean it rotten, not negative...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u15	It doesn't feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u16	But then it seems a little exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u17	I believe you have asked this question a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u18	No, there's something else coming. Isn't 0.9% a little exaggerated to call it an infectious disease A?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u19	It is always a combination of the number of cases of disease and the risk per case of disease in itself. Someone from your room made the comparison with viral haemorrhagic fever earlier, including known to Lassa fever. In very rare cases, that's one patient. This one patient is reported, not only nationally, but it is usually also mentioned in the newspaper, not by name and name, but that a patient has been admitted. There the mortality rate is very high, but if the patient in question dies it is by definition one death. Here it is 0.9% of 80,000 cases a day, to stay with your number. That's like another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u20	Of course, the more deadly a disease is, the fewer infections there are, because you just have less time to infect other people. And it is also true that the infectious diseases classified in category A are all very deadly, with high mortality, but they are rare. At COVID-19, it's exactly the other way around. Well, then it's out of tune, isn't it? Then it doesn't match the rest, you'd almost think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u21	Perhaps I can refer to the fact that we have had more than 100,000 hospitalisations in the Netherlands alone in the last two years, of which more than 17,000 patients have been in intensive care for a very long time. The mortality is one factor, and so is the illness, that's what it says. Someone in your room also referred to lung covid or post-covid syndrome. This is a serious virus and not just a cold virus. A mortality rate of 0.9% doesn't sound that high again, there are several percentages that you mentioned, so don't hang me on that, but I'm referring to the number you're talking about, but in very large numbers, the disease rate, the mortality rate and the proportion of people with long-term complaints do have a major impact on health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u22	Then... well, you're already at your tenth, but go ahead. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u23	Thank you so much for the coulance. But then isn't the best way to prepare for a pandemic or an epidemic by putting hospital capacity in order? That's just the shortest blow, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u24	I'm afraid that's the last blow you have to make. And with that, I am absolutely not saying that it is not important, but you have to imagine this. Let us say that we would be able to increase care capacity by 20% with united forces and with a huge effort. Say that, but that's a huge effort, isn't it? And you will not hear from me that I am going to do that at all during this period; the target is already impossible. But what if it worked? And you're in a situation where infections and thus patients, as we've had before, increase by 70% in a week. Then you can buy two days of time with 20% more capacity before you have to take the same measures. The best comparison is Germany, where the care capacity, the ic-capacity, is significantly higher in many places than in the Netherlands, and the same measures had to be taken at all times in time. And at the moment, the situation in Germany in many places is more difficult than in the Netherlands, despite the great care capacity. That has everything to do with vaccination and boost status. So I totally agree with you, and I also indicated that we really need to focus on expanding healthcare capacity, but unfortunately it is not the case that we... Look at Mr. Van der Voort. If Mr Van der Voort is able to double his ic, it may be that we want some capacity. It's a major effort if that could work. And if it works, and you get a new variant and it makes you seriously sick, then you buy some time, but very little. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Faber asked for PCR and breeding cycles, and she indicated that it is high time that the Ct value was reported or made public. There are over 200 different PCR workflows and methods in the Netherlands, and each lab has its own protocol for the exact cut-off value for a positive result. That's checked with RIVM's quality tours, and then it turns out that all labs are capable of detecting the virus. But the exact Ct value from one lab is not one-on-one comparable to the Ct value from another lab. That is why I do not think the addition of this data is of added value for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u25	I also had some other questions in my first term, and that was about the number of cycles you can run. Does the Minister agree with me that, from 35 cycles onwards, you're no longer showing an infectious virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u26	That comes back to the same question I just answered. And that's where you need to introduce yourself. It's very technical, but the number of cycles on which you show the virus says something about the...... viral load in bad Dutch.................................................................................................................................................... But it may differ at different moments of your infection and infection. What matters is first of all, do you have the virus with you? And it's not like in someone where the virus isn't present, you referred to numbers of 35, 40, or 45, suddenly out of the blue that virus is going to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u27	Yes, but of course I'm not really getting an answer from the Minister. It is proven that after 35 cycles you no longer have an infectious virus. And it's true about the virus load. The virus load is important for the extent to which someone is contagious. But when I read that RIVM starts with 30 cycles and then 35, and that in practice... That was also in the answer of your predecessor, who wrote in a letter written in the protocol that 40 to 45 cycles are running for most tests. Well, then you get everyone positive, in fact? And we're talking about infections here. Then the question is: what is an infection? A contagion is actually so, I think, we need to hear that a positive test. But if you're going to test, not with a SOP, so without a standard procedure, and one runs with so many cycles and the other with such a primer, and the other is testing on one gene again, because first they tested on two genes; actually, you have to test on three genes, but now they've gone back to one gene, so you're going to take everything with you. It'll all become unreliable, won't it? That's not scientifically justifiable, is it, when everyone else does things differently? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u28	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u29	First of all, let me take away the impression that someone who does not carry a virus will automatically get a positive result if you continue with the number of cycles long enough. That's not true. Someone's negative. You can go crazy with the number of cycles, you can make it 100 or 200, but if someone's negative, it stays negative. Of course, this depends on the potential pollution and so on; all this can be done. That is exactly why RIVM has a routine, intensive quality control standard and checks each individual lab over and over again. The results that come from that are good to my information. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u30	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u31	They can keep all kinds of quality checks, but that doesn't mean anything to me, because how is quality control kept? It's specifically about "I can't get rid of the impression that the minister doesn't know that if you want to detect an intact coronavirus that causes COVID-19, you have to test for three genes. One gene is now being tested. Or does the Minister say that this is not the case and that three genes are tested? Then it's still the case that different primers are used, so you get different results. You can say: if you don't have a virus, you can't test positive. That's right. But someone can also carry a small piece of the protein, which can also be flu virus, because if you test for one gene, you don't test specifically for a corona virus. So you're gonna take everything. Those tests will be unreliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u33	At the time we have a reliable...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u34	No, no, no, no, Mrs Faber. I think your question is clear now. You'll also get a second term. Then you can ask your question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u35	Unfortunately, I would also give the same answer in the second term. The quality control for the coronatest in the Netherlands has been invested at the Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu. That's their job. They do that exceptionally well. I have no reason to believe that this is not happening properly. Mr President, that is the answer to my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u36	And you've finished with this, you mean? Was that past tense?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u37	Yeah, it was past tense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u38	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV. Oh, no, Mrs Faber wants one minute's suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u39	I give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister himself states that the shortest blow would be, for example, 20% expansion of hospitals. Of course, that costs a lot, not only financially but also in terms of effort. But now half the economy is on apegaps, and that costs a lot. If we look at the efforts that had to be made to do so from the business community in order to remain somewhat stable, I think that extending hospital care is a better way to go. There's a bit of an irregularity in that whole proposal. For example, I'm looking at those PCR tests. I'm still on the verge of not being clear. There are dubious e-mails from civil servants. The Ministry interferes with the OMT advice, while the OMT should be independent. There is at least one RIVM member who has an interest in the number of tests that are earned. So that's not quite kosher either. You shouldn't want that at all. It has been said before that all these measures have made sense, but if we look at the statistics... I cannot show them from the President, because I should have shown them earlier. I'm just gonna tell you what I've got in front of me. This is from Our World in Data. It's got really nice graphs. I have graphs from the Netherlands and Sweden, for example. You can see the graphs are identical. Only one is slightly higher in the peaks than the other. Sweden has hardly taken any action in the first wave and in the second wave a little more, but not so much. Then you can see that it has been much worse in the Netherlands. Whether all these measures really make sense is debatable. Because it can't be proved. After all, you don't have the situation of being and not being. That is what the Minister said in the previous debate: we are not going to take measures in one village and not in the other, to see how things are going. Of course you don't want to, because we're not experimenting with that. You can never prove that that measure made sense. You can say that you're going to reduce the number of contacts. Even if you keep a little distance from people, you can still get it. It was said that the catering industry was shut down. Then what happened? Then people started organizing things at each other's homes. A report has been published on this subject, and this is also known by the Ministry of Health, which states that there was a higher risk of contamination at home than in the catering industry. Our question to the Minister is to hold on to the bill, to wait until there is more clarity about the pandemic and more clarity about the endemic phase. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you so much for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Here comes Mr. Verkerk with a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u42	If I listen to Mrs Faber's second term, I have the impression that she has said a number of things that the Minister has convincingly said, or has not heard or understood or did not want to hear or understand. Mrs Faber is soliciting a lot of mistrust. I'm just gonna take the PCR test. A Cochrane review has been done. All answers to the questions you ask can be found in that Cochrane review. If an epidemic goes exponentially and the R-value is high enough, you can double the number of beds if you're two days ahead. That means that what you're saying simply can't be done. It would be good if you knew what exponential growth is, which recognises and says: my proposal knows its limitations. Just admit it after the Minister's good answers. That helps the debate and then we come to the real issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mr President, if I may, I should like to say something personal. The colleague says I didn't hear it or I didn't understand. He also said in a personal conversation that I don't understand it that way. Well, I understand it all perfectly. I don't have to take anything back. I stand by my point of view. If you can provide me with a list of the results of the PCR tests with Ct-values, then you are my colleague. But you can't, because that list isn't there. And if that list is there, it won't be released. So they shouldn't tell me I don't understand, because I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u44	Even if I don't consult that list, I'm still your colleague. At least that's how I see you, if you don't mind me saying so honestly. However, I see that we are coming to a piece of scientific debate here. I'm not a virologist. There are a lot of doctors who are. They know what's going on. I don't think you're a virologist either. I do not think that we should have this kind of debate. The point is that the Cochrane review has an incredibly high status. If you want to know better than the Cochrane review then you really have to come up with very hard arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u45	I also know I'm not a virologist. Yeah, I get that. But you don't always have to be a virologist to know whether or not you're being cheated. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u46	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. While we are meeting here, Boris Johnson has lifted all restrictions tonight. While 95-year-old Queen Elizabeth II has been tested positively for corona, the British government offers perspective. "We have to learn to live with covid," Johnson says. "It is time to switch from restrictions to personal responsibility." Quarantine restrictions will therefore be lifted in England from Thursday. Vaccination passports are also no longer required. The Living with Covid plan, Johnson called it tonight. "Celebrate the sun shining, but take your umbrella." Mr. Chairman. That's perspective. We're gonna live with covid. We can take into account that there will still be setbacks, but that is also a personal responsibility. The government can't keep arranging everything forever. Where is the perspective in the Netherlands, I ask the Minister. I also asked for this in the previous debate on the extension of the emergency law. When will this minister and this cabinet offer the Dutch people a perspective? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, in replying to the Minister, we have not yet heard a good reason why COOVID-19 should now remain on the A list. I think I speak for many here in this First Chamber, that we would have liked a more substantive answer from the Minister. It's the First Chamber here and not some hospital boardroom. If this answer is not forthcoming, we shall unfortunately see no alternative but to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u48	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Do you have the opportunity to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to refer to Mrs Faber's remark: 20% increase in healthcare capacity is the shortest blow. I was quoted with that, but I have made it explicitly something else. What I have appointed is that expanding care capacity is not the first thing you have to do. There are a lot of other things first. Then I used the example: suppose you would be able to have 20% care capacity... I also mentioned that that is a major effort; it is very much the question if that would succeed. But suppose that... et cetera. I do not have much more to add than I have already mentioned. The same applies with regard to the comment on whether or not it is possible to prove measures. That brings me to the point made by Mr Otten and the situation in England. I think it is extremely important to compare the situation in different countries in Europe and beyond. England has often been cited in this respect. I would like to mention that, if we compare a situation internationally, we must do so in its entirety. That is extremely important, because we must give each other and our citizens the right picture. If I see what has happened in England over the past two years and where people are now standing, for example in terms of disadvantaged care, then that is a situation that I think we in the Netherlands would not have accepted, with all of us, including you here in the Chamber. If I just mention that, for example, nine months of transplant programs have been shut down in England. That simply meant that if you needed a new liver, a new lung or a new heart at the time, you wouldn't get it. It was covid capture and that was it. We have consciously committed ourselves to the multitude, perspective and also to looking at other patients for a good reason. That's one. Secondly, a response to the comments on everything now lift and whether or not a perspective. I think that we have done this consciously over the past period, by setting other priorities, by dareing to relax while the number of infections was very high and by making it so explicitly stated. For example, I started the last press conference with: we are opening up again. This means that we now have two measures in relation to England, as mentioned. But such a measure in public transport, for example, is really something you do for your vulnerable fellow citizen. And how serious can it be to have a mouth cap on a train for an hour while someone else is sitting next to you, perhaps old age, who has no choice for another train. I think that the Netherlands is open, and indeed with a perspective. Mr. Chairman. That concludes my reply to the remaining points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u50	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u51	I come to deal with the bill 35401, Amendment of the Public Health Act to incorporation of the 2019-nCoV Scheme. Last week, Mrs Faber reported that she was considering asking for a roll-call vote. My question is whether this consideration has now led to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u53	And what's the conclusion, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u54	A roll call vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-21-eerstekamer-7.u55	That's the case. We shall then vote jointly and severally tomorrow after the lunch break. I'm suspending the meeting for the night until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I thank the Minister for his presence. I thank the members and the staff. Tomorrow morning the debate will continue with the first term of the Chamber of the debate Amendments to the phosphate rights system (35949). I wish you all at home.
