ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u1	I will continue the thirty-member debate on the Ministry's involvement in the OMT opinions in a smooth movement. We have no less than 15 speakers on the list. The first is Mr Omtzigt of the Group Omtzigt. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first six weeks of the coronavirus in 2020, 6,000 people die from corona. Of those people, 2,600 die in nursing homes. In six weeks. It's the highest death wave since 1945. On April 14, 2020, so after six weeks, there's an OMT meeting. In it, four professors are calling the alarm clock. They want protective equipment for everyone when there's a proven corona patient in a nursing home. The OMT meeting itself will be recorded, but the sound recording has been erased. You can't do that under the Archive Act. However, we do know that the VWS officials e-mail in the evening. They ask for the OMT opinion to say: "The use of pbm as a precaution," i.e. the personal protective equipment, "in patients who have no suspicion of COVID-19, is not necessary and is not desirable in view of the current scarcity." That comes in the opinion, against the will of those professors. But more is happening. Jos de Blok wanted to use mouth caps, because 40% of the hospital staff were infected. He's getting out of the Minister's pocket. The inspection will maintain the non-use of mouth caps, rather than their use. There's a letter from the Secretary of State that I don't know what the status is. That's why I'm asking the following questions. Why has the OMT advice been amended and how do you look at it? Isn't it better for the president of the OMT to become independent? Can you make sure that VWS can no longer change the OMT advice? Is the State responsible for the coronados and the lung covid patients? If it is not the State, is the employer liable? Do you want to restore the recording? Mr. Chairman. Then the archives. In March 2020, the Chief Information Officer of the Reich gave an order: keep the corona documents in a hotspot. All departments had to draw up lists of what had to be saved 25 months ago. It said, including the apps. So they were specifically mentioned. I asked for those lists and they're not there yet. May I receive these lists from AZ, from the RIVM, from the Ministry of VWS and from others? Would you ask the Heritage Inspectorate to investigate the condition of the corona archives? At MH17 a lot went wrong for three years too. This is important for a parliamentary survey, for historiography and for learning from it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u3	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Kuzu. No, Mr Kuzu is shy. Then Mrs. Tielen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u4	I'm gonna let this go. I thank Mr Omtzigt for his questions. I was wondering what, in addition to the answers to his questions, is the ideal outcome of this evening's debate as far as he is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u5	Clarification of what happened on 14 April at that OMT meeting. At that time, in April 2020, 200 people died from corona a day. Four professors said in the OMT: if there is even one person infected, it is this memo from Professor Neighbor, Professor Hertogh, Professor Schols and Professor Achterberg, we must all use protective equipment. That has been happening in the United States since March. That's what happened in Germany. I would like to know why this did not happen in the Netherlands. I would also like to know who is responsible for those who have become ill or died at that time. In fact, there has been a deviation from the law, because according to labour law, you have to use the best protection there is. RIVM said use as little as possible. That lasted until September. In September there was no shortage of mouth caps or anything. The second thing I'd like is for the archive to be in order. Already a week after the start of the crisis, in March 2020, the Chief Information Officer of the Empire says: this is a major crisis. That happens about once every three or four years. That happened at MH17. That's what happened at the fireworks crash. It's called a hotspot. Then everyone must draw up a list of which documents are kept. Well, I get that that didn't happen in the first week. We were in a lockdown and everyone was really busy with everything. But I still haven't found those lists of what they needed to keep. That list explicitly said: think about the apps, because those apps must be kept. So I'd like to ask for an inspection of the archives. Are they okay? Are these lists there, so that if there is a parliamentary survey later, which does not go back and forth for a year in the vein of: the archives are in order, but we miss this or that document. This is how it happened in about every parliamentary survey. I wish they'd be put in order now. This is also important for future research, because that will naturally come after the corona crisis. That's actually what I hope, and just answer the questions about liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u6	Clear. It is, I think, also a tool for the parliamentary survey that is about to begin. I might have hoped a little bit that Mr Omtzigt would also wish that we might come to some agreements that would give more clarity and clarity for the future. But maybe I'll find out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u7	I dare not say all that, because the answer will then be very long. But I would very much like the Minister to reflect on it. I have asked it a little quickly whether it is wise that the chairman of the RIVM should be the chairman of the OMT, and whether in the future it will not, everything learned, can be different. And shouldn't there be a protocol? Of course, a ministry can ask the OMT; I get that. But if you look at the OVV... A ministry gets the OVV report and may say: in our opinion this is true or not. But then it is added what changes have been made to a question. So that can also be an illuminating question. I think it would be wise to follow that. Then a ministry can ask a question. If that question doesn't represent so much, we'll see it in the annex. But if you start a little bit more from a protocol, the authorities can work a little more independently from each other and they are no longer mutually exclusive. I think I would find that a desirable outcome to the discussion tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u8	Together with Mr Omtzigt we have asked a number of written questions about the archiving of sound recordings. We have just received the answers to those written questions. I think Mr Omtzigt has been going through them in a fleeting way. Among other things, it says first that the sound recordings are basically covered by the Archive Act and then not. Then Mr Omtzig is right to ask, together with other questioners, for the hotspot lists. They are not yet there, but we also read in the answers that the sound recordings of 14 April 2020 were destroyed. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u9	In answer 1 to those questions there are two things. A sound recording is a sign under the Archive Act. If you do not have destruction on your archive list, you must keep a statement under the Archive Act for twenty years. That's the default retention period. Those sound recordings were destroyed. If that sound recording existed, we could see at once whether something was modified or not; then we would just know. Then reference is made to a ruling of the Council of State. It says that you either need to have the minutes or the sound recording, but there is no so-called ECLI number; that is the number of the pronunciation. Since we asked the question yesterday and the answer came today, I understand that number has gone missing. So I'm gonna wait until I can read that statement from the Council of State to understand what's in there. The ruling I consulted on the Archive Act says: if you make a sound recording, you have it and you can't just destroy it. Anyway, I'll just wait and see. If so, it will have to be repaired. Moreover, I think it is wise to keep these sound recordings, also because the minutes are not public. The wobbled pieces also said that one of the employees asked how he could archive them in such a way that they were Wob proof; the Wob is the predecessor of the Woo, the Act of Open Government, which is now there. So someone was ready to file them. I don't know exactly what happened there, but I'm just expecting some clarity on that today. I would like to ask the Minister about this before I draw any conclusions on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u10	So I am very curious about that too, but it is said that sound recordings will be destroyed. Then we asked for those hotspot lists to be made public. That is still to be done, because the Minister feels that there has been insufficient time. I can understand that, by the way. But it is true that these sound recordings have been destroyed in principle, as is clear from the answers. I therefore wonder whether Mr Omtzigt sees other possibilities for the committee of inquiry to examine how things have happened and how decisions have been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u11	Last week, at the apps, we saw the following. In March 2020, the CIO said about the supervision of the archives in the Netherlands: make a list and also think about the apps. From the Ministry of General Affairs I have not been able to find a list of things, and certainly not if there are apps on them. I haven't been able to find those lists. Lists of things that need to be preserved are public lists in the Netherlands. You can have a discussion about it. For example, the IRS has been very stupid on the list that after five years they can destroy all reports from the management team. That's a bizarre short notice. So I'd like to have some lists updated as well. I know where to find the lists, but I haven't been able to find any of these lists. That's why I'm very curious if I missed anything. We'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u12	Clear, thank you very much. Then Mr Van Haga, of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u13	Mr. Chairman. On 14 April 2020, a VWS official writes an e-mail to add a new sentence to the OMT opinion. The passage on the use of personal protective equipment in nursing homes was not useful for the communication line. It wasn't right to explain that nurses in nursing homes didn't have to wear masks. Literally we read: "The text is aligned with..." There is a black beam. "Happy to be included in the OMT opinion." On April 15th, De Jonge says: "We have been advised by RIVM in what kind of protection you actually need. That's what we're sailing on." De Jonge keeps hammering on; I continue with my quotes. "We just follow the advice of the experts." "We base ourselves on the opinion of the OMT." "No, we're just following the experts' advice." How shocking is it to read this back with the knowledge of today? The proposal of four renowned scientists was to apply personal protective equipment widely, for all employees, in nursing homes in one identified infection. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet hid behind the sacred, independent OMT advices, but we were lied to and deceived. The advice of De Jonge, which he supposedly performed, was an advice from his own department to mask his own blunders. We didn't have enough personal protective equipment ourselves and what we had, we had sent a Boeing 747 to China. The result is that people died who didn't have to die. There's been a lie about the OMT opinions. Only thanks to the NOS' Wob requests has the cover-up been lifted. The cabinet should be ashamed of itself. My question is: does the Minister also think that this simply did not go well? Doesn't the Minister think he's responsible for what happened? How are we going to prevent this in the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u14	Thank you. Then there is Mr Kuzu, from the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u15	Mr. Chairman. My contribution is not aimed at torturing the members of the OMT, because I think they have done a lot of difficult work in a difficult time and have really contributed to how we have had to make decisions in the worst times of the corona crisis. But in the past period, so much has become clear that I openly wonder how much crucial information is still hidden in the enormous shadow that this cabinet throws over the Chamber. How big is the puzzle that the cabinet has presented to this Chamber and the country? Mr. Chairman. It was already clear after the request of the Wob-pieces by Nieuwsuur that the cabinet would like to have a finger in the OMT-paper during the corona crisis. Turns out it's not just a finger in the porridge. The department also tried to add some dried grapes to that porridge. The Ministry did not consult with RIVM one, not two, but several times on text changes in draft recommendations of the OMT. One time the OMT opinion was even sharper and the other time the OMT was instructed to weaken the advice. As Dijsselbloem rightly points out, there is a total mixture of scientific advice and decision-making. Consider that in 99% of cases the corona policy was based on the advice of the OMT. Please note that the cabinet has always stressed that the OMT operates completely independently. The vast majority of Members of Parliament hid behind these words: "We are not virologists. We're not experts. They're at the OMT." Now that the state intervention has come to light, it is clear that the previous minister was incredibly busy. It is completely indigestible that RIVM has swallowed the violation of its independence for sweet cakes. The text suggestions of the Ministry have been copied without a hitch. Even the spelling mistakes have remained in it. And that without that involved OMT members have been consulted. This not only violates the independence of the OMT, but also violates the credibility of scientific research. That is why I ask the Minister whether he agrees with the DENK Group that the role of president of the OMT is incompatible with being director of the RIVM. Does the Minister agree with the DENK Group that the OMT needs an independent president? Mr. Chairman. Last week, the current Minister also contributed to the malaise. Minister Kuipers stated in a reply to questions put by Mr Omtzigt and a number of other colleagues that there were no sound recordings of OMT meetings. In principle, they are therefore made, but according to the Minister they are not ultimately covered by the Archive Act. That appears to be wrong. The sound recordings have been made. Can the Minister explain why these were removed? Why didn't the minister speak the truth right away? Mr. Chairman. I've come to a conclusion. A parliamentary committee of inquiry is coming up. There's a huge burden on this team's shoulders. They should not only take bodies out of the closet, but it has every appearance that they have to expose a complete mass grave. That is why I ask the Minister to be clear so that the committee of inquiry can do its work flawlessly. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u16	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld, from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u17	Mr. Chairman. I am also making this contribution on behalf of Mrs Kuik of the PvdA, who unfortunately cannot be present today. Mr. Chairman. During the corona crisis, the Prime Minister said several times: "We," by which he meant the cabinet "to sail on science." That seems reassuring, because of course a virus does not care very much about political ideology. But these statements gave rise to false expectations. As a result, confidence in science and politics was damaged. Science is not a fixed outcome, it is a process. Only if the right conditions are met can we speak of science. Think of conditions such as validation and falsification, where contradiction is fundamental. Think also of the conditions of openness and transparency, so that all information can also be checked. Or the condition of complete independence, of autonomy without conflict of interest. Thanks to research by Nieuwsuur, we know that these conditions are not always met. We also know that civil servants did indeed influence the content of OMT opinions. Let me be very clear: this mixing is fundamentally wrong. I can already hear the Minister say that most of the adjustments are, of course, quite innocent. That's right, but in those 440 pages I also saw adjustments that weren't that innocent at all. The Safety Research Council is also concerned about this mixing of roles; we are not alone in this as a Chamber. That is why I am counting on a constructive minister. I have some questions for him. Does the Minister agree or does he not agree with us that this is an undesirable influence? Does the Minister reject this influence? And if so, is the Minister prepared to do something really different? Earlier I asked the cabinet whether RIVM should not become an independent administrative body, because that means that RIVM is more remote from the department. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the pros and cons of that? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said several times: we sail on science. There is another reason why I have great difficulty with this statement, because the debate on political choices should be held here. Here is the place for differences of opinion, for pros and cons, for weighing arguments, to sometimes clash heavily on content. Sometimes we get out and sometimes we don't. But by pretending that the coronavirus policy was based on scientific insights and had nothing to do with political ideology, the open debate was blocked. And I have a great deal of difficulty with that, because over the last two years political choices have been constantly made. Mr. Chairman. So we have to do something different in the future. As far as I am concerned, the OMT needs to be more remote from policy makers so that it can deal with the latest scientific insights. It is then up to the Chamber and the Cabinet to make political considerations on the basis of these opinions. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that a better process not only leads to much better political choices, but is also much needed to restore confidence in society. I would like to ask him: what is he going to do to improve that and what is he going to do to restore confidence in science and politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u18	Thank you. Then Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I start my contribution to this minister, I would like to take a few moments back to last week's debate with the Prime Minister. He was critical of this Chamber. It would always meet this cabinet out of mistrust. I am referring to this today because it is precisely in the fight against infectious diseases that confidence is so very important. Trust in policy is also a key factor in the success of policy. If that confidence is there, then compliance is also just higher in society and the fight against infection is more effective. If there is no such confidence, measures will be less well followed and so it can also go further. It is precisely for this reason that I find it painful that we are standing here again today to address the cabinet critically again. I do not want to diminish the commitment and work of all the people involved in this corona crisis, but I have to focus tonight on the part that did not go well. We also know from the OVV's partial report that a lot went wrong in the first period, especially in the nursing homes. It would appear that, because of its own interests, the Ministry insisted on the adaptation of the independent OMT opinion and that the minutes of the OMT were subsequently amended. As a Member of Parliament, these kind of signals make me suspicious. For what if, in the biggest post-war crisis in this country, minutes were simply made at the Catshuis or the recordings of the OMT meetings were kept? Then they would all have helped to remove the feeling that the Chamber had been informed incompletely and incorrectly. But those minutes do not exist and those recordings have been deleted. Can the Minister imagine that this really feeds the mistrust? Can he imagine that this not only feeds mistrust towards the cabinet, but also distrust of independent science, and that we should not want that? I also have a number of questions that have already been asked in substance, but I would like to mention them again about the examples we know of. Does the Minister recognise that those clarifications, as he calls them, were not neutral and that they also did not express the unanimous position of the OMT? Does he acknowledge that they were only needed as clarification, but that the underlying politics would make it easier for the ministry to move forward with the policy it wanted? I wonder if this Minister thinks that that is acceptable. And how could the same sentence with that spelling error from the Ministry e-mail, which has already been mentioned tonight, end up in those minutes of the OMT? Has this minister, for example, asked the OMT about how that could have happened? And finally, Mr. Chairman, because I see my time is ticking. Now that the corona crisis is being examined, it is likely to happen more often that missteps will come to light, so I have the following questions to the Minister about building that confidence. Did this minister ask when he took office what mistakes are still in that closet? Has he given instructions, for example, to proactively inform the Chamber about possible missteps of its predecessor? That is really very important for us to be able to build on, and as far as we are concerned, now is the time to do so, so hopefully we will not have to hear from the media again in six months' time that more has gone wrong than we had hoped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u20	Thank you. Then Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The U.S. Department has nothing to do with OMT opinions. A ministry whose former minister gave the statement "we follow the OMT" wings should not even want to see OMT opinions from its own integrity, let alone change them. Newshow showed that the Ministry said it didn't add to OMT opinions, didn't make any changes, and that this is false. But the lying didn't stop at the key transfer to the Ministry. The current minister said that officials had only proposed clarifications in the text. It is true that most of the comments made by the Ministry were intended to remove any ambiguity, but Nieuwsuur showed that that Ministry did indeed try several times to change the content of OMT opinions and that the OMT, in the figure of President Van Dissel, sometimes did not take over those proposals but sometimes did. The current minister has therefore misinformed the Chamber. And that's a false start. How does he look at that now? Those adjustments had major consequences. The Ministry weakens the oral mask advice in the care of the elderly. In September, the OMT wanted our nursing homes to wear mouth and nose masks. At VWS this became just an advice. And that had far-reaching consequences, although, of course, the bomb of the great wave had already taken place between May and September and the OMT had not become much wiser in those five crucial months. But anyway, from September onwards they wanted mouth-nose masks in the nursing homes and by VWS that was just an advice. And that has led unnecessarily to more infections among nursing home residents and nursing home workers. And one more thing. Professor Knottnerus, President of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, pointed out to us during the round table on the longer term of the Corona Policy that during the Corona Crisis, the Chamber could not co-operate on major social decisions and thus not on the people. Mr Voermans, Professor of State and Administrative Law, added that the Chamber not only could not take part in the decision, but did not therefore have the opportunity to be co-responsible. This is very bad. At the time of a crisis, a government must be able to act quickly, but that does not give it the right to dismiss the elected representative. The Chamber now only remains to find the truth afterwards, through a parliamentary committee of inquiry, on what measures were taken when and why. So there's a bone in there. The Ministry of VWS wishes to keep the OMT minutes secret, not to be confused with the OMT opinions or the OMT recordings. That's unacceptable. I understand that control is annoying and I would like to believe that those involved have acted with the best of intentions, but that does not justify renouncing the elected parliament, which has only two tasks, one of which is control. I therefore ask the Minister of the United States to stop blocking the Chamber in its statutory audit task and to stop keeping the OMT minutes a secret. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u22	Thank you. Then Mr Van der Staaij, of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u23	Mr. Chairman. Research carried out by Nieuwsuur showed that the ministry of VWS tried to make changes to OMT's advice in the first months of the corona crisis. That quite rightly raises a lot of questions. A pure separation between science and politics guarantees the independence and integrity of both advisors and politicians. One of the changes proposed and accepted by VWS was a sentence in the OMT opinion of 14 April 2020: "The precautionary use of protective equipment by staff in care for the elderly is not necessary and is not desirable in view of the persistent scarcity of pbm." Originally, this sentence was not so explicit in the OMT opinion. According to the Minister, the involvement of VWS was merely textual clarification and was not about substantive changes, but here it is still further. The use of protective equipment in care for the elderly was a crucial issue in the debates at that early stage. Does the Minister recognise that in this case the OMT advice was used by his ministry to create political support for a controversial RIVM directive on protective equipment? Mr. Chairman. The research carried out by the Research Council for Security, the OVV, also points to a mix of roles between advisors and decision-makers, for example because the chairman of the OMT, as a substantive expert, participated in virtually all crisis-solving. The OVV mentions it strikingly that he also attends consultations in which the OMT has no direct advisory role, including the crucial Catshuis sessions. The cabinet has already taken steps to define more clearly the distinction between advisers and politicians. We think that is a good thing. It is also important that the OMT opinion is made public immediately after completion, before the cabinet decides or communicates on this matter. In the relative coronalweigh of this moment we can take more steps with regard to the SGP. Finally, I would like to mention five. One: from now on, limit decision-making to the formal crisis structures, so no informal Catshuis sessions. Two: limit the presence of the OMT chairman at decision-making times. Three: explain explicitly in decision-making whether experts' opinions, including those of the OMT, are taken over or not. Four: consider an independent president for the OMT. Five: Set up a social impact team as a counterpart to the OMT as soon as possible. Finally, Mr President. We have great respect for everyone's input, including the scientific one, during this corona crisis, but this debate is an evaluation and, as far as we are concerned, is aimed at seeing what improvements we can make. They must be aimed at involving science as closely as possible in policy-making and at guaranteeing independence and integrity on the one hand. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u24	Thank you. Then Mrs Tielen, from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u25	Mr. Chairman. "Science must not be decisive for politics but provide information, and then the government or politics must look at it with different glasses." And, "... looking with a critical look is okay, but from the side." These are two quotes from the focus groups of the Rathenau Institute on trust in science and government. This afternoon, this research was presented at the Beweren en Verproven event, full of valuable insights for this debate, which is about the division of responsibility between the Ministry of Health and the OMT as the scientific advisory body of the government in health crises. Independence is crucial for trust in these institutions, a conclusion of the Rathenau Institute. We'll recognize that. This requires balancing, they say, because too much independence leads to a loosely sung bureaucratic body and too little independence leads to the appearance of conflict of interest and thus a pressure on confidence. That is why it is balancing between commitment and independence. Mr. Chairman. Exactly that balancing I see also in the wobbled pieces. I read in it constructive cooperation and co-thinking by the people who had to come up with new advice every few days that would lead to impactful decisions. A few quotes. "This sentence isn't working out very well." "I do miss what was so explicitly mentioned in the conversation." "Are you still looking at what's needed for communication?" But there have also been exchanges which in any case give rise to the above-mentioned appearances. They have also been mentioned by previous speakers. Is that well-meant to think along or is it undesirable influence of policy? Mr. Chairman. Quite frankly, I think it's somewhere in between. However, since that passage does in any case give rise to appearances, it is wise to ensure greater clarity and transparency in the future. This is also in line with previous recommendations of the OVV. The ninth recommendation of the OVV report is: "Protect the resistance to roll and ensure the independent position of directors as decision-makers and experts as advisors. Clear separation of roles contributes to the understanding and follow-up of public action and strengthens the democratic legitimacy of decisions."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u26	I wonder, in fact, how does Mrs Tielen come up with the idea that it is a sham, when you see how clearly this minister and his predecessor have stated that no substantive changes were made and that only textual clarifications were made. We've just been able to see in black and white that more has happened than that, haven't we? How, then, can Mrs Tielen not at the moment go beyond "the appearances"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u27	I can read those passages, but what is communicated is always much more than just those passages. We're talking about whether it's unwanted influence or something else. I find it difficult to draw that conclusion, but I do say that it does not look very nice. But let the parliamentary survey also look closely at that. At the moment I say: let's improve that, because that appearance is certainly not good for trust in science.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u28	No, but there will always, at all times, be much more information floating somewhere in the air. We'll never have the complete picture. I've heard Hugo de Jonge say there were 5 million documents on VWS, so we'll never have them all. The Committee of Inquiry will never get all the facts and all the documents on the table. But you can see very clearly that a concept OMT advice has gone to the VWS ministry stating that the OMT wants mouth caps in nursing homes. VWS says that this should be an advice and that will then be done. Then VWS changed the content of the OMT advice, didn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u29	In any case, VWS has given an opinion on the opinion, which is contrary to appearances. Mrs Agema is right; I think the minister of the week still wrote that it is more than 7 million documents. A lot of things will have been discussed that we don't see. She's absolutely right about that. That is precisely why, as a parliament, we are going to conduct a very in-depth survey on this issue. You can draw very hard conclusions there. Right now, I'm saying, it's not a pretty appearance. I am not going to draw any definitive conclusions, but let us at least ensure that we avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u30	This doesn't make any sense. It's clip-and-ready. It's black and white. So what is this line of defence of the VVD representative that has been studied in advance: we do not know everything yet and the parliamentary committee of inquiry will look into it? We have a minister here who said that no substantive changes were made and that only clarifications were made by ministers' officials. The evidence just came out that that's not true. He misinformed the Chamber in the first weeks of his ministry. That's a false start. That evidence has been provided. And then the VVD doesn't get any further than: well, it doesn't look very good; it doesn't look very neat; let's wait for the parliamentary committee of inquiry. The VVD can simply say here to the minister of VWS: "Never again. No more defending a ministry while something crucial like mouth caps in the nursing homes is adapted by VWS in an opinion. We don't tolerate that here." Surely the VVD can do that sometime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u31	Fortunately, every spokesperson chooses his own words. What I said was: let us at least improve that independence of those opinions is clear, that it is transparent. Well, I've given you a few words about that and I'm going to say a few words about that. That's my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u32	I understand Mrs Agema's anger, because Mrs Tielen is talking about "appearance." Indeed, we have had this debate before and there is no appearance here; there is a genuine adaptation of OMT opinions at the request of the Ministry. In fact, we've seen those documents. With spelling errors and all the suggestions of VWS have been incorporated in the OMT opinions. Then you can't say, "Well, it doesn't seem right"? No, it actually happened. I think it would be helpful if we could agree on the reality this evening, that this has been the case; that these directives on protective equipment in nursing homes have been adapted on request, at the request of the Ministry. Can we at least agree that that has happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u33	When I look at the wobbled pieces, it looks like it. But, as Mrs Agema said, a great deal has happened around it. I don't have a complete picture of what did and didn't change there, between who and who and at what time. That is why I have chosen the words I have chosen. I do not like it, and above all I think that we must ensure that the independence of the OMT is preserved, even when there are times when they need to get back to work, to say the most popular thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u34	Well, that's the point. We can already get into the situation in the autumn, or perhaps even earlier, that there should be another OMT, that there should be OMT advice again. Then we must have agreed here how to organise it better. Then we have to give this minister the order: stop doing that; we are not going to send more e-mails to the OMT and the RIVM to modify quotes or pieces or figures because that suits us politically or factually better. There's an opinion from the OMT and the cabinet has to act on it. If there are any questions, they'll send a supplementary note and we'll find out what the OMT says about it, in full disclosure. Isn't that the way it's supposed to be? I do think it is important for the VVD as the largest party here to make a ruling on which way to go. That we can at least agree today: what happened was not right. Those facts are just on the table. That is not an appearance either; those are just facts. I think it is important that we should be able to agree on this, that things should be different and that there should be a break with the method that has been used so far. Does the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u35	I have to count how many sentences it's back. I can read that in the Acts. Mr. Hijink said "we give this minister the assignment, and so on." I couldn't agree more. I'll count how many sentences they were, but I agree. That is why I say: I think we should take care, especially now in this coronal period, Mr Van der Staaij also said that we are making agreements that are clear, unambiguous and transparent, and that ensure that the independence of the OMT is guaranteed. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u36	I think we can soon agree on what should be better in the future. You don't have to have studied higher mathematics for that; that's obvious by now. But it is true that we also need to go a step backwards in the analysis and see how this misery actually happened, and what consequences it has had. Let me get a quote from March 18, 2020. This is something the Prime Minister said in the Chamber about the period when the OMT opinions were amended. "You and I are not virologists. Eventually, we sail on the OMT's compass. The OMT has all the expertise." As far as I am concerned, that is a truth as a cow, but at the same time there has been interference from the department in the opinions of the OMT, in which the Chamber has been presented to the Chamber by the Cabinet: no, we know nothing, it is all at the OMT and we sail on their compass. How does the VVD group actually reflect on those statements made at the time and the consequences it has had for the Chamber, but often also for society, because corona of course has had a significant impact on society?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u37	Yeah, quite an impact. If I counted correctly, 144 OMT opinions were issued. I don't know how many parliamentary debates there have been. We can all look back on that, but I sincerely believe that another debate is really better for that. We are going to talk about the OVV report, which is about the first period. There's a parliamentary survey on the way. I want to reflect and evaluate a great deal, but not on the basis of one single statement during one of those many debates in the Chamber. You said the OMT has all the expertise. I believe that we can have a whole debate on this too, on the question of what expertise? I have also heard voices from the Chamber, which I agree with, saying that it must go beyond medical epidemiology. So, what Mr. Kuzu is asking me to do, I'm not gonna give it all to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u38	In the many parliamentary debates we have had with each other here, it has actually been the VVD's strategy to mist. I see that the same thing is happening again. You do not want to hold a debate on the basis of one statement. Shall I read them all? I'll take five. "That's not up to us. That's what the OMT's about." 14 July 2021, the Prime Minister. "We can't make demands on the OMT." 14 July 2021. "Otherwise, you're really gonna fail the OMT advice." 3 November 2021. "The OMT is very clear about this." 3 November 2021. I can really make it into an anthology. I could have made it my speech during my contribution. So it's not just one verdict. If Mrs Tielen believes that we really need to learn lessons, then that does not start a few debates later in which we can be reflective of everything that has happened. Well, then that's actually starting now. Then it starts now. I do not think it is enough to make recommendations now only for the future and not to look back on the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u39	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u40	I hope that Mrs Tielen can at least reflect on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u41	What I think we should do is learn lessons. I have just said what I thought of it for a minute and a half, also on the basis of a number of quotes. I also referred to your quotes. I believe that we must, above all, ensure that we learn from this. I have already said that there is no doubt about the independent OMT opinion and that it is unambiguous and transparent. We can all say things about that. I'm sure I have a motion for that, too. In fact, I tabled a motion on it in February. But I simply do not think this debate is the place to evaluate the whole of the past two years and to evaluate how and whether the OMT has worked with the Ministry and what its consequences are. We just don't agree with each other. I think that's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u42	What I have some difficulty with is that Mrs Tielen herself mentioned the importance of science and the importance that scientists can do independent research. She brought up the Rathenau Institute herself. Then, here in the Chamber, a number of parties, including us, find that there is a rolling mix. We are not alone in that. The OVV also says that there is a mix of roles between what scientists advise and what we then politically decide. They're warning you about that, too. If we know that, if the OVV is also aware of this and if we read worrying things in the Wob documents, then we should not work very quickly to restore the trust of society, I would ask Mrs Tielen. Should we not take the first steps today to ensure that these opinions are genuinely independent, even with a view to perhaps future waves, rather than putting forward this debate and all the conclusions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u43	Yes. I think it's crazy, because it's like I'm making an argument and not landing it entirely. This is, of course, partly due to the transmitter of communication, but also to the receiver. In mid-February, when the OVV report was just out, I tabled a motion, which you all supported, to ensure that the advisory and decision-making process is analysed and lessons learnt from it. So that was three months ago. It also stated that we must frame the independence and autonomy of the parties concerned so that they are secured. I think Mrs Westerveld is creating a difference that I haven't recognized yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u44	Well, not necessarily. Of course, we can all table different motions to evaluate cases, to learn lessons and to do things differently in the future. But there have also been very specific proposals in recent months to ensure that these opinions are independent. For that we did not always get the support of the government parties. There is, of course, a little bit of frustration. Of course, we need to evaluate this thoroughly. Of course, there will be a parliamentary survey and we will discuss all the OVV reports separately and so on. All of that has to happen. At the same time, however, there is now a concern among different groups. If we don't start drawing lessons from this right now, I'll know how it's gonna be in the next summer. In that case, society's support will indeed be lost, even if there may be another wave later and we may have to take action; I hope not. So we must make sure that we make these processes better and that we restore confidence in science and politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u45	As I said, I agreed with what Mr Hijink said. And I also agree with what Mrs Westerveld said. Let us indeed use this debate to ensure, in this coronal period, that, as soon as the OMT has been popularly said, we should, as I said, set up this kind of expectations and make agreements with each other. I couldn't agree more. Part of that will not happen immediately, because the position and implementation of the OMT are also partly regulated in the Public Health Act. I think that we are almost Chamberwide somewhat 'frustrated' here. I use Mrs Westerveld's word about the fact that there is no new proposal yet. So yes, you will find me on your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u46	We're about to start over in this interrupting circle. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u47	Looks that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u48	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u49	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I am deeply concerned about the VVD and the way the VVD acts. Mrs Tielen says here on behalf of the VVD: 'it has the appearance and it doesn't look good'. But it does not only question the results of the researchers of Nieuwsuur, and the hard facts they have been given in black and white, but also very literally the research of the Research Council on Security. The chairman of the OVV, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, said that the Ministry not only asked enlightening questions, but also influenced things, especially when it comes to those mouth caps. So is Mrs Tielen also saying here that she doesn't actually take the independent, large-scale, comprehensive report of the OVV seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u50	I've, seriously, just quoted from the OVV report, related to that roll resistance. I feel like I'm talking Chinese, or I don't know what language. I've felt there's a miscommunication somewhere. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u51	So that communication is in the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u52	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u53	We are dealing with a VVD that does not say: "The evidence from the Wob requests, which have been brought up by Nieuwsuur, is on the table. The facts are on the table because of the large-scale investigation of the Security Research Council. There's been a scam. It is not just enlightening questions that have been asked by the VWS Ministry, and the Minister has misinformed the Chamber in his first weeks as Minister." None of that says the VVD. The VVD says: yes, it is unclear, it does not look good and it has the appearance of... The communication of the VVD shows that the VVD just gets more and more rotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u54	These are, for example, words from Mrs Agema that I would never choose, not even the other way around. I think we choose our own tone here, our own words and our own language. By the way, I do not entirely agree with the people who say that I speak in riddles, although the recommendation of the OVV has been expressed with words that I sometimes find complicated. I don't know why Mrs. Agema is worried, but I think she should do a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u55	I'm actually starting to want to see the next speaker, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u56	I'm going to ask one question, Mr. Chairman, and I won't do it in two. If we can believe the VVD, it's up to the receiver, it's always up to the other. We're used to that happening all the time in two years of corona policy. But I was triggered by the fact that Mrs. Tielen spoke of trust in science. And yes, we share that trust with Mrs Tielen, to name but one thing in common. But on the basis of these influenced opinions, the VVD Group has come to a decision and on that basis it has shown voting behaviour here in the Chamber. We're talking about trust in science. How does Mrs Tielen feel about confidence in politics? The VVD Group has a greater responsibility because it is the largest group here in Parliament. How, according to Mrs Tielen, did that VVD group contribute to confidence in politics by criticising zero in the past on all those OMT opinions? How did the VVD Group contribute to the confidence in politics because it has always followed these OMT advices with no alarm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u57	By the way, last year's confidence in science gained a 7.4. That confidence has increased since the start of the corona crisis. And the confidence in the House of Representatives got a 6.0. These figures are indeed much lower than those for confidence in science. But that figure for trust in the House of Representatives has also increased since the corona crisis. I would also like to share those positive developments. Mr. Kuzu, I'm not sure what you're asking me to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u58	Shall I repeat it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u59	No, no, no. Mrs Tielen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u60	No. You're talking about "responsibility at the VVD." Yeah, I feel that responsibility, too. And in my opinion, the VVD is much inclined to believe that the choices we make here in this house are well based on scientific insights. Mr. Kuzu says: yes, but the VVD has made all kinds of decisions on the basis of OMT advice. Yes, and rightly so! Because the vast majority of those OMT opinions were just really good advice. And they sometimes led to political decisions that were very difficult. They were sometimes difficult and they could sometimes be revoked. We have had extensive debates on this. And we try to look at that critically, with a cool head and a warm heart. Let's do that again when Corona gets back on his feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u61	I get a lot of answers, but I don't answer the question I ask. So I will put the question in one sentence: do you think that during the last two years of the corona crisis the VVD Group has contributed to confidence in politics or, in fact, I have contributed more to the process of taking confidence in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u62	I am convinced that the VVD, with all its energy and commitment, has also made its small and very modest contribution to confidence in politics, but has certainly contributed. I hope the same goes for Mr. Kuzu's fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u63	It is good to see that more and more parties are finally seeing that the OMT is not independent now that it has been demonstrated that Mr Van Dissel is impressionable. Mrs Tielen does not want to go that far as the VVD speaker. It is in all sorts of turns not to say that there is political influence, but it has acknowledged that this appearance has at least been awakened. Now, in the caselaw, when it appears that a judge is not independent or impartial, it is sufficient to replace that judge. It will then be avenged and replaced, precisely because independence and impartiality must be beyond any doubt. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that it is also of the utmost importance for a person like Jaap van Dissel that his independence is beyond any doubt, and that it is sufficient to replace Mr Van Dissel when the appearance of dependence has been aroused?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u64	If we want to make a comparison with the case law, another good thing is that someone is innocent until proven guilty. But I wouldn't want to make that comparison at all, because you can't compare a judge in a criminal case or in a different trial with the role of president of the OMT. Sorry, I do not agree with Mr Van Meijeren's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u65	In my view, independence and impartiality must be beyond any doubt. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that in this case Mr Van Dissel's independence and impartiality should be beyond any doubt, even if this happens to be the case in the case of justice? Does she therefore agree with me that Jaap van Dissel should at least not be dependent or biased and that this appearance should not be awakened?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u66	That someone is independent or impartial is a big conclusion. And "every doubt" I find a very big stain that Mr. Van Meijeren wants to throw on that. I think that over the last two years we have had enormous doubts about everything in the corona pandemic. If we had to take the other turn in every doubt, we would be in a much worse position at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u67	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u68	Yeah, rounding it up. I find it worrying, because it is the same Jaap van Dissel who now, again for inexplicable reasons, advises to put the monkey pox on list A. How can we trust that there has not been any influence? The fact that Mrs Tielen is okay with Mr Van Dissel going on and on, and perhaps this whole circus is going to repeat itself, is a great shame to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u69	It's Mr. Van Meijeren's right to find anything a disgrace again. I would also appreciate it if we could just talk from functions rather than from opinions. That is the importance of the independence, transparency and clarity of opinions, in order to find out whether or not they are. Well, let's make that a little bit better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u70	Mrs Tielen talks about appearances and says that a lot has happened around them, that it is not nice and that good OMT opinions finally come out. But I don't think that's going to get us anywhere. I should therefore like to reverse the question: does Mrs Tielen think that the Chamber has finally seen independent OMT opinions and that Minister De Jonge, when he defended them, has genuinely informed the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u71	When I look at the total of OMT opinions given throughout the period, my aftertaste is that they are independent advice. The fact that there are elements in it is something that I have already mentioned, which could make you doubt it, that there is an appearance: that will certainly be. But I am convinced that the overall package, the vast majority, is independent and based on science.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u72	But I'm not asking about the whole thing. Then let me make it specific. It's said here, by VWS, "You're not responding to my last e-mail, so I don't know if you've seen it. Would you like to add this sentence?" Then comes the sentence: "The use of pbm as a precaution in patients who do not have a (suspect on) COVID-19 is not necessary and is not desirable in view of the persistent scarcity of bpm." This is a specific sentence to be added to the OMT opinion. So again, does Mrs Tielen think that the Chamber has seen independent OMT opinions with this? As far as the whole picture is concerned, I really believe that everyone has done so with the best of intentions. On this point, however, there has been specifically an untruthful, weird and non-independent OMT opinion submitted to the Chamber, and defended?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u73	Now Mr Van Haga says both "opinions" and "opinion." This is the specific example that I have just referred to and which I say: well, is that unwanted influence? Maybe that conclusion's too soon, but it looks like it does. But in total... When Mr. Van Haga says "in total OMT opinions," I think that's independent. But this is specifically one that you may have doubts about. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u74	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u75	"Doubt"? I would ask Mrs Tielen to be more specific about this. There's no doubt about this. This advice has been influenced, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u76	That's your conclusion. Mr. Chairman. I already referred to my motion. It's about the independence of the OVV. I am actually curious whether the Minister is already translating that motion and the recommendations of the OVV into policy. If so, when can we, as a Chamber, take part in this decision? I expect the Minister to say yes, and in the short term. Because as I said, in this coronal period, we have to repair the roof while the sun shines. After all, I'm sure we still need OMT advice. I think we should now determine what the next OMT looks like ideally, based on what we have learned about its composition over the past two years, also in comparison with other countries. We also need to ensure that the OMT provides independent and autonomous scientific advice on the basis of which the cabinet submits its decisions to the Chamber weighted, informed and transparently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u77	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u78	Thank you, Mr President. We are now conducting this debate as a result of the good research work done by Nieuwsuur. My compliments on that. From that moment on, of course, there are questions about the OMT advice, independence and what exactly happened. I would therefore like to thank the Minister and the Ministry for making public all the e-mails and annexes containing suggestions for text at the request of the Chamber. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this issue should also be included in the parliamentary inquiry. I refer to the decision-making structures, formal and informal, and specifically the place of OMT and the desirability of other advisory bodies in a long-term health crisis. Then to what it's like now. The formal roles of the OMT and the BAO. How's it formalized? RIVM has written out the method of national advice on infectious diseases, threats and crises. I read there that the OMT consults confidentially and can discuss Members freely. Both the report and the opinion are presented to OMT members in draft for additions and factual inaccuracies. If there is no unanimity, the different views are reflected in the opinion. This advice is offered to the administrative coordination consultation, the BAO. This consultation makes an assessment of administrative and political feasibility. That's the Minister's advice. It is then up to the Ministry of the Interior of VWS to take a decision. Can the Minister confirm that this was the procedural procedure? Can he explain how the suggestions contained in the OMT documents relate to the procedural process as we have recorded? Where do those text suggestions from the VWS Department fit into the process? I don't see that possibility yet, but I'd like to hear the explanation. Moreover, when we read this occasionally we see suggestions that are not only enlightening, but which one might think: this has political implications that are about content and where consequences can be? How does the Minister see this undesirable mix-up, especially when officials write sentences like "it would be good for us," "this goes much further than the cabinet put out last week" or "this does not do justice to all the efforts of the GGD to increase testing capacity"? In my group's view, these are not enlightening suggestions. These are suggestions for better landing of the text. I understand the government's concern very well given the whole crisis and how something lands in the country. But doesn't it have to do with having communication and behavioral scientists at some point think about what you advise as a cabinet? How does the Minister view that? Indeed, the path chosen here is undermining the authority of the OMT opinion. Mr. Chairman. Several colleagues have already mentioned the first part of the OVV report and the recommendations on rolling mix. I would also like to mention here that the perspective of the fight against infectious disease has become too dominant during the crisis. Looking back, we can find things about that. We're gonna do that, but we're gonna have to look forward. I see that Mr Hijink is ready for an interruption. You're gonna let me go first, Mr. Chairman. What a mercy! The Segers motion, which called for the OMT opinion not to be left alone, but rather for an IMT, a social advice, to be added to it, was widely supported. In 2020, that motion was already in the Chamber, but in the process of drawing up these social advices, it was always behind. I ask the cabinet to speed this up, because this will have to be ready next autumn. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group has stated that the involvement of the VWS ministry in OMT's recommendations can only take place as far as we are concerned if there is also a procedure agreed in the Chamber. It seems that this is not the case here, but I would very much like to hear the Minister's reaction first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u79	You're buzzing through your time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u80	Yeah, really. It's not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u81	I welcome Mrs Bikker's clear language. She is a lot clearer than the VVD when it comes to those suggestions that have been made, namely that it is more than asking questions. It is also a question of providing very concrete, sometimes political, suggestions for the OMT opinion. I'm glad she mentions that. She also describes the procedure that is then followed, so who gets that advice in what steps, and doesn't see a place like the SP where all kinds of suggestions and questions can be made via some sort of informal channel. Does she agree with the SP that this informal route should be completely closed? So we have to leave the advice with the RIVM and the OMT. Then it is up to politics to do what they want to do with it. If there are any further questions, this should be done openly after the end of that opinion and not through a kind of tunnel that the House of Representatives, but also the people, have no idea about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u82	When I look back at those two years, my analysis is that the OMT advice has become extremely dominant. I also know how that went in our own group: you did not dare to deviate from the OMT advice. I understand there was also a search from the cabinet. If the OMT advice is so dominant, then deviating from it is a very complicated one, also because you cannot fully oversee the health consequences. At least that seems to me to be the case. So I also understand that from the Ministry there was an anxious look at what was in such an OMT advice and what that meant. In my view, that is precisely why it is important to show what the various scientific opinions are, and not just what the epidemiological picture is. I therefore refer again to the IMT. I also see that there is a tension in the Ministry between, for example, dealing with scarcity of personal protective equipment and what is medically justified. That's how it works. That is probably what one would like in such an OMT advice I estimate, but well, that is to say, that is to put it together. So yes, I agree that the OMT opinion must be absolutely scientific advice, but as a political opinion we have a responsibility to create the political space that you can weigh up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u83	I fully agree with the latter. I think it is also true that the OMT opinion, certainly from the cabinet side, has been declared too sacred at some point, which has unfortunately also killed the entire political debate here on a regular basis. This means, however, that we must not wait for the parliamentary inquiry to come to an agreement with the Minister on how we are going to do this differently from now on, in the months to come, or perhaps for years to come, for as long as it is necessary. I would like to table a motion in the second term to agree now that there will no longer be any correction proposals from the Ministry towards the OMT in order to be removed from those OMT opinions. If there is uncertainty, if there is a dt-check to be done, I think RIVM can do the same myself. We really don't need the VWS officials for that, no matter how good they might be at it. Is Mrs Bikker prepared to support that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u84	I would, of course, like to see the proposal completely first and also hear the Minister's reply. To be honest, I think that the OMT has been set up... I have also looked at what that institutional decision is and what it is based on. That's the lawyer in me. Of course, the OMT itself also has to guard that it is independent; otherwise it will also be placed in a complicated position. I see a role-playing role-playing role-playing role-playing role-playing role-playing role-playing But here, as a chamber, we address the minister. I don't mind if there's some sort of spelling error. That is always useful to all of us. However, I absolutely agree that it should not be the case that, for example, a discussion about the medical need versus the availability of devices leads to a weakening of an OMT opinion. Then leave the facts and the problems clearly on the table. So you hear a constructive tone in that. But given the position of the BAO, I also await what the Minister says about this. If I put all the procedures side by side, I'm not exactly getting out of there. Maybe I missed a piece of the puzzle. So I'd like to weigh that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u85	In my opinion, these are fine critical words from the Christian Union: very good. I found it difficult to put Mrs Bikker's words about letting countries into society. As if changing that OMT advice had nothing to do with letting that message land in society. On that point, I hope for a clarification, because I think that is too thin. It was indeed about adapting an opinion on whether or not to use mouth caps in a nursing home. Those were political-strategic considerations that have had consequences. I think I see in non-verbal communication that it's different than I've heard. But I am still curious about the words of that. I do not think that countries should be allowed to do so in relation to what those adjustments were to the OMT opinion. Does Mrs Bikker agree? Then I'll ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u86	I'm always trying to do that, too. That's what the lawyer in me is trying to do. They were all working there under high voltage. At the moment we can talk very quietly about mouth caps because you can buy a lot of mouth caps for one euro at any store. But at that time there was a very large deficit. We also know from all kinds of care workers that they had to work unprotected. So I understand very well that that was a huge sensitivity. At the Ministry, too, this gave rise to tension: what is the OMT opinion going to say about this? However, as a ministry, you should not then change an OMT advice in such a way that it affects the awareness of medical necessity or availability. That's where the tension is. I asked the Minister about that. Looking to the future, I've asked how we're going to prevent that. From the final weighing, how we weigh this one suggestion in the OMT opinion back then, I honestly need the broader picture. There is much more communication: between experts and anyone else. That will follow a parliamentary survey. It's very good that we're gonna keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u87	That's a clear answer, you know. I had one other question. I am curious to see Mrs Bikker's view on this. It is about the fact that in recent years there have been real statements from the Ministry and by the former Minister of Health that the OMT opinions were always independent. It has been said that the OMT is completely independent. It has been said that no own additions have been made, no changes have been made. In any case, these statements do not inspire confidence in our group. You can see now that it's not actually true. I am curious about the vision of Mrs Bikker or the Christian Union. How should we reconcile these statements with what we see in Nieuwsuur, also in view of the compliments I heard from Mrs Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u88	It is not for nothing that I have put down in my speech the inconvenience of the fact that a number of opinions have been amended and adopted with political implications, which have implications for the choices that the cabinet subsequently made and which have been made in the Chamber. But when I look at all 144 opinions with track changes, I see that there are also a lot of opinions where I can absolutely say: this is only clarification or correction of a dt error. I absolutely think we should learn those lessons. I do not want to justify this mix-up, which is also noted by the OVV. But as a Chamber, let us look out for the entire work of the OMT, in which experts have been trying so intensely for two years to advise us in the very best scientific way, as colored advice. I do not think that is right either, looking at the changes that have been made. But it is not for nothing that I have mentioned the examples of which I say: sorry, Minister, but it seems to me that this goes beyond an enlightening suggestion of text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u89	Mrs Bikker wants to make a constructive proposal to the Chamber, in which she wants to regulate the influence of OMT opinions. But I'd like to convince her that that's the wrong path. A whole number of years ago, an opinion came from the Dutch Health Institute that the orphan medicines for Pompe and Fabry had to be removed from the package. That didn't quite land well either, of course. But I remember when former Minister Schippers said, "Well, Healthcare Institute, thank you for your advice, but I'm not gonna do it." That's exactly the status that an OMT advice has. In a healthy situation, the OMT delivers an opinion and the cabinet does something with it or not. So the moment the OMT said to want mouth caps in the nursing homes, VWS could have just said, "Thank you for your advice, but we're short on protective equipment, so we're gonna make an opinion out of it." It would have been open and transparent. Now we see that, because of what happened, a kind of sneaky, lying atmosphere surrounding the use of those personal protective equipment has arisen. So I hope that Mrs Bikker will reconsider her proposal and that she is prepared to take what I have just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u90	Of course, I've also been thinking about what is a wise sequel and also about how you look back now. There are also aspects in the OMT opinion that the cabinet has never taken on board enough in my opinion. That's about giving free self-tests. It's about information in certain urban areas. I would have liked to have seen the cabinet say at the time... In my view you say "amen" and you will do so. Anyway, that didn't happen. So, yeah, there's a tension field in there. But I think it is important that the OMT opinion is clear in its composition: who is sitting there and what advice do they give to the cabinet? That was very clearly medical-epidemiologically oriented, when I look at the founding pieces. As a result, infectious disease control also had the primate. That is also what we call Chamber. We had a completely unknown disease; that was a search for everyone. Even the Forum for Democracy had very different views at that time than later. So everyone's been looking for what kind of disease is this, and how am I supposed to understand that? I think that is something we should also weigh when we look back at that time. That is why I say that some things can only be weighed in the parliamentary survey. Looking ahead, I think it is important that the cabinet does indeed receive an independent scientific OMT advice, which is also clear from which direction it is coming. That's more like the medical epidemiological direction. We now know what other social consequences this has, which we have weighed and appointed in various debates. I am talking, for example, about young people and mental resilience. These are things in which, in my opinion, other advices from social and social behavioral scientists and other movements must be weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u92	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your mercy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u93	Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt spoke just now about the sound recordings of the OMT meetings. Then I spontaneously felt sorry for the Members of Parliament who are going to have to do the parliamentary survey and do the search in a huge pile of tweets and photos of ministers and administrators posing for piles of just-entered mouth caps, but who are no longer able to get into the meetings and who are no longer able to listen to the meetings of perhaps the most important platform we have had in this crisis. To be honest, I find it rather painful that it happened this way. Why is the debate we are having today important? That has already been said by several people. At the beginning of the crisis, March-April 2020, we saw a major error in the use of personal protective equipment, particularly in nursing homes. The SP pointed this out very often at the time and often asked to ensure that preventive protective equipment could be used in these nursing homes. But that just didn't happen and didn't happen. Each time this was defended by the cabinet with this motivation: look at the OMT opinion, because the OMT is not proposing this either; look at the directive proposed by the OMT, which states that preventive use is not really necessary. We now know that these OMT opinions, especially in this case, have been modified and changed on the proposal of the Ministry itself. We must therefore now observe that, at the time when we were talking here in the Chamber about measures proposed by the OMT, those measures were, in some cases, put in through the back door by the cabinet itself. So we had ended up in a kind of circle and couldn't actually make an objective assessment of what exactly was science and what exactly was politics. That is a very big problem for us. There are other examples. The OMT warned at some point: "Beware of relaxing. In fact, we can't talk about that as long as the supplies for testing and the capacity to do well for source and contact research are not yet in order. Actually, you can't talk about relaxing." What did the cabinet, or the ministry, then make of that? "Can't you write that down so that it becomes some kind of observation instead of a warning?" That's what happens next. It was said about the spread of the virus in secondary schools that it could lead to large-scale spread, after which the Ministry e-mails to the OMT: "wide-scale" sounds very violent and threatening; can't you make it "upper-regional"? Next, the OMT opinion says "upper regional." That kind of influence is more than a suggestion, more than a question and more than clarification. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mrs Tielen. Mrs Bikker was very clear about that. This is more than enlightenment. This is political influence. That's what we should call it. That brings me to the proposal I would like to make today. I want to do that in the second term. I hope that a motion for a resolution will not even be necessary and that the Minister will now be able to undertake the following. We're just not gonna do that anymore. We give the OMT the space and the freedom to draw up the opinions themselves. If they need a spell check, there's plenty of sensible people working to do it. Then the advice goes to the government and the House of Representatives at the same time and becomes public. If there are any additional questions, the Minister can send a note in a few sentences: "Dear OMT people, we do not understand what is on page 3. Can you explain that again?" He can do that very well and very quickly. Then we get a note back from the OMT with "this is what we kind of mean." I think that is a very simple way of working and we can agree today to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u95	Thank you. Then there is Mrs van der Plas, from the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. President and citizens of the Netherlands. It's March 2020. Covid is in the Netherlands. A concerned daughter contacted the management of the nursing home where her father was staying. The daughter was worried about her vulnerable father. Despite that covid infected many elderly people, no further action was taken. There was no danger according to the board, because government policy was followed. There was no need for protective equipment. On April 9, 2020, she was at the deathbed of her father. The diagnosis? COVID-19. The man died the same day. The next day, an employee of the nursing home called. He had worked with this man for two weeks without protection, and he was afraid he was also infected. Since the home had been quarantined for five weeks, children and grandchildren had to swing for the windows to their parents and grandpa's and grandma's. It was clear that the infection had occurred internally. Can the Minister imagine how this woman, as well as many other relatives, felt, knowing that ministry officials were afraid of a run on mouth caps and that they have therefore adapted the OMT advice? What words does the minister have for next of kin like this lady? Would there have been any other action if the OMT recommendation had not been amended? Would the nursing home have acted differently? Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt asked Parliament questions about the use of personal protective equipment and, in answering questions about liability, the Minister referred to the duty of care in the labour law. I find that a little easy. In fact, health care organisations who bought protective equipment themselves at the time were thrown away by the minister at the time. The Minister even called it "inappropriate" at one of the many press conferences. What you make cannot be used by anyone else, the then minister literally bit an entrepreneur through the cameras. Mr. Chairman. The documents made public show a constant interference from the Ministry with the OMT opinions, not only to redirect advice to something that was better suited to the Minister, but also to clean up his own street. When it comes to the many deaths in nursing homes, for example, the Ministry has added the sentence: "The spread in nursing homes was not only due to insufficient testing and mouth masks, but also because Corona had an atypical appearance in elderly people." Actually, it was the elderly themselves. I find it utterly embarrassing. If the government is going to interfere with the content of advice from the field of work and adjust it, we might as well stop asking these advices. I think there's been a crossroads here. There has been far-reaching influence, so that we have not been able to make a proper balance here in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have already been asked. I agree with that. I would also like to know how things will be different in the future. How do we get the guarantee that this will either never happen again or that the Chamber will be properly and properly informed about everything that happens in the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u97	Thank you. Mr Goudswaard, from the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u98	Mr. Chairman. In a healthy administrative culture, directors, officials and advisers are aware of their position and their role. A crisis situation is no excuse to mess around. The Minister is not even supposed to create the impression of meddling. Does the Minister recognise that opinions, whether or not they are followed, should simply not be changed? Mr. Chairman. For JA21 it is basically about a healthy administrative culture, but the culture was that interference was more obvious than not. The Security Research Council describes how incredibly opaque everything went. I quote: "The result of the complex crisis structure and the network relations between the Ministry and the care field is that factors such as coincidence (who affects whom), personal networks and goodwill will play a role consciously or unconsciously." At the moment when it is necessary, the culture around the crisis structure invites interference. This culture rises from the appendages of 414 pages with questions and text suggestions from the ministry of VWS. Just as serious is the willingness to be re-directed. Take the mail exchange of March 30, 2020. In the midst of a fierce social and political discussion about whether or not to proceed to a strict lockdown, the OMT advises not to do so. Instead, we want to examine whether telephone data can be used to gain insight into the mobility of Dutch people and thus to the extent that the measures taken at that time are followed up. A VWS official emails back: "Does this have to be done already?" From the RIVM is emailed back: "Is it true that you want to delete the whole paragraph about the lockdown, or just a part?" The answer from VWS is that only the sentence on the phone data needs to be changed. This is a sign. For how is it possible that the removal of a paragraph about the lockdown, the hot iron at the time, can be im Frage at all, I ask the Minister. What does it say about culture and interrelationships that something like that is obviously interpreted as a normal request? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a simple concluding question to this minister. Does he recognise that terms such as "questions" and "text suggestions" conceal the possibility of only one conclusion, namely that there was indeed interference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u99	Thank you. Then Mrs Paulusma, from the group of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u100	Thank you, Mr President. The OMT has an important role to play in advising on corona measures. The OMT shall do so on the basis of scientific, medical and virological knowledge. I agree with the compliments that Mr Kuzu made earlier to the OMT. I would add that it is also extremely valuable that we have so much knowledge at our disposal in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. It is important that the OMT can give its advice independently. In doing so, the value of the opinion is also clear. The OMT advises on the basis of scientific insights and the cabinet then weighs the political interests. Any signal of interference in the OMT opinion, by anyone, must therefore be avoided, precisely so that the opinion remains pure from the point of view of science. What happened doesn't deserve a beauty prize. Officials should stay away from this opinion, even when it comes to well-intentioned suggestions, because any appearance of interference is too much. But I also understand that it was a crisis. The OMT has been rigged up and they had to find a way to relate to each other. However, I would like to stress once again that the OMT must be able to draw up its opinions independently and independently. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what protocols there are now in order to ensure that independence is also guaranteed. Is it now in order and has this also been a conversation with the OMT? Mr. Chairman. Good advice also comes with good support, and I read in the reply that this has been in order for a long time. I want to know what the Minister means by this. Since when? And what has been done to take care of this? Are we sure the OMT now has sufficient support to operate completely independently? I would like to hear a comprehensive reply from the Minister. There's always something to learn, especially in a crisis like this. Will the Minister therefore undertake to evaluate and strengthen the working methods of the protocols wherever necessary, and will he also include in the investigation whether the OMT is sufficiently supported to enable it to carry out its tasks with care, precision and independence? Of course, the same applies to MIT. This will have an important role to play, which must be filled in independently. How will the Minister integrate MIT into these protocols? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. Corona's not gone yet. In fact, we have to learn to live with it and the virus can turn its head anytime. We therefore need the advice of institutions such as the OMT and the MIT permanently. I therefore call on the Minister to get to work quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u101	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u102	Mrs Paulusma mentioned protocols, and I wonder what she means by that. You can have a protocol to make an OMT opinion before it becomes public or goes to the cabinet to influence, ask questions, make suggestions etc. You can also have a protocol to ask questions after that, so after it has been published, if, for example, a clarification on page 3 or footnote 4 is needed. That's two different things. Does Mrs Paulusma think that you should have a protocol on questions, suggestions, etc. in advance, so for publication, disclosure, or that you should have a protocol for afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u103	I want a protocol to be drawn up so that the OMT or MIT can issue an independent opinion and we do not have to discuss whether or not it has been sent in a particular direction in this Chamber. And I want that protocol to be transparent, so that we know where we stand with each other, but also society, because that is what we are talking about when it comes to trust, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u104	Yeah, but that's not exactly an answer to the question. My question is: do you have to have a protocol after publication? You can do that; then you can arrange a very quick procedure. For example, the OMT publishes its advice on the website, which goes to the Chamber et cetera, and then there may be a protocol whereby officials, at the request of the minister, for example, ask enlightening questions about exactly what the OMT means by that. Next, there is a reaction from the OMT in all openness. If that were in the front, I'd be very opposed to that. And why? Because we'll be back here in six months because there is a protocol, but you can still ask a question or make a suggestion with that protocol before it's published. Then we're in exactly the same situation. So I think D66 will have to agree with the SP that this openness should be there and that this must mean that the OMT always publishes first and that questions can only be asked afterwards if something is not clear. I hope D66 agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u105	As I mentioned in my speech, the role clarity, so who has what role, must be super clear. I think that is what a number of my fellow Members have already referred to. I want a protocol to contribute to clarity, transparency and the role of the Chamber. The point is that we can control what actually happened and was said so that we stay out of the discussion about appearances of influence and about what happened at what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u106	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u107	Mr President, I also think you will hear that there will be no answer to the question, which I find regrettable because we can make good agreements on this tonight. A protocol isn't gonna solve this problem. It is about what is then in it and what exactly is the procedure when it comes to making the OMT opinion public and possibly asking questions or making suggestions, although I do not think you should do so at all. You can ask questions about exactly what it says and what it means. I can also imagine that the government sometimes has such a question, but in the opinion of the SP that should always be after publication. I just want that question answered by D66. Does D66 think that you should also be able to come up with questions and suggestions or does D66 think that you should only be able to ask questions afterwards? A very easy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u108	I think I gave an easy answer, too. We must stay out of this discussion and not get back into it when it comes to influence, otherwise it will harm society and we will only talk about mistrust and what seems to have gone wrong. So we want a protocol that describes how things work and in which we can also rely on transparency so that we know how a number of things work and where things are invested. I have also put a number of questions to the Minister. So I'm waiting for his answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u109	I think it's a bit of a double message. About protocols we have heard Mrs Bikker ask some very good questions. But more importantly, Mrs Paulusma says that the OMT should operate independently and that we should stay out of the discussion about appearances and then it is said again: yes, but it was a crisis. In the article of Nieuwsuur, a number of points from those 414 pages have been mentioned in which there really was talk of changing advice. Is that an appearance or is that because the Ministry was actually interfering in the content of its opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u110	Maybe it could be both. You can look back on the past period and say: it was a crisis, and that is why there has been a certain way of acting and reacting. At the same time you can also say: if we look back on the past period, it has to be better and different. That is why we also ask questions about protocols, transparency, clarity. Those things can exist side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u111	When we look at the changes, sometimes it's about words: "Greatly sounds very ominous." Sometimes it is about things that may be advised but are not feasible in practice, and are therefore adapted. Then we're not talking about appearances anymore, are we? Then we're just talking about opinions being affected, aren't we? If Mrs Paulusma puts the importance of science at the forefront, as she points out in other debates, and if she says that the OMT should operate independently, then she cannot insist that there is appearance here? What would then have to be done to ensure, in the short term, that we set it up differently, so that we restore confidence in both science and politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u112	I totally agree with Mrs Westerveld. I think there is a huge task to restore that confidence. That is why I make a number of suggestions. I have also put a number of questions to the Minister. 'Cause about it having to be better, we both agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u113	A protocol for the future is nice and nice, but of course we know D66 as a fantastic, transparent party. Here's what I'm wondering. What if mistakes are made and it's not just about appearances? If it is indeed the case that mistakes have been made, does D66 think that there is a need to be accounted for, that a fine should be imposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u114	I think that there is a great deal to be said about "fee." I am very pleased that, as a Chamber, we are going to instruct a parliamentary committee of inquiry to look into this. That also brings a lot of facts. In the two-minute debate, a number of suggestions have also been made to improve the work of this parliamentary committee of inquiry. I'll wait for those results.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u115	Ten times in a store, if I'm gonna take care of something neatly and then steal something once, I'm still a thief. The point is that in this particular case there have been demonstrably manipulated OMT opinions. There's a sentence in it that's demonstrably biked. Even if that only happened once... What if that means that the conclusion must be drawn that the Chamber has indeed been deceived in that case and that the Minister will admit that later on, I expect the Minister to bow down. D66 is prepared to take the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u116	I'm going to repeat my answer, around that "do penance" or other words to give it an explanation. We have a parliamentary committee of inquiry for a reason. That is a very heavy instrument. In addition, this is a subject. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna go through that process first. That's what we agreed on. We're not doing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u117	Finally, Mr President. I didn't agree to anything. We are having a debate here about influencing the OMT opinions, which were supposedly independent and did not turn out to be. Then we can say here that it does not matter what we are doing here because we are waiting for the parliamentary inquiry, but that is not the purpose of this debate. So again, if it turns out that those OMT opinions have been influenced and that the Chamber has indeed been misled, will D66 just sit and wait? Or is there going to be any consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u118	These are Mr. Van Haga's conclusions regarding deception and influence. I agree with the story of the suggestions, but I am open to the results of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u119	I was curious to see what Mrs Paulusma thought was a sham. What's "appearance"? What's that? I think we're really talking here about things that have come up that have been proven. Earlier in the debate, it was also mentioned that there was some sort of appearance in what happened. But what does Mrs Paulusma mean by appearances? So what is the definition of appearance? "It looks like it." That's how I'm gonna fill it out. Does Mrs. Paulusma really think this is a sham? Does Mrs. Paulusma really think this is a sham?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u120	May I answer, Mr. Chairman? "Fine" is a very loaded word here in the Chamber. I have mentioned several times that "suggestions" have been made. That could put you on the same page as "the appearance of." I would like to join in the reaction that suggestions have been made towards the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u121	Yes. They've just been taken over without a hitch. I don't think they're suggestions. But I am not talking about the word "appearance" that we use here in the Chamber. I'm just talking about the Dutch word "shape," which is in the Fat Van Dale. It says what is "appearance" and what are "facts." Something turns out to be like that or something seems to be like that. That's a big difference. When I hear Mrs Paulusma here, I actually listen to her say: it seems that it has happened, but we have to wait and see. But we hear that very often here: yes, but there will be another debate about that, we do not need to do that now. We hear: there will be another debate on the OVV; we should not do that here, because there will be another debate later. And there will soon be a parliamentary committee of inquiry. But the question that Mr Van Haga also asked is quite right. So many things have come up in the past few months: do not inform the Chamber, withhold information. That's what we're here for today. Then there has to be a point... I really don't want to provoke Mrs Paulusma to support a motion of censure, but there has to be a point where D66 or Mrs Paulusma says: listen, boys, I just can't sell this anymore? We saw at the CDA that Mrs Keijzer did that in the cabinet at the time. Unfortunately, that's what got her fired. So I'm just curious how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u122	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u123	Back to the subject of the debate: the possible influence of the cabinet in the OMT opinions. Our observation, also looking at the pieces that are not complete, is that suggestions have been made. I do not agree with Mrs Van der Plas' conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u124	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u125	Yeah, rounding it up. I conclude that Mrs Paulusma also does not believe what is written in the Dutch media, because they have brought it up. Anyway, that's my conclusion. That's okay; your own words, your own conclusions. But I did have one more question about the protocols. What do you mean "in general," so you, Mrs. Pauluma, by "drafting a protocol"? For example, a professor of health law has said that the minister has actually violated the law. Why do you have to draw up a protocol for something that should just be normal behavior, something that should just go by the law? We don't need protocol for that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u126	Mrs Van der Plas then confuses a number of things. What I want is for it to be clear how the procedure with the OMT and the cabinet works, when things are clear, how we can ensure transparency and how we can keep the role of the Chamber as strong as possible. This must be transparent and transparent for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u127	In a parliamentary inquiry or scientific investigation into the government's action in the corona crisis, which is undoubtedly going to happen, you want that to be clear how decision-making took place, who has taken a decision. You don't want to say with the wisdom of afterwards "oh, but I still did that," just like we'll probably have a lot of people tomorrow night who know better than the referee. It always happens, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u128	Is there soccer tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u129	There's Feyenoord tomorrow. If you look closely at the programme, you will see that the Chamber does not meet by accident in the evening. I think that was accidentally taken into account at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u130	Well, there's a debate on medical care until 11:00 tomorrow night.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u131	I didn't sign up for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u132	Too bad! Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u133	You want it traceable. You want to see who made a decision on the basis of what information. Then you're just gonna look: did that go well and could it have been better? When I look at it, it went like this: the OMT wrote an opinion. There were suggestions, appearances, text suggestions and everything. Then it went to the BAO. Then it went to the Catshuis meeting, where no minutes were made. In the meantime, everyone was messing with each other, but what the Prime Minister did, we really have no idea. For example, there is no app known from the Prime Minister to Mr Bruls, who was chairman of the Security Council. Is it still possible in the eyes of D66 to reconstruct decision-making at crucial moments of the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u134	I think Mr. Ommzigt is asking a very fair question here. I think that's a question that also comes with a crisis. That's how I started part of my speech: there are things done that you say afterwards "we should have done differently." I don't think everything's traceable anymore. That is why I am also making a number of proposals to ensure that we change this as soon as possible. Because I share your concern, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u135	Thank you, but it is very serious what we conclude here. It's not about the fact that there's been a mistake somewhere in the execution; that's normal. It is not the case that a piece was accidentally lost once, because that too happens in times of crisis. I'm all pretty lenient about that. But we're dealing here with two years of Catshuis counseling in which no minutes have been made. We're dealing with two years of OMT recordings, all of which have been erased. We're dealing with two years and a half text a week from the Prime Minister in the corona crisis. Well, we know how hard he works, so there really were a few more. And it's untraceable. What, then, is D66 proposing to ensure that, from now on, as should be the case in the democratic rule of law, we can trace back how the policy has come about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u136	Thank you. I think I have just made a number of proposals for this. I just think, tasting a little where Mr. Omtzigt is going, we're not going to be able to completely agree on what's supposed to come out in the open. As far as I am concerned, this should be as optimal as possible, but above all we should learn what went wrong in the last two years, and then do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u137	It's not about public access. I understand very well that Cabinet minutes at the time they are made are not public. I also understand that the OMT's individual opinions are not public at the time, otherwise it will harm the assembly. That's why those recordings or literal records need to be there, so you can reconstruct it afterwards. That is also why none of us here said: make everything, who does what when, public at that time. Because then you won't get a free meeting in the cabinet. It has clashed in the cabinet between the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs, who said "open the case" and the Minister of VWS, who said: I have a problem in the care. That's the spirit. It's not a big deal. I say it's not traceable. Let me tell you one thing, Mr. Chairman. Only drawing up a protocol on how the OMT should work can make sense, but does not lead to traceability. So I ask the D66 spokesperson: what action does D66 propose, so that from now on we can reconstruct in a next wave afterwards? Does this mean that texts need to be saved? Does it mean that the Cat House needs to be beaten? Does it mean that there should be OMT recordings next to the useful protocols? Or are we just there with protocols?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u138	I think Mr. Ommzigt and I find each other a long way. You ask me something, but that is the question I have just asked the Minister. So I don't know the answer to that as much as you do. There's an Archive Act. We have all kinds of guidelines. There is also legislation. We have to stick to that, but I have just asked the Minister how we should implement that protocol and the lessons we can learn from the last two years. I'll wait for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u139	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u140	But still: there is an Archive Act, which states: save recordings. They're not saved. There is an advice from the Chief Information Officer of the Empire from March 2020, who says: make sure you keep your texts. That didn't happen with the Prime Minister. There is a Constitution, which states: the Council of Ministers takes decisions. The House of Cats does not appear in the Constitution. Minutes shall be made to the Council of Ministers. I can assure you that sometimes it can be very painful to read minutes of the cabinet. But minutes will be made so that you can see later, 25 years later, on the basis of which a decision was taken. This is very important to D66, for example in order to see how the debate on decolonization has gone on, around the period '45-'48. You're right. All three of those things didn't happen. We know that now, so we don't have to ask the government. It's the Chamber's job to check. So my question to D66 is: how do we ensure that this reporting is done properly from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u141	I don't think we know. You asked questions on behalf of a number of political groups on Sunday. In between, I think there was also a question if I'm wrong about the list of what has been agreed and what needs to be archived. I'm waiting, like you, for the Minister's answer to that. We can learn lessons from that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u142	I thank Mrs Paulusma for her contribution. I think we share a lot of things about how we can do better in the future. Nevertheless, if you want things better arranged for the future, the analysis of the past must be correct. I was shocked the moment she talked about the "sight of interference." I would like to briefly present two passages from the wobbled parts of Nieuwsuur. "Some institutions, such as institution X, however, give employees a set of personal protective equipment preventively. ActiZ is experiencing pressure, asking for clarity. The question is whether RIVM can once again stress that this is not necessary." Then the second quote: "Using pbm as a precautionary measure in patients who do not have a (suspect on) COVID-19 is not necessary and given the persistent scarcity of bpm..."..that is not desirable either. This text is not yet usable for the communication line. Put this behind you to help you." Is this "appearance," I ask Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u143	I don't think you have the answer to that any more than I do. I think that any kind of interference is what I mentioned just about role clarity: who does what and who is responsible for what?" It is important that this debate does not have to be accompanied by a much clearer and clearer paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u144	When it comes to appearances, there should be a suspicion that this has happened, but it is quite clear. An official at the VWS ministry, who is under the responsibility of this minister, says very clearly: "This text is not yet usable for the communication line. Have put a sentence behind it that would help." Then that phrase that has been given is included in the OMT opinion, including spelling error. Then we can't talk about "shape" anymore, can we? This is just an executive from the Ministry, where a one-on-one passage is included in the OMT opinion. Then we can't talk about "shape" anymore, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u145	I understand Mr. Kuzu is asking that question. I cherish the OMT, because it can talk to each other in the open space about the advice that the cabinet adopts. "Fine" is a tricky word. I still assume that those suggestions have been discussed in the OMT as I said in my speech. So the assumption that the OMT has taken this out of hand... maybe they've had a conversation about it and they've come to the same findings. I don't know. That is why I propose that we make sure that we close it more closely at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u146	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u147	Indeed, I agree with Mrs Paulusma that from now on we really need to do better. It hasn't happened in the past. Suppose there was a discussion between OMT members on this point, then you should at least assume, really, that that spelling error is removed? So that didn't happen. As a result, I do not think Mrs Paulusma's argument is valid either. It has nothing to do with appearance, but simply with the delivery of a piece of text that is being copied. Does Mrs Paulusma agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u148	My father studied Dutch. We always had to be very sharp on our language and spelling mistakes. So it's horrible that these things are in lyrics. But then we're still not sure what Mr. Kuzu concludes is true. We all agree it's got to be better. So I'm waiting for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u149	You have 30 seconds left, but for the rest you have done 25 minutes, so we don't have a problem with that. The next speaker would have been Mrs Simons, but I note that she is absent. Then we go to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u150	Mr. Chairman. During the Corona debate on 16 February, the CDA also asked questions about the news of Nieuwsuur. As far as we are concerned, this would certainly have been discussed in the examination of the OVV report. But we are having this debate now, so my group is already asking some questions about this. Mr. Chairman. In the letter dated 13 April, the Minister stated that the method of working with regard to the OMT report is now clear and describes it. We believe that this is very important, because the independence of the OMT must not be called into question. The CDA doesn't rely on suspicion. My group does not assume that people are trying to do things differently, but my group is committed to clarity. Hence the following questions. I put it against the backdrop of the annual report we have just received. Because the CDA is at least concerned about ensuring certain processes and procedures, i.e. the internal organisation of the ministry. So we see that there are still manual actions at the purchase. And the CIO of VWS doesn't have a complete overview of all systems yet. Mr. Chairman. That is why we would like to ask, in particular, whether the Minister will be able to indicate what the current working method is and will be secured. Are everyone familiar with the process and the procedure? And are they accessible to everyone? Who is responsible for defining the procedure? Who decides where it is kept? Who decides if there will be a change? And how is that accessible to the Chamber? I would also like to ask this, in view of the introduction of the President of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, Corien Prins, during the responsible breakfast last Wednesday. The title of this introduction was Archive in a digital world. Archiving is just very important. And it is also very important that all employees know what the internal procedure is. And can it be seen whether it is more pleasant for the RIVM to have an external chairman of the OMT? We would like to hear a response from the Minister to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u151	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the very beginning of this entire coronas scandal, FvD has repeatedly warned that the OMT is not independent, even for the simple reason that it is part of the RIVM and the RIVM is once again part of the VWS ministry. Jaap van Dissel, the chairman of the OMT, is paid by the Minister of VWS. How dependent do you want someone? Whoever pays, decides. Whether Van Dissel has actually been influenced by politics could not be proved for a long time. FVD explicitly asked this question on 11 August 2020. Van Dissel denied that at the time. But thanks to information from Wob-requests, it has now become absolutely clear that this was a big lie. Van Dissel was influenced and that political influence was already going on for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u153	I want to make a point of order. I just asked this, too. Mr. Van Meijeren is pleased to use someone's name all the time. But this is about someone in a particular position who is not present here. I think it would be better for the debate if Mr Van Meijeren was simply talking about "the president of the OMT" or "the director of the RIVM."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u154	Of course, his name has fallen a lot today, hasn't it? But...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u155	It is clear to everyone that Mr Van Dissel is the chairman of the OMT. He is not here, but I have asked him this question repeatedly myself. So let's not be childish; Mr Van Dissel's name falls on the assembly line here and we all know who this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u156	We agree, but you will go one step further if you also accuse him of lying. I think that's on the edge. I think it is a step too far to accuse someone who is not present at this debate of such hard things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u157	I also used this term directly to his face. I'd be happy to do that more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u158	That is without prejudice to the fact that we are doing something here other than in the contact you apparently have outside the Chamber with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u159	This is about the fact that lies have been spread, and I am going to explain this now. As I have just mentioned, this political influence has been in full swing for months. In his letter on interference, the Minister said that it was only clarification and not substantive direction. But that is demonstrable and factually incorrect. It was indeed about changes in the content of the course. OMT members themselves also say that they see the adjustments of the Ministry not as clarifications, but as substantive interference. They even say that they had felt that there was political guidance on the opinions for a long time, but could not properly verify that. In the meantime, it is also clear why, because without their knowledge, minutes of these OMT meetings were messed up after they had already been established. What does the minister say to these members of the OMT? And what does the Minister say to the professors of health law who have studied all the documents in detail and have concluded that the law is being broken here too? In fact, it is legally prohibited to exercise political influence on OMT's opinions. And if, despite all the facts that prove otherwise, the Minister does not acknowledge that there is political influence, does he at least acknowledge that the appearance of political influence has been created? And what does that mean for trust in RIVM, as far as there are people who still have it? The same president of the OMT, whose name is not mentioned, now advises to label the monkey pox virus as A disease. But how can we trust that this advice has not been whispered by the Minister? In order to regain some confidence, there is only one solution: at least the president of the OMT must be dismissed as soon as possible. After all, he is demonstrably impressionable and therefore corrupt. Mr President, I will conclude. If the Minister continues to wring his way again today to keep Van Dissel's hands above his head, he will confirm that he himself cannot be trusted either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u160	I'd like to argue with this. We're talking about functions here, not people. Earlier in this debate, someone said: you will not be guilty until proven guilty. I'd like to hold on to that anyway. And I find this disrespectful for someone who has worked all over the apelazarus for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u161	Mr President, in addition to that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u162	No, no, Mr Van Meijeren may respond first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u163	You have functions and you have people, but functions are not impressionable or bribeable. Features can't be corrupt, but people can. I'm talking about a person here. The evidence has been provided. It's just here in black and white. There's no one who's doubting this anymore. That political influence has taken place. Van Dissel is impressionable, corrupt and should be replaced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u164	Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I think this is a bit too harsh: words like "corrupt," "lies," " liar" and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u165	I have also criticized RIVM's and OMT's practices, but a person accused of corruption during a parliamentary debate goes far too far. Like the guy would have taken bribes from the ministry or something. This is the kind of bullshit I'm really throwing away from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u166	He has received many tens of thousands of euros from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u167	Yeah, but that's not corrupt. You're way out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u168	And he's been dancing to the pipe of the Ministry. That's dirty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u169	That's not corrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u170	Then we have a different definition of "corruption."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u171	Not only do I think it's very bad, but it's also dangerous what Mr. Van Meijeren is doing here. Mr. Van Ranst has a lot of trouble on his neck because he works for society. Marion Koopmans does. You're now accusing someone of corruption who is now evidence. And I can see how online the hotshot goes on for weeks. I do not think it is worthy of a Member of Parliament either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u172	It's been noted. I can tell you a lot more about Mr Van Ranst here. He has often demonstrated that he is spreading lies and disinformation, that he wants to scare people into taking away their fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u173	No, no, you're starting to scream now. I'm really sorry. You need to stop this. I'm gonna end it, because I don't like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u174	Corruption means taking money or other favors from someone to do or leave something. At the moment we have a Member of Parliament here, whose name escapes me if we paraphrase here who says that if someone is paid by the Empire, he is corrupt. Then we would have 100,000 corrupt officials here. That's not true. You'll just get your paycheck. So either you come up with a pretty good lead that someone took money and you report it, or you don't say it. There are plenty of people here who know how to press charges. I don't mind; it's okay. In a state governed by the rule of law, you can file a complaint. That's what courts are for, and you have a D.A.'s office for that. But it's one of those two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u175	I'm being miscited here. I didn't say for a moment that someone who receives money from the Ministry is, by definition, corrupt. I have said very clearly in my initial words that the framework conditions for corruption have in any case been created. Besides, you don't necessarily have to receive money and do something in return. It could also be in exchange for a favor. Mr Van Dissel's fine job depends on the Minister, but I have said that it has not been proved for a long time. Well, that's proven beyond doubt by now. Jaap van Dissel has succumbed to influence exercised by the Ministry. He's changed his advice without a hitch. There's only one word for that: corruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u176	No, it's not. No, I'm gonna hate it, too. You are always using very nasty, harsh words that are totally unnecessary, and then again against someone who cannot defend himself here. I'm very sorry. I'm gonna end this fast. Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u177	Corruption is simply a criminal offence, according to the Code of Criminal Law. Let me just say clearly here: if Mr Van Dissel has changed things under pressure from the Ministry, then the Ministry has broken the law at that time, and not Mr Van Dissel. I'm just saying. Someone is called corrupt here, while I have not heard from the Member of Parliament who does so, a beginning of what that corruption would consist of, what he has accepted. Of course, the director of RIVM is appointed and paid by the government. I don't know how else to do it. I don't think it's too good for him to get paid by the pharmaceutical. Then we'd have something else here, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u178	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u179	So either you say "he's corrupt on this" and then you report it. Then you're a big boy. Or you're pulling it in. But there's not much of a way in when you're accusing someone of a criminal offense here. Otherwise it'll be free shooting in the Chamber at everyone. I have hundreds of thousands of things I want to say about Mr Van Dissel that I do not agree on, but that is different from the fact that I blame someone for a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u180	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u181	This is weird, isn't it? Mr Omtzigt says: it is a good thing that Mr Van Dissel receives his salary from the Ministry, because he should not receive it from the pharmaceutical industry. No, we need a president of the OMT who isn't paid by the Ministry at all, because he is dependent on it by definition. The fact that this dependence has been abused has now been undisputedly demonstrated by Wob requests. I can go on repeating what I have said, but advice is given and then the Ministry says: we do not agree with these opinions, so we would be very pleased if that other advice were given. Mr Van Dissel gives in to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u182	I haven't heard the beginning of any corruption, not the beginning. I've heard all kinds of things that should have been different, but corruption is a very specific crime. It's got jail time on it. If you're accusing anyone of that in the public arena... the reason I'm addressing Mr. Van Meijeren here is very simple. If you do that outside, you don't have parliamentary immunity. Then Mr Van Dissel can go to a Member of Parliament and say: this is defamation and slander; I will drag you to court. If you do it here, you're parliamentaryly immune. That's usually a big good. FVD likes to use that parliamentary immunity, and rightly so, because they can say things that are unpopular in the rest of the Netherlands. But you shouldn't use it to accuse people of something against which they can't defend themselves and against which they can't pursue a case. That's why I'm also asking you not to use words like this or to press charges...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u183	Clear, clear, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u184	... or to tell them in the public domain where someone can defend themselves. Because what's happening now isn't fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u185	Short, finalizing. This is a contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u186	Short reaction. Indeed, I have said this to Mr Van Dissel many times, to his face. He doesn't want to go into that. Moreover, we can do very terminological about exactly when there is corruption. In today's speech use, this is just about corruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u187	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u188	I will consider making a declaration when we have independent justice in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u189	Fine. I'm gonna end it. Is your contribution really necessary? Is it really a new element, Mr. Hijink? Because I really want to quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u190	I understand that very well, but this is really out of bounds. Corruption is about bribery, about bribery. Look it up in the Van Dale, Mr. Van Meijeren. That's all about money...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u191	That point has just been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u192	Yes, that point has been made, but if Mr Van Meijeren says that, then he must also come up with some evidence at what time Mr Van Dissel enriched himself at the time of the crisis. I think it's really excessive. It's totally unacceptable. I certainly do not want to hear it from someone who, in my opinion, is now paying and from the Lower House, from the city council and from the Provincial States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u193	Very briefly, very briefly, because I'm going to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u194	Again...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u195	Very briefly, very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u196	Mr Van Dissel receives many tens of thousands of euros per year from the Ministry. He's dependent. The minister can fire him. That would be possible if Mr Van Dissel did not dance to the pipe of the ministry. He's shown that he's been dancing to the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u197	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u198	That's what I call corrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u199	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u200	I keep saying it...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u201	No, you're not gonna say it. I'm going to suspend now. At 10:15 p.m., we're gonna listen to the minister. No new points are being made anymore. I've had enough of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u202	We're gonna start with the first term of the cabinet. Yeah, it's 10:30. It's a good habit to turn off the lights here at 11:00. We're gonna see if that's gonna happen again today. In response to what you say outside the microphone, Mrs Agema: no, that is not going to happen. However, I would like to ask the high-level Members to be pointy with interruptions, as far as they are necessary. Most of the questions have actually been asked. And tomorrow's paper won't make it to you either. So short and pointy questions. Then we can just listen to the minister well. It's an important matter, but it doesn't have to take hours, so is my suggestion. 'Cause some people still have to take the train to far. We're gonna listen to the minister. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u203	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry I was a little late than half an hour. Mr. Chairman. During the debate on 16 February last, I spoke to your Chamber about the position of the OMT. Following the debate, the request made by Mr Hijink and the request made by the Committee for VWS, on 13 April I sent to your Chamber the clarification questions and suggestions submitted by the Ministry of Education and Science to the OMT opinions on COOVID-19. Today we are talking again about this issue. In this connection, I would like first of all to return to what I said last time, namely that the period we were talking about was an extremely hectic phase, especially in the initial phase. Some of you have already mentioned this. We all know that. We've all been there. That was also true for an OMT, for interaction, for professionals, for care and so on. In doing so, expert advice was very important and a guide to action. Important to mention is that in some parts of the care at that time the OMT was about the beacon, also for their actions directly on the workplace floor. This was to a lesser extent true for hospitals, who often have their own OMT and their own infection prevention and advice, but this was true for long-term care, nursing homes, nursing homes, neighbourhood care and so on. Those were guidelines and advice that were spelled out and that had to be translated regularly into practice, the situation of each day, the working methods of many people, each at their own level. I know this from my experience as a care manager and as a member of a regional policy team of a security region at the time. Opinions were taken literally sometimes. That was an intensive process. This led to regular discussions in the healthcare field, for example about visitor arrangements, test policy and so on. That required that the opinions were very clear. I have already informed you in writing about the independence and position of the OMT. I mentioned it earlier: the OMT is independent. Members are in the OMT in a personal capacity because of their expertise. I'm not talking about the composition of the OMT. I'm not in the OMT either. I often get an oral feedback from the President with colleagues involved. I would like to add my voice to what Mrs Bikker rightly described and, for the sake of clarity, to say the following. There's a meeting of the OMT. We now know that a reporter makes a recording at that meeting, but only in support of the Minutes. Those minutes are different from the shorthand report here in your Chamber. They are not a literal report, but they are minutes of a sitting. They then lead to an opinion, a draft opinion. The method has been slightly modified over time. But especially when we look at this first period, it led to an opinion. Later, they led to a draft opinion. That draft opinion first went to VWS and that opinion went to BAO. There are several parties in the BAO. If necessary, that led to questions. It then went on to a wider consultation, to the Council of Ministers and so on. As you know, I have already adapted that process in recent months to ensure that the final opinion of the OMT goes directly to your Chamber, simultaneously with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u204	This debate should not take long. The Minister now repeats what was in the letter sent to the Chamber about the way it was working. But the short cut of what I actually want to hear from the Minister is this. What does he think of the way in which VWS OMT opinions have been amended in such a way that the content has also changed? And what does he think of the fact that in his first week as Minister he said on a lot of channels that the officials only made clarifications? Should he have done it like that, or should he have? So I have two brief questions. How does he think it went and how does he think it should go in the future? And two: what does he think of his own role?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u205	First of all, let me be very clear: the OMT is about its own texts. You were right to mention that. When questions were asked, the OMT sometimes took over and sometimes they didn't. The OMT is about its own texts, and I think it should remain so. What do I think should be different in the future? I agree with Mr Hijink on this point. That step where it first goes to VWS for a clarifying question, has to come out. That has also led to the discussion. Many of the points of discussion were concerned with clarification, also from the point of view of the questions they had in the field. But that also led to appearances on points and then we only get to the word "shape" that was sent here somehow. So I think that we can at least get that out of it and that it is also important to get that out of it, by just making sure it goes directly. In this respect, I agree with Mr Hijink. There's still that step from the BAO. That's how it's been described. The BAO is a meeting. The fixed parties are the Dutch municipalities, the GGD, the security regions and the inspection. They can just ask enlightening questions. In fact, they also take a test on feasibility. I still think that is an important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u206	We're in business here very soon. I think it is very good that the Minister says that the OMT opinions are no longer going to VWS. I think that's great. What I don't approve of is that the BAO stays in the middle. They too can unintentionally steer things if they find things unworkable. The OMT is just a bunch of virologists and you name it. They give their advice from their expertise. Sometimes they have also been horribly wrong; we shouldn't hide that either, but OMT advice is from the OMT, just like advice from the Quality Institute of the Quality Institute and just like advice from Zorginstituut Nederland are from Zorginstituut Nederland. They don't go to anyone else before they're published. So I would like to make another move there. I asked the Minister about his role when he was a fresh minister and also said that they were just enlightening questions, which turned out not to be so. I had one more question, but I lost it for a second. But we're in business. So it's going really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u207	With regard to the second question, on the enlightening questions: I would answer them again in this way. Most of the questions are enlightening and ask for clarification. Part of that clarification comes from the questions that are discussed in such a BAO. With regard to the position of that BAO: yes, we can have an excellent discussion about the role, about when an opinion is needed and whether or not it should come through a BAO, but then we should also do so in the light of an amendment of the Public Health Act, because that role has been described.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u208	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u209	So we're not gonna agree on that. So I think that an OMT recommendation is only from the OMT and no one else. On the other hand, we have done business, but I do not think the Minister can hide behind 'yes, but they were usually enlightening questions'. No, he has been very explicit: they were just enlightening questions. Meanwhile, the OVV and Mrs Holdert van Nieuwsuur have shown that far-reaching changes have been made, for example when the OMT found that foot-nose masks were needed in the nursing homes. VWS has made an opinion on this. That is a crucial difference, with far-reaching consequences. I think that the Minister should be more accountable. He can't just go against the Chamber but also against the AD, Nieuwsuur, Hart van Nederland, Skipr and all kinds of other media all-out with "they were only enlightening texts or questions" when it doesn't turn out to be so. He misinformed the Chamber in that regard. I would like to hear more from this Minister, because we must also be able to trust him. If he takes all the cameras all out and tells everyone in the living room that they were just enlightening questions and if it is actually proved that they are not, then I expect the Minister in the future not to take the turn so short and that he now also says to the Chamber: I went too short; I should not have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u210	I follow Mrs Agema's line on the position, but I do not share the view. As for the specific point to which you refer: the question, also in that BAO, was exactly what this means for the use of personal protective equipment in... A question has been asked by VWS: can it be that...? I heard from my officials that you will also find the response to this on the website of Nieuwsuur. The OMT said: "That's right; we do agree with that; we discussed that in the same way and we'll take it over."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u211	Well, let's go, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u212	Then I'll sit down, Mr. Chairman, and you won't hear me again. This doesn't make any sense. It's not just about the BAO, you know. It is really about a video on ad.nl, in which the minister says: "No OMT opinions were rewritten, no conclusions were changed, a highly necessary translation was made into a clear message." The OVV, the Security Research Council, says: boys, it just doesn't make any sense at all what happened. Mr Dijsselbloem simply says that not only enlightening questions have been asked about opinions. That's not Jan with the hat saying: those Kuipers weren't right. I would therefore like to hear more from the Minister that he has gone too short by saying that they were merely enlightening questions, that no conclusions have been drawn and that no adjustments have been made. That has happened and has been proven, firstly by the Wob request of Nieuwsuur, but secondly also by the Research Council on Security. Jeroen Dijsselbloem simply says: "There were also parts that really mattered, but there were not only enlightening questions, for example when it came to the distribution of personal protective equipment, such as scarce mouth caps. Nurses were standing behind in line by the Ministry's decision." We should not make this a discussion of opinions. I think that at some point the Minister should have said: I should have brought it more nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u213	I think that some of these issues are reflected in the discussion on the OVV report. That's what needs to be done. Here we are talking about the OMT and whether or not to rewrite, modify, mix and so on. At the back of the queue for personal protective equipment, I would like to mention it very briefly in the context of the OVV, for example, is a discussion that I would like to do more broadly and within the framework of the OVV. Let me say here for now that there really is more to be said about this than just the statement that the nursing homes came in line at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u214	Look, if it were just about the little things and the little things, I don't think we'd have had this debate. Then we wouldn't have had that whole thing about using or not using mouth caps in the nursing homes. Nor would we have had the discussion about adapting directives and OMT opinions. In my view, therefore, we can see that the adjustments have gone beyond merely clarifying questions. I think we should just establish that tonight. My question is as follows. I'm glad the Minister says that step out of the way. There will be no more questions or suggestions from VWS on the OMT's draft advice. But what exactly is the role of the BAO when it lands there? Are they going to get over it again or can we do it like this? The opinion is ready and is put on the table. If there are any questions, they can ask them and then the OMT can respond to them further. Otherwise, of course, we get a little bit the same and you're going to move the problem from the ministry to the organizational parties that are in the administrative coordination meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u215	In comparison, I'd like to mention a healthcare institution or something else. I can also compare it with the advice of the Health Council. That is a different type of advice with a very different process. In this case, there is often a case for which it is logical, especially in the context of a pandemic, a meeting, an opinion and then a direct translation into what that means, for example, for a security region and so on. This means that such a BAO should have an early and in the front with the parties mentioned and ask enlightening questions about it. That's how it's written. Unless we fill that out completely differently, I'd like to hold on to that, without the mixing and without the questions from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u216	Then let me ask the question differently. Is the opinion that is currently on the table the same as the opinion that is being published? Or is the BAO going to make suggestions for adjustments, just like the Ministry did until recently or until now? I think you should distinguish between the advice and then the policy translation, whether it is in the cabinet, municipalities or security regions. Those are two different things, aren't they? So my question is: are there or are there not further suggestions that will be put forward in the actual opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u217	Let's be very clear first. There's an advice. Then there is a definition of policy, whether with measures or not, the re-scaling of test capacity or something else. There's gonna be some advice. But in order to actually translate that advice into a practice, it is important that relevant parties such as a GGD, a security region or a Dutch municipality can at least ask questions about it in order to bridge the gap between expert advice, such as an epidemiologist, a virologist and so on, and so I call it practice, for example, just on the street or something else. It is a long answer to your question, but it means that if the BAO is in between, questions must certainly lead to clarification. It is not an adaptation in the field of epidemiology or virology. Those parties aren't at the table for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u218	I find this difficult. It's kind of weird that these organizations... That they have questions about the advice, I understand very well. That they want clarification, I also understand very well. I understand that they want to know what this means in practice. You can ask all those questions. Those questions can also be delivered from the OMT. But I do not quite see why a summary of a consultation that has been in the OMT should be revised yet again. You could say: "This advice is there. That meeting's over. We'll make that public. It's on the table at the BAO. At the same time, there will be a meeting and if there are any questions, they will come after them further." I think that is the most transparent way to organise it, so that we also know for sure that the suggestions we are no longer receiving from VWS will not come from another table. I don't think we should. I think you can say perfectly well that it is now becoming public and that the questions that are still there are discussed afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u219	I imagine there is something else. I understand Mr Hijink's question very well. I'm also willing to see where you need to find the solution. I can also imagine something else, namely that there is indeed... There is a concept advice. There's gonna be a meeting at the BAO. It will then be specified whether this discussion in the BAO has led to further clarification or an amendment of the opinion, and if so, what it was. But that is once a complete story, including the input from the BAO, which you can also track and track in bad Dutch. I would like to avoid an opinion and then try to make a translation. I told you, I have in the past in such a regional policy team of the security region... I know exactly how that sometimes came. Many of you have a legal background. They know that, too. The input of an OMT is based primarily on epidemiology, on virology, on clinical data. Sometimes there was really a need for a translation. We could strive to do so, and I would like to look at Mr Hijink......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u220	I think that would be a very good improvement, because then you would actually have it done so that the role of VWS falls away throughout the preliminary journey. If, in this way, any tightening-up, adjustments, requests, suggestions and requests for clarification can be made public immediately, I think that is a whole step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u221	This remains an opinion at that stage. Let's make that very clear. We're all in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u222	I'd like to compliment the Minister anyway. In one area of pens, it will now be resolved at least for the future, especially if Mr Hijink's additions are taken over. Well, then we're a long way ahead. But implicitly we also indicate that it was wrong in the past. That's a nice encore, too. So all we have left to answer for is the past. I think we can end the whole debate if the Minister just says: sorry, this went wrong and we're never gonna do it again. Then the Minister will answer and we can go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u223	It's an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u224	In terms of time, I would like to do so, Mr President; I am sure you all will, but still two steps. One. The proof of the pudding...Sorry, you still have to prove it to the future. That's gonna take a while. That's what I'm committed to. I absolutely think this is a good way. As far as the past is concerned, I would like to say that we have worked here under very high pressure, in an extremely special situation. In this, our frameworks were not enough, let us be very clear about it too. There's no Wpg focused on catching a pandemic. It focuses on accommodating an individual patient, but not on very large groups. There were no... there was suddenly a choice to make. With that came the OMT, which existed a long time ago. It's been around for 25 years, or maybe even longer. I know that, at least in 1997, there were certain procedures, so at least for so long. Now it was suddenly in a totally different role, with a much higher frequency, under much higher pressure, with decisions that had far greater consequences in the very short term. So now to say in Hindsight that it went wrong... I think we really need a little more evaluation for that. If, at the end of the day, a conclusion is reached that it is, I am very willing to draw it. Then we should also say: how can we improve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u225	That surprises me a little bit, because we understand that there has been a lot of pressure. That people have worked 24 hours, seven days a week, is all fine. But there's been a demonstrable influence. Well, there wasn't quite the truth about it, if not a lie about it, because it was said it hadn't happened. It did happen. That is all very well to forgive, but then at some point the bow must be made: "Sorry, this really went wrong under high pressure and at least the appearance of deception has been created. The Chamber is not well informed." Well, then I guess it's only natural to apologize for that. Anyway, if we have to do endless research for that, when everything is just black and white, I'm surprised. I thought I was offering a simple way out of meeting the President too, but it's up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u226	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u227	Mrs Tielen may still be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u228	It was a different point from Mr Van Haga's.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u229	Okay, I'm gonna go see if Mrs Van Esch has another question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u230	Something else is on the subject of advice from the OMT. Glad to hear that from now on a different method is being applied. My question to the Minister is whether this could also apply to the OMT-Z, in the sense that the OMT-Z could no longer be considered by the Ministry as regards the advice we are still waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u231	Let me come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u232	I believe that this is a constructive debate by looking together for ways to ensure that the OMT can work in a clear, independent and transparent manner. That's totally fine. The Minister himself mentioned the Public Health Act. The question then is to what extent it stands in the way of this, but the question is, of course, whether the Minister is already in the process of adapting that law in such a way that it is also suitable for corona and whether he is taking it into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u233	We're busy adjusting the Wpg. That will have to be done in instalments rather than completely taking much more time. We have considered it before, including the reasons for it. These points are taken into account. I cannot yet say whether we should do this in the first instalment or whether we should do it later. We're gonna get those conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u234	Again, Mrs. Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u235	In itself, this is a convincing answer, but my question was also to what extent the Public Health Act stands in the way of what we are now trying to shape with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u236	Good check. Taking the position of the BAO out now stands in the way. I am convinced that, apart from the law, this really has a function. I don't think it's gonna stand in the way of the process description we were just talking about. We'll do a double check, and if we do, we'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u237	Check and double check.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u238	That's exactly why I've been working on it for a while. What was said to Mr Hijink also concerned the question of the CDA whether there is a clear new procedure in which it can no longer exist. It seems to me that the Wpg does not get in the way of doing that tomorrow. However, my question is how the Minister will ensure that it is well anchored in the Ministry. It is good that we have shared it with each other here, but I have also indicated in my contribution that bailing out so many thousands of people is also an important part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u239	A very clear question and a justified point. I think that this can be done very easily by making very clear agreements with the relevant management and the people who do that work. It's possible. Then I come to the question by Mr Kuzu, Mr Omtzigt, Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Van den Berg, whether the chairman of the OMT should not be independent and so it must be someone other than the director of the RIVM Centre on Infection Disease Control. I would like to emphasise that the president of the OMT, who is the director of the RIVM Centre on Infection Disease Control, is independent. On the basis of the RIVM Act, RIVM must also advise independently. That is what has already been laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u240	It is recorded in this way, but will the Minister also see if they have found this a pleasant situation from the RIVM over the past two years? I can imagine that it has sometimes been quite difficult for RIVM because they have worked from a very different setting for the past 25 years. Can the Minister look again at whether this is the most pleasant way of doing things with regard to RIVM?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u241	Sure. I can take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u242	The Minister has already indicated that he would like to take a look at that. I certainly do not want to give the impression that we must look from the political point of view at who will be the new chairman of the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u243	The OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u244	By this independence, we do not mean that the director of the RIVM would not be independent, but given the circumstances, we think it would be wise to come with someone who is a little further away from the ministry of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u245	I'll say again that I'm not talking about the composition of the OMT. I am not in charge of the OMT Presidency either. I'd like to keep it that way. Of course I want to see how that has been done in the past period and whether that requires something different from the RIVM. But that's first of all RIVM itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u246	If I understand correctly, the composition of the OMT is laid down in the detailed rules. As a result, it is now obvious that the director of the RIVM is chairing the OMT. That is also from the point of view that it sees very regularly as an infectious disease control measure. Then it is perfectly logical that the director of RIVM should chair. Only, the OVV has concluded that in such a long crisis with so many aspects, infection disease control is or very central, because the director of the RIVM qualite in several places. In my view, this is a vulnerability that we need to analyse properly. In addition, there may also be a new infectious disease, where it is perfectly logical that there is a small OMT, again led by the RIVM. So I wouldn't want to veto it right now, so that the director of the RIVM never sits there again. There are a lot of situations where that works very well. But especially in the case of the bigger health crises, I would like to ask the Minister, even if we continue the debate on the OVV report, which is appropriate. So look at what is appropriate for that Wpg, so that we also set up the commitment on the different scenarios instead of throwing everything over the top as a result of this scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u247	Maybe I'm giving the impression that I'm dogmatic in this, but that's not the case at all. But let us not anticipate that now. Let's take a quiet look at that. We're going to have a debate on the OVV report. We'll talk about it later. Indeed, it is so that fits a bit with the conversation that has already passed, that when you look at the course of time, the positioning and the way we looked at those advices have gradually changed. That's what I had to do. In the first phase, it was an unknown disease. It was completely unknown how many cases there were actually. There was an enormous increase in the number of patients. There was uncertainty about the use of materials. There was a shortage of materials. Then an OMT is a beacon in battle, to put it that way. That sounds a little pathetic, but it actually is. Gradually, of course, that situation will be different. Look at the last few months. In my role as Minister, you have also seen that at the beginning of this year, we simply went against the OMT's advice at certain times. It's an advice. Sometimes you make a different political decision. That is a situation which I believe is sensible. We have indicated from the cabinet that we want to combine that advice of the OMT with other advice for the longer-term approach of covid. We want to have the discussion here and make the trade-offs different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u248	The President of the Council for Health & Society and several professors also wondered whether you should not put the OMT a little more at a distance. For example, investigate the position of the OMT and of the RIVM, to properly identify the advantages and disadvantages. Can you turn RIVM into an independent administrative body, for example? I'd like to ask the Minister if he's prepared to do such an investigation. Does he really want to take a good look at the pros and cons? Does he want to create a little more distance between the ministry and the advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u249	I am open to research, but then I don't want to mean this as rejection. I really would like to have a good conversation with all of you first, also on the occasion of the OVV report. That debate will be scheduled shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u250	Mr Omtzig has just touched on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u251	Indeed, independence is established. However, it is also established in the current laws and regulations that the director of the RIVM is the chairman of the OMT. Now the OVV has made recommendations on this too. Let's just be honest: we never thought we'd need an OMT that intensive for two years. I mean, this is all wisdom after all. We had hoped that would be two months. You're gonna get into less trouble we're describing right now. Having seen all this, also these reports that have been around for a number of months now, I ask the Minister whether he has reflected on them whether that is an ideal combination, also because the OVV says there is rolling mix. Not without respect for the individual: does the Minister already have a view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u252	Again: I do not want to take the lead here on my own, while with some colleagues I refer almost everything, or people sitting here will soon also discuss the OVV report more broadly. But if your question is whether I am thinking about positioning and how to advise in the future, the answer is yes. You have already seen a piece of that in the long-term letter. I have said that, as a cabinet too, we have said that we must set broader targets. The OMT was initially, very logical, sec focused on health and health care. In the meantime, we know that if you do that for too long, it has huge implications for young people, for people with their own business etc. So you have to weigh that more broadly. This also requires broader advice. We've already said something about that. That is not yet the case: does the Minister have an opinion on whether the OMT Presidency should change? For me, that presidency is now well invested. That's also described, as you say. I am open to the discussion about this, of course also hearing what RIVM itself has found in the past period. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Agema asked if I would no longer want to block the Chamber in her statutory audit task and no longer want to keep the OMT minutes a secret. First of all, I would like to make a comment, which I have just made. The OMT report is not a verbatim report, as is customary in the Chamber. It is an integral slash brief report. The draft report shall be forwarded to the members. They can respond to this. After any reactions and processing, the report shall become final. The reports of the meetings shall have the status of a report of a Joint Advisory Committee on which confidentiality has been agreed with the members of the committee. This is also mentioned in a leaflet on national advice in infectious disease control and crises. VWS therefore has no access to the reports. I don't want that either. I do not want to spread the reports in this respect either. One more step: I do not want to do that with the possible sound recordings. I think this, if we do that, is really something to do prospectively. It's really asking for something else from the OMT members. We have just talked about science, but science also brings with it a great deal of uncertainty and hence free discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u253	I remember a promise from you, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u254	That's right, but I only brought in two topics and I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u255	Yeah, yeah, yeah. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u256	I wonder what the law actually says about this. I have a minister in front of me who says, "My gut says this; we shouldn't do it for what we feel. The Second Chamber of the States-General has two rights. One is that we are co-legislators and the other is the controlling task we carry out on behalf of the people, as elected representatives of the people. That controlling task is also about truth finding. That is what the Committee of Inquiry will be doing in due course. So on what basis does the Minister actually decide that the Ministry of Health does not make those minutes public? Let me mention a point of substance. At the very beginning of the crisis, there was a very long stroke over the nose masks. The OMT always didn't think it was necessary. At the very end, after 85 opinions, they even suggested once that the FFP2 masks should be worn outdoors. It's something you have to be quite chasing, and you just need minutes and decision-making for that too. So on what basis does the Minister keep this secret?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u257	Apart from the legal basis, which I would like to come back to in my heart, it is a matter of asking people to sit on a committee at a crucial stage without burden or back-spoke, in a personal capacity, and to think about difficult opinions. There's no oral report on it. But when we say at the end "we want these reports to be public; in all situations we want to know by name what someone has said at some point," we are obliged to make a very good explanation to those scientists. That perspective alone is a reason why I wouldn't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u258	The Minister can want so much, but yes, here is the elected representative of the people. These are 150 MPs with constitutional right to control. And this has been far-reaching. These people decided on far-reaching restrictions of freedom for 17,5 million Dutch. We are their elected representatives. We need to be able to examine how these freedom-limiting measures have been put in place for those people and we need to be able to find the truth. So I ask again: on what basis does the Minister intend to take this constitutional task away from me? He doesn't have one. I therefore ask the Minister to allow me to carry out this constitutional task by making these minutes public. If he doesn't want to, he'll have to come up with a damn good reason. And he doesn't have any!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u259	I would like to come back to the legal aspect, as I have just said. I would also like to mention that there is a good reason, apart from the legal aspect. I am not arguing at all that you are entitled to any information. But if you had asked two years ago "we would like prospectively all the stenographies," you would have done something towards all those employees who are in the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u260	I had nothing to do with that. I have a constitutionally controlling task. We are the elected representatives of the people here. This elected parliament should be able to examine what freedom-limiting measures have been taken on the basis of which and which the OMT has advised. We have that right. That is Article 68 of the Constitution. It's not for a minister to say, "I'm not gonna do that right now," because I can't do that, can I? No. I want him to make those minutes public so that we can do our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u261	As I said, I would like to return to the legal framework. But I don't have the reports. My associates, the officials, they've never seen them either. They don't ask them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u262	Once more very briefly, Mrs Agema, because it has been really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u263	But the Department of Health refuses to disclose the documents. Is that false?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u264	As mentioned above, VWS has no access to the OMT's reports. For that reason alone, it is in fact impossible to share the reports with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u265	I wanted to continue at this point, but I have a very short question. This answer was also reflected in the answer to the written questions. It may be that the Ministry does not have access to the minutes, but I wonder if this minister could at least ask the OMT how a certain sentence, including spelling errors, has literally entered the minutes of the OMT. We've seen that in those Wob pieces. It may be that this minister cannot have access to it, but I think this minister can ask the OMT. I think it would remove a lot of noise and give a lot of clarity to at least put that question to the OMT. I wonder if this Minister is prepared to do so. That could be done, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u266	I am very willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u267	Mr Omtzig is going to be here a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u268	I'm gonna pick up where Mrs. Agema left off. The OMT reports are not intended to be made available in real time. We leave that "real time" to ministers. You're supposed to be able to trace back what happened and whether something went wrong. That is why we want to know what those minutes and reports look like. In reply to the questions I have put to the House, it is said that it is stated in a leaflet that no one but the participants in the relevant OMT consultation has access to the report. That deal's been made. But that agreement is not about constitutional article 68, because that way you can keep everything away from the House of Representatives. It's about public access, even though I understand that you don't put certain things out here all day. How does the Minister intend to ensure that we can see whether these reports match the OMT opinions? Because there is some doubt about that, even with the Minister. How can we, as representatives of the people, carry out that check?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u269	For the moment, I have no reason to doubt that what has been discussed in the OMT and what is or is not recorded in the minutes... Once again, let me be clear: I do not have those minutes and I have never read them either. I therefore have no reason to doubt that what is contained in an opinion shows a mismatch with what has been discussed or in the Minutes. I can't give you any minutes I don't have. If I am legally obliged to seek those advice from the OMT and the RIVM in any way, then I will have to look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u270	Then we are back to the rutte doctrine: we do not know, we do not want to know and because we do not know what has been done, you cannot prove that something has been done wrong. That is a very bad doctrine, because at that time, as a Member of Parliament, you cannot exercise your controlling role. I'd like to go back to the OMT meeting on April 14th. There was a note, which has now been confirmed by Professor Bianca Neighbor. She says: we have put in a note that argued that if only one person was infected in a nursing home, everyone would always and everywhere use personal protective equipment. The OMT's advice, after the ministry's intervention, contradicts that advice. It says: do not use protective material. Then 2,600 people died in the nursing homes in six weeks because there were no protective equipment. If you see these two things, which are at odds with each other, then as a parliamentarians you want to check whether the OMT has issued a strange opinion or whether the Ministry has updated that advice. That's a perfectly legitimate question, isn't it? That is not a small detail, but a key point in the crisis. The main conclusion of the OVV was that there was a silent disaster in the nursing homes. Four people have warned us very strongly about this. We want to know what happened to those advices and why it took another five months for them to be available in the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u271	There are a few things that are mixed up here. Mr Omtzigt raised a number of points. Maybe I can try to dissect them for a while. It is about what was discussed in the OMT in April 2020, about what was brought into the OMT by people and about what eventually came into an opinion. It also concerns the inclusion of a paragraph in the final opinion. With regard to the first, I cannot give an answer. On the second point: the data that we now have shows that a question has been asked in the BAO, namely what this meant with regard to the policy for nursing homes and the handling of people who were not tested positively and so on. There was a response: it is true that we have talked about this and we will include a phrase about it. That this is not in line with the advice you referred to, from Professor Bianca Neighbor, among others, is something that in the OMT... I can't check that. That is something that has been advised in the OMT and which has been considered on certain grounds. We should ask the people of the OMT what their considerations were at the time. Once again, we will also come to the OVV discussion. I do know that in that period of time we were about a week or six busy... was incredibly unclear about the risk of infection, about or asymptomatic infection occurred et cetera et cetera. I experienced this in my own region at the time. I'll take that back to my old role. There were institutions, like the ones I was responsible for, where you explicitly used personal protective equipment at the time you took care of or dealt with a patient who was either proven positive or suspected of it. But there were also institutions that distributed mouth caps to everyone, up to and including the visitors who came in. That was a difference in policy. That's what these discussions are about. I've been through that discussion in practice. So I know what kind of gap that was and that there was no clear answer at the time. If you put two opinions side by side, that of the OMT and that of Bianca Neighbor, I say: so what, I can give you many more. There were a lot more and they went right together. It was a time of great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u272	There was great uncertainty as to whether you should wear mouth caps throughout society. There was even uncertainty about what to do with visitors in hospitals. That is what the Minister, who at the time was chairman of a large academic hospital, refers to. But there is very little discussion among doctors and nurses about the risks of infectious diseases. The moment there's an infectious disease in your nursing home, you have protective equipment. That's a legal duty under the Arbo Act. In the hospitals, everyone was completely packed when they were dealing with corona patients. In home care and in nursing homes there was a directive that said: if you spend less than five minutes with a corona patient, you don't even need a mouth and nose mask. But nurses were fully packed. 2,600 people died in the nursing homes. There was a restraining order. It wasn't a discussion then either. There was also no discussion as to whether there was asymptomatic or presymptomatic transmission, as the WHO had already established this in March. On March 7th, the CDC in America said: in one proven case, you have to do it everywhere. At the end of March, Germany turned around. In the OMT was Aura Tiemen. It had already published in 2010 that if you have an infectious disease... Jacco, what's his name, the model leader...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u273	Wallinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u274	He was one of them. They have published articles together on how to wear mouth-nosed masks. That wasn't a discussion. It is therefore quite right that we should ask why we see input from all kinds of people in the OMT who say that you should at least ensure that nurses who deal with those vulnerable people have more access to protective equipment? We simply want to know what the Minutes are about. Then we can see what the discussion has been. Why would it be bad that we would know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u275	It's not bad at all to know what the discussion was at the time. But Mr Omtzigt fills that out in a certain way. As I said, we can add a lot more to it. You mention a number of names, but we can continue to do so. There was a big discussion about it. There were discrepancies in policy. By the way, they were much wider. I've already thought before the first patient here about differences in preparation for the possible arrival of corona. There are a lot of differences. We're gonna have to quietly pick up the net at some point. There are reports and discussions on it, such as from the OVV. I don't know exactly what the discussion was at the OMT. I know what the final advice was. We have seen a piece of how that advice came about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u276	I'm sticking with it. In a democracy, far-reaching decisions have been taken, on the advice of the OMT. Those far-reaching decisions are about not making them available. This later led to a strange decision by the Inspectorate SZW, the current Labour Inspectorate, not to maintain. I do not know on what legal basis that has been decided. I'll get back to you in a minute. Decisions were taken at a later stage to deal with serious restrictions on the constitutional freedoms of all citizens. Then you want to know if that advice is from the OMT or if it's actually from the U.S. Department? I ask the Minister: how can we now check this out as parliamentarians?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u277	It's an opinion from the OMT. They're OMT opinions. But as indicated, I've already thought about it. I can repeat what happened at the time. In the BAO further questions have been asked about this and it has been said: be very specific. I have also indicated the reasons for this. I don't know if that has happened orally, but I don't know if it is necessary to consider precisely what Professor Neighbor, Jacco Wallinga and Marion Koopmans thought, so to put that right next to each other again. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u278	Finally. I'm sticking to my point of view. It is highly desirable that the sound recordings of the OMT meetings should be made available, not to discuss them publicly, but to look later at a parliamentary survey or at an ex post investigation into how these decisions were made. I hope the government will see that at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u279	As far as I understand, those sound recordings are not available. Again, as far as I understand it now. Let me add, however, that it is not annoying that you have been actively involved in this for two, two and a half years. If you had insisted that the OMT meetings were fully written out minutes and audio tapes, and if you had indicated that you would like them, it would have been nice for the participants concerned to make that very clear on the front, rather than taking an opinion at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u280	I'm making a point of order. I spoke to one of the OMT members today. He indicated to me that he assumed that those sound recordings were used for this purpose. He told me that in person. Maybe he wants to confirm that in public, too. He said: I knew there were sound recordings and I assumed that they would be for a parliamentary survey. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to call them all. I didn't have them all in my 06, but I made sure that that was also partly the pattern of expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u281	But I'm not arguing that sound recordings have been made. The question is, can I get those sound recordings over the table now? As I indicated, as far as I understand, there are no sound recordings available anymore. It may still come up somewhere, but this is the information I have right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u282	Mrs. Van Esch again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u283	There's something I think is crazy. This minister says that within the OMT there are differences in views and opinions on the use of mouth caps. But in the end, the OMT decides unanimously when an opinion comes. That's how the procedure goes. I continue to find the following crazy; I wonder if this minister agrees with us. We know that several members of the OMT have expressed their critical views on the use of nose-and-mouth masks and have indicated that they have different views on them. We also know that the Ministry wanted to do certain things differently. Then how could it be that an anonymous decision from the OMT would eventually have been taken not to use it, even though we know that certain OMT members thought otherwise? That's still a crazy story. I would very much like to confirm that kind of clarification with each other tonight. We know there was different thinking in the OMT. We know that the Ministry has indeed indicated that it wanted the OMT advice to be different. Apparently, an anonymous decision was made somewhere after all. That's still crazy, I'm asking this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u284	Put together a team of scientists in a situation of great uncertainty and the chance of unanimity is not so great. There's a lot of uncertainty. They all have international networks. You're really getting your information from everywhere. Everyone brings things in and you try to come up with a great deal of uncertainty. That is not the same as a unanimous opinion. I think that's just reality. What the cabinet gets, what Dutch citizens get and what you get is advice, but the degree of unanimity is not in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u285	I don't understand something. Mr Omtzigt just said that he spoke to an OMT member who indicated to him that he thought those sound recordings would be used, including for information to the Chamber. I first heard the Minister in the debate wonder whether it could be done legally. And I just heard the Minister say: I'm just getting the message that the sound recordings are no longer available. I also saw a note slipped to him. I think that's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u286	No, that was about two different things. It was about minutes and it was about sound recordings. As I explained, there is a meeting, there is a sound recording and there will be a report. These are sound recordings used only by the OMT Secretariat to support reporting. The RIVM archives the records and not the sound recording. That's what the question was about. This is the information I have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u287	I was triggered by the word "more." May I ask why that is no longer available? 'Cause they'll be dead by then. Or I don't get it. That's a pretty good idea. 'Cause I think it's a really complicated story anyway. I just heard the Minister say: they are no longer available. So they've been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u288	Sure. At least that's the information I have. The audio recording is bugged by the minutest before drawing up the report, in case he or she wants to hear back anything else. The draft report shall be sent to members, they may respond to it and, if they agree, the report shall become final after processing any reactions and the relevant secretariat shall have removed the sound recording.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u289	Are we heading towards the end yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u290	I'm afraid not, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u291	Dick Dolman always dropped the hammer at 11:00 p.m., if necessary in the middle of a sentence, and said: so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u292	I'll do my best. Mr Omtzig asked about the lists: all departments had to draw up lists of what had to be saved, including apps; may I receive the lists of AZ, RIVM, VWS and others? Answering questions about selection lists cannot be done in the short term. I will return to that as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt also asked me to ask the Heritage Inspectorate to investigate the state of the corona archives. VWS will make a request to the PSI and Heritage Inspectorate for an inspection of the state of the corona archive. Mr Van der Staaij asked for further steps to be taken in the areas of limited decision-making, formal crisis structures and limited presence of the OMT president in decision-making, and to take a number of other steps. With a clear division of responsibility, the cabinet wants to ensure the independence and autonomy of advisors and decision-makers, as also indicated in the response to the OVV report. We then make a clearer distinction between the position of advisers and decision-makers, for example by sending OMT's and BAO's opinions to the Chamber immediately after completion. That is in line with the point that has just been discussed. Mrs Bikker asked if there was any point in getting communication and behavioral scientists to take part in the cabinet decision. Thank you for that question and that advice. This is already happening through the behavioral unit of the RIVM. There is a reflection in every decision-making process. This can also be found in the social and economic reflection your Chamber receives in response to the OMT opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u293	I saw that. Because we were always getting these huge piles of pieces somewhere in the night before the debate took place, and then somewhere in the back were indeed these comments from that behavioral unit of the RIVM, which has been doing excellent work for decades. But to be honest, I didn't see it that often. I let it dwindle: very often I didn't see how that advice was followed. That is precisely why I have thought: I would like to highlight them once again, because these people have built up a lot of expertise and I really hope that the Minister will listen very carefully to the valuable advice given from this behavioral unit after hopefully a very limited next revival. Can the Minister promise that he will be able to show us again and less in the back of the documents, which in any case will not be late in the night, what he is doing with these opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u294	Thank you. Yeah, we'd love to. That was already important and this is becoming even more important for the future, if possible. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Plas asked about relatives of patients who died of corona at the time. I realize very well how painful it is when people have lost a loved one to covid. Especially in the early days of the crisis, many poignant scenes have taken place. I can therefore very well imagine that even in view of the discussion at the time about a lack of protective equipment, even more poignant situations have arisen. Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt asked about the corona mortality rate in nursing homes and referred to the mortality rate at the start of the corona crisis in the debate. It is, indeed, extremely poignant that there has been excess mortality during the corona period and that there has also been excess mortality in nursing homes. We've talked about this before. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about this at the moment. You also refer to the numbers. You know that further investigation has been carried out. We come to talk about this separately. Then I have a wonderful question from Mr Omtzigt to one specific issue. Instead of spooning the answer, I will send it to you in writing. You just want it, I understand. In response to what you say outside the microphone: yes, I thought so! I liked to answer this question. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Tielen rightly pointed out that independence is crucial to confidence and that this requires balancing. She also referred to the OVV. The recommendations of the OVV help to further improve role stability in crisis decision-making. That is also in line with the response we have had. We sent it to the Chamber in April. In the planned debate on 15 June, we will discuss this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u295	Perhaps not coincidentally, in the letter sent by the Minister, I saw a passage very similar to the operative part of my motion, so I wondered if the Minister would make concrete proposals in his letter he sent at the beginning of June. Then we can debate it in mid-June. If that's the case, I see the Minister nodding, I'm waiting patiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u296	Good. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kuzu indicated that there would be a parliamentary committee of inquiry and asked me to be clear so that the Committee of Inquiry could do the work flawlessly. We naturally intend, in accordance with the Parliamentary Survey Act, to share with the Chamber all relevant information at our disposal. Time periods, subjects, type of documents, the amount and metadata of the information are determined by the parliamentary committee of inquiry of your Chamber. In the meantime, VWS is preparing for the forthcoming progress of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. This is also done by my colleague, the Minister for Long-Term Care. Mr President, so much for the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u297	One more question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u298	I had asked another question about who is actually liable if people have contracted long covid because in the end this OMT advice of 14 April led to not getting mouth and nose masks, while people were dealing with people in the nursing home who turned out to have corona or when loved ones of someone died. Is that the state? Or is that the employer? Or is the person entirely responsible for his own behaviour as a nurse or as a general practitioner or as a caregiver for sick people and has become ill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u299	Let me start by saying that I know that I share this with the entire Chamber....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... that I.......................... that I..... The government has been able to make best efforts to protect its citizens and to acquire as much personal protective equipment as possible in an international fighting market. You referred for a moment to the remarks made by my predecessor in that situation regarding the criticism or not of someone who addressed them as an individual party. What happened at that time was that there was a lot of competition, international but also in the Netherlands, between parties that were actually fighting for the same stock. I just called it a fight market. In that setting, as a government, we focused as much as possible on protecting citizens and considered it unlikely that the government would be liable. If there is any liability, the government does not, of course, run away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u300	In March there was a great fight and a great acute need. There were really times when there weren't even two days of protective equipment in stock for the hospitals. But this restrictive policy started with enforcement on 14 April. On 14 April the Labour Inspectorate started with a letter which was only sent on 4 May and which we only received today, and that policy continued until September. In May and June there was no shortage of personal protective equipment. We saw pictures and everything from proud ministers who had managed to do enough purchasing at the LCH. I'm interested in those months. There was enough, and yet here was the policy: we are not going to use it. Who is responsible for this? Is the employer who didn't buy the material wrong? Is that the government that did have the material, but didn't make it available? Or is that the caregiver who went to work and worked without protective equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u301	I have no choice but to give the same answer. If there is any liability, then the government does not run away from it. This would mean that this should be assessed on a case-by-case basis, which requires time and attention. But for now, there's no other way to answer this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u302	I had a feeling the Minister was at the end of his reply. It all of a sudden went a lot faster than I expected. In my first term I had actually asked one question which I would have liked to see answered. I don't think he is yet. That was the question: didn't this minister ask for it when he took office, or is it still being asked whether, in response to Wob requests and in this case Nieuwsuur, we should have concluded with each other once again in this form of debate that things should have been different? Is there any research going on now? I certainly appreciate the more than 400 pages of openness about the opinions, but I actually meant it in a broader sense. Are we looking at the missteps that have been made? I don't think it's the point of misstepping. The point is that we as a Chamber are informed about this rather than that it should be in the form we have seen now, via Wob requests and via such a broadcast of Newsuur.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u303	The answer is two-fold. The first question was: did the Minister ask when he took office? That's how you asked, if I remember correctly; otherwise you'll correct me. The answer to that is no. All sorts of things came along at my arrival, but I didn't ask this question. I did ask the second question. It was also about the Wob procedures and the amount of documents. That just came along. I have asked people within my department: can you indicate what the specific issues are per set you've gone through and sent out? The answer I received was: that is extremely difficult, because it concerns sets of tens of thousands of documents. So can I rule out the fact that at some point there are still special rules coming up through a Wob request and so on? No, I'm afraid I can't. If I say that in the meantime between 7 and 8 million documents, not pages but documents, have been requested from my department, I will tell you about the quantity. Can something come up in there again? I can't rule that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u304	Very short question. Short, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u305	Yes, very briefly, briefly. I get that, considering the amount of documents. My question was more focused on the following. We now have the debate on what went wrong. We have already had debates on this. Suppose the Ministry itself sees that there may have been missteps, can the Ministry and this Minister proactively inform the Chamber about this rather than having the whole procedure and the circle again? As far as I am concerned, that would certainly be an improvement in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u306	Yeah, I'd love to pursue that. You just want to do things in front. That is entirely the aim. The stakes have also been: after two years can we try to redesign the whole covid discussion? I've been working on that for the past four months. Let me make it very clear that it is not at all a point of criticism to my predecessor. It was a different phase. We are in a new phase now, and we must do it differently. That is what we are aiming for, but I cannot rule out the possibility that something special will happen tomorrow, next week or in a month's time. We've got some recently what was it? There have been other examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u307	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I heard a number of things that looked like a protocol, a method of working and an answer to the question of how we are going to organise this. I wonder if there could be any more explanation of that. That may also be included in a letter. But I explicitly asked the Minister about the evaluation of the route and the way in which work is being carried out. Are the OMT and later the MIT sufficiently equipped to be able to do their job? What's your assessment of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u308	At that last point we will come back separately, because that is what we are talking about now. With regard to the evaluation, I would like to refer to the debate we are about to have on the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u309	Very briefly. I didn't just refer to the evaluation of the past period. We're going back on a new path with each other now. How do we build in moments of evaluation so that we do not have this discussion again in two years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u310	Okay, clear. I hear Mrs Paulusma explicitly giving the advice: build up moments of evaluation. We can make sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u311	Fine. So much for the first term. I note that a number of colleagues have already gone home. They had to catch the train to get far home in the Netherlands. They probably had new appointments tomorrow morning. I also see a lot of small eyes in the room. A few people have to support their heads in order to stay a little upright. So I wonder out loud whether a second term is needed. Oh, come on. Oh, yeah. Mr. Omtzigt stands like a young god ready to excel again. Then we're still gonna do a second term. I'll give him the floor. I would ask the speakers, the people who do want to speak, to do so very briefly and very pointy. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u312	I have waited months for this debate and I have come back from the Council of Europe for it, so I certainly have a few things. I am grateful to the Minister for the answers I have received today. I would ask him to send the selection lists to the Chamber within a week or a week and a half. I also like to see the song. Because of the time constraints, I'm starting my two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the PSI and Heritage Inspection inspects the state of the COVID-19 hotspot archive and the hotspot lists among the main actors in the crisis and reports on them to the public before the end of summer 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1860]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u313	That goes a little further than I said, but the Minister has made a clear move on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Prime Minister deleted many texts about corona in real time, while the CIO of the Empire had explicitly requested confirmation of corona decision-making in March 2020, including apps;]] [[noting that the government held many consultations at the Catshuis and took decisions there without keeping a record;]] [[noting that the sound recordings of the OMT meetings were deleted and that OMT opinions were issued before the minutes were adopted;]] [[noting that this makes the decision-making on corona very difficult;]] [[Whereas decisions taken on corona have severely reduced fundamental rights and have had a major impact on society;]] [[calls on the government, within three weeks, to put forward proposals on all these issues to make policy decisions, especially when it comes to corona, fully traceable to the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1861]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually thought it was a very good debate. I would like to thank the Minister for his correction to the future. Unfortunately, the past may still need an excuse, so that is why we need this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that it has been found that the Ministry of Education has actively involved several OMT opinions;]] [[Whereas during press conferences the cabinet gave the impression that the opinions were independent;]] [[calls on the government to apologize to the Dutch people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1862]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u316	Thank you. Mr Kuzu, from the DENK Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Two motions from my group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that officials of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport have sent the results of OMT opinions;]] [[noting that the OVV finds that there is "a mix of scientific advice and decision-making";]] [[noting that Article 7 of the RIVM Act guarantees the independent status of scientific advice;]] [[calls on the Government to request the OMT to appoint an independent president,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1863]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u318	I would not like to enter into a semantic discussion here about the word 'independence', because I think the Minister and I understand very well what we mean. That said, the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that officials of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport have made several adjustments to OMT opinions;]] [[Whereas the OMT publishes scientific opinions through an independent group of experts;]] [[considers that any form of political interference through amendments should never take place in scientific advice without prior consultation with the responsible OMT members;]] [[calls on the Government not to amend OMT opinions without having been consulted and agreed by OMT members in the interests of confidence in decision-making and policy-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1864]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u319	Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, I should like to thank the Minister very much for his response and the movement he has made for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u320	Thank you. Then Mrs. Van Esch, from the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually only have a few brief questions, or more precisely a clarification of the questions that I have put to this Minister in the first term and also in the interruptions. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his good commitments, which I believe will be different and better in the future. I'm happy about that. I have checked whether this possible change would also apply to the OMT-Z, and by this, of course, I am referring explicitly to the OMT-Z opinions that may be forthcoming in the future. It seems logical to me that, if it applies to the OMT, it will also apply to the OMT-Z that the Ministry does not issue any further opinions on it, but of course I would like to hear that in the second term. I also welcome the undertaking that the OMT will be asked how these minutes may have been adjusted afterwards. I mean that in a broad sense. I think it would be nice to check with each other at the OMT, so not only about the one specific sentence that we have often talked about, but to ask whether and how these minutes were subsequently modified. My last point, and then I really finish, is about those sound recordings. I continue to find it apart that they have been erased, I say in all honesty. That these recordings, of such an important advisory body during the biggest post-war crisis, are no longer there, I am still surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u322	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Agema, from the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On February 20, 2020, China announced to the world that corona was airborne. It took until May 2021 before the CDC and the WHO called inhalation of virus the main route of corona. After that, it took a long time before that became commonplace in our own OMT and in our own scientific advice. It has had far-reaching consequences that the most common transmission route of corona has been denied for so long by our own OMT. Long-term inimitable advice has come to the House of Representatives. I understand there were audio recordings meant for the minutes that were erased. But there are OMT reports. They then served as the basis for OMT opinions. Those OMT reports are very important for the truth finding and the ability to track down that huge mistake that is committed in our country with aerogenic transmission. That is, in fact, still the state of play. In our neighbour Belgium, for example, it is very common to have CO-meters everywhere. This is still not the case in our country. We're still behind on other countries. For the truth finding and given the far-reaching consequences in the context of the number of people who have become infected and died, especially during the first wave, it is very important to be able to fish out what actually happened in the Netherlands. I understand that the Minister wants to identify the legal context of bringing out those OMT reports. I need that. The parliamentary committee of inquiry needs it. I expect a letter from the Minister explaining everything again. How do we get those OMT reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u324	Thank you. Then Mrs. Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u325	Thank you, Mr President. With the exception of the tail of the first term from the side of the Chamber, I thought this was a very good debate. We were really looking together for what we actually expect in processes like this. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the event of (threatening) national crises, the Minister of VWS is responsible for the policy to be pursued and that this is laid down in the Public Health Act;]] [[Considering that, in the event of an infectious disease crisis, mayors and in particular cases the Minister take policy decisions on the basis of expert opinions and that an Outbreak Management Team can be convened for this purpose;]] [[noting that the Tielen c.s. motion calls, inter alia, for a rigorous framework for the independence and autonomy of interested parties in the advisory and decision-making process so that this is ensured for the future;]] [[calls on the Government, after reaching agreement on the implementation of the motion, to come up with a proposal to strengthen the interpretation and position of the OMT, to draw lessons from examples from abroad, and to consider whether this could be given a place in the revision of the Public Health Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Tielen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1865]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u326	Mr President, I would like to thank you for raising the Chair, but I would especially like to thank the Minister for his clear answer and for his look back, in which he also mentioned what he found and how there are a number of things to put in place in time. At the same time, further investigations will also be carried out. That's what we're gonna talk about. But he is also making a number of improvements towards the future. On that point, I still have an encouragement through the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of a revival of corona contamination in the autumn, measures are again conceivable;]] [[Whereas the political choice of measures takes into account epidemiological, social and economic consequences;]] [[Whereas the Segers motion, which was adopted by the Chamber with broad support, mentioned, for example, the setting up of an Impact Management Team to advise the Cabinet from a broader perspective on the transition strategy and the social and economic impact of the crisis measures;]] [[Whereas, in this line, the Cabinet is examining the establishment of a Social Impact Team to advise alongside the OMT;]] [[calls on the government to have set up a Social Impact Team for the autumn to take an equal position alongside the OMT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Bikker, Van den Berg, Van der Staaij, Westerveld, Van Esch, Paulusma, Hijink, Omtzigt, Agema, Van der Plas, Kuzu and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1866]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u327	A small question. In fact, Mrs Bikker says that two equal teams must be side by side anyway. But the Cabinet has said to investigate. Does Mrs Bikker agree with me that there can also be many additional problems if there are two teams that, with contradictory advice, lead the cabinet astray?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u328	No, I'm not afraid of that wandering trail with this cabinet anyway, with two teams of scientists advising. I would like to express that confidence here. In addition, I think it is very important that we have seen in the OVV's opinion that the control of infectious diseases has become increasingly dominant and that it is also said there: advise wider. This call was also made at the hearing on long-term corona policy, for example by the director of the SCP. This is therefore advised from all sides. I understand very well that if we are going to take the review of the Wpg and see how you deal with such a major health crisis, we are going to look again at how to organise it. But I don't want us to be alone with an OMT again this fall. That gives absolutely valuable advice, but it must be a weighting of the entire cabinet and not just a VWS case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u329	Thank you. The closure of the Chamber today is carried out by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA, who may have a nice, warm and formal word for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u330	Well, Mr. Chairman, the only thing that comes to mind is the words of my long-dead father: don't praise the day before the evening falls. But the evening is now falling and I think we can praise the day, because we have indeed had a good debate with the Minister. In any case, I welcome the Minister's commitment to change the procedure for the OMT opinion and also to discuss with RIVM what is the most convenient and practical solution for the Presidency in a situation such as the crisis. For the rest, I have put my name under Mrs Bikker's motion, because the CDA has long advocated that we pay more attention to behavior and communication. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u331	Thank you. So much for the second term of office. In five minutes, we're gonna listen to what the Minister thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u332	At 00.00 hours the lights automatically go out, all the doors lock and the security goes home, so it's up to you to make sure we don't make that time. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u333	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, there was a question from Mr Omtzigt to send the selection lists within two weeks. I'm doing my best to get that. Then there was a question from Mrs Van Esch about the procedural change, including for the OMT-Z. I fully follow Mrs Van Esch's line. I must have the opportunity to discuss this with my colleague from LNV. You can understand how difficult it is for me to disturb him at this time of day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u334	Mrs Van Esch has another question. Short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u335	I get that. Is there going to be a feedback by letter, just more procedural?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u336	There's gonna be a feedback by letter. Mrs Van Esch also asked the OMT secretariat to ask how the minutes were amended and when. I already did. I will confirm it again: I will check it out, as promised earlier. Then Mrs. Agema asked to come back on the OMT minutes. I will come back to this separately, but with the observation that Article 68 of the Constitution is not unlimited and that some disclosures may also affect the interest of the State. I will come back to that and I expect to be able to do so next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u337	Sure. Then I ask the Minister, in the interests of the State, to consider the importance of truth finding for the people, and the importance of that truth finding for the elected representatives of the people who have been given the task of finding the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u338	Of course. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 1860 is about the hotspot lists. The request is to report on this before the summer of 2022. My request is to keep it. I need to consult the Heritage Inspectorate to see what's possible in terms of timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u339	Now I need a response from Mr Omtzigt. You can nod. Sorry, I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u340	I don't know if I'm gonna keep it on yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u341	Okay. Then the motion will remain in vigor, so I would like to have an opinion from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u342	Then the motion will be dissuaded. I'm being held to a term that I don't know in advance if I can. The motion in part No. 1861 has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1862 has also been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u343	I make a number of factual observations in the motion in part No. 1861. I was curious to see which of the factual observations gives us the problem that the government wants to discourage the motion. Does the Minister think the texts should have been deleted? Does he think there shouldn't have been a record kept at the Catshuis? Or does he think it's okay that the OMT's sound recordings are gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u344	I do not make a single statement on the points here under 'confirming' and 'considering', but on 'to make fully traceable in the future'. "All traceable," that's an impossible assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u345	This is a rather fundamental point. I think that policy decisions should be traceable to who took them, and completely traceable. So what are decisions that would not have to be fully traceable or taken? Is that a lockdown or not providing personal protective equipment? What policy decisions should not be traceable in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u346	Then we will come back to the discussion and to the points that I have just mentioned and which I will come back to next week. If I have to take a stand here and give advice, I say that "fully traceable" automatically means disclosure at the front of each individual input of each person. Then my advice is: dissuade. The verdict is of course up to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u347	Clear. So far. Shortly, Mr. Overzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u348	How far does the government intend to make things traceable? If the word "totally" comes out, do we get three proposals that will make this better?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u349	I have a motion here and I'm responding to it. It says "all traceable" and then my advice is dissuaded, for the reasons I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u350	Then we come back to the form: we interpret it in such a way that we do not have to do it. There is a serious problem with the rutte doctrine in this country. We have texts that have been erased, we have recordings that have been erased, we have missing decision lists and missing minutes of the Catshuis Council, which means it can't be traced back. In view of the rather positive things the Minister said earlier in this debate, I had hoped that the government would come up with proposals on how to prevent this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u351	Then we'll come back to the debate. I would like to mention the points I have just mentioned again, but I am not going to do that, because then we are going back and forth. I'm being asked for my input on a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u352	Then the motion to part No. 1863.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u353	The Kuzu/Omversigt motion in part No. 1863 has been dissuaded. The Kuzu/Omversigt motion in part No. 1864 gets judgment Chamber. The Tielen motion in part No. 1865 is also judged Chamber. Mr. Chairman. One more addition to the motion on item No. 1864: I give this judgment to the Chamber, with the remark that I may explain to her so that I bring to the attention of the RIVM in order to deliver an opinion only after consultation of the OMT members.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u354	Mr Kuzu nods yes, so that is a fact of state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u355	The motion in part No. 1865 gets judgment Chamber. The motion-bikker c.s. in piece No. 1866 is also judged Chamber. As part of the broad advice, a MIT is set up. In June, this will be included in a long-term letter. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u356	Thanks to the Minister. Thank you for staying with us until after midnight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-24-tweedekamer-25.u357	We shall vote on the motions on Tuesday. So much for this debate.
