ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	We shall now proceed with the debate on the European Summit of 23 and 24 June 2022. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to say how wonderful it is that the ambassadors are present. I'm glad we can do that. Like you, I am a guest here, but from one guest to another I say: welcome! A lot of questions have been asked. I want to start with Ukraine and Moldova. Then I would like to address a number of specific questions about Georgia. Then there are the general questions about enlargement. Then there is the Western Balkans. Then there is the Ukraine-Russia war. Then there's food security. Then there are a number of questions relating to the Conference on the Future of Europe. Then there are a number of vague people who have to do with the euro and the Stability and Growth Pact. A few other questions, including the questions about Northern Ireland, strategic autonomy, Poland, RRF, Turkey, Greece and structural military support for the Baltic States. So all these questions come in the closing cup. Mr. Chairman. First, the enlargement of the EU and the European Commission's decision to recommend granting candidate status to Ukraine and Moldova, at least to the European Council. The Netherlands was concerned, let me just say, that there was too much need, an almost compulsive need, to necessarily give Ukraine and Moldova that status. I understand that this is the explanation for the voting behaviour of a number of parties with regard to motions for resolutions on this matter. But in the meantime, of course, there are new developments. A new development is that we have urged the Commission to be brutally honest, especially to look at matters such as the rule of law, independent judiciary and rule of law, and to come up with a very precise assessment. So no political judgment. Do not say: there is a war and so Ukraine must become a candidate. No, the system of expansion needs to be maintained and it needs to be based on performance. Then, of course, it is always a matter of weighing. Last week, in the course of Wednesday or Thursday, we received signals from the European Commission that it would indeed be a very strong opinion on the content, but it would be, all things considered, coupled with an even longer list of actions for Moldova, a proper list of actions for Ukraine and for Georgia such a long list of actions. But the other two: candidate member. We discussed this in the Cabinet with the ministers concerned and then on Friday throughout the Council of Ministers. We said, in the end, you have to agree with each other. It's always a weighting: where is it exactly? But we are actually saying that the Commission has done a good job. I think it is handsome in the sense that there has really, sincerely, been an attempt to identify exactly what the situation is and that it has been said: listen, friends, it is now a candidate, but the actual opening of chapters will again require a unanimous decision, also on the basis of progress on these seven points. That will, of course, come up again sometime this year, or, more likely, next year when that issue is before us. I found this signal now, in a weighted, acceptable compromise between all the views of the European Union... I'm also saying this as a politician, as a professional. We are all professionals here, to a greater or lesser extent. Others have to decide if we really are. But I think the Commission has done this well. Is that a turn? I don't think so. I leave it to others to decide for themselves. I think there's plenty of evidence that if I have to make a spin, I'll just admit it. Look at my exceptionally successful intervention on dividend taxation. For example, there are a few points in my recent political past that I am really prepared to give in. But I do not think that is the case here. So it's not a word game. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, a number of questions have been asked. I'll answer those questions first. I say this because Mr Van Dijk, who just got up, might otherwise think: is that the answer to my questions? No, I'll come back to that. To begin with, there was the question whether the Netherlands was able to agree on additional conditions. I don't know. We have said to the Commission: be brutally honest. As I know, the Commission has not said: this is what we intend to do; is that enough? We have always called for clarity in the assessment. I have to say they did. I don't know if it's us. In the Volkskrant, one of the journalists said that he had information that the Netherlands had influenced this. Well, then I'm very proud, but I don't have any hard clues that that's true. Then there was the question: did the cabinet speak with one voice? Yes. I can't always do that. But we are all looking at what the Commission is coming up with with with an open eye. How harsh are these conditions, asked VVD member Brekelmans and others. In my view, it is important to note that the Commission itself says: this is crucial. They need to make enough progress on those seven points. They're gonna monitor it. This is done annually by means of an annual progress report. Of course, we're also going to keep our finger on the wrist through our embassies. The Commission's conditions are conditional on a further step in the negotiations. Then there is the question of whether it is actually an empty gesture. No, I honestly don't believe that. But I get the point about Brekelmans and I'll get back to that when we talk about the expansion system. It is, of course, now a large number of countries. Turkey has been engaged in talks since the late 1990s, when the European Union did not even exist. I think that was at the time of the European Community. Since 2004, as I recall, the chapters have also been opened. The Intergovernmental Conference then took place during the Dutch Presidency. That was 18 years ago. On the other hand, Croatia has been relatively fast. So that's kind of different. I'll get back to you on that. You must, of course, ensure that it does not lead to disappointment or that slowness leads to a kind of acidification. That is a real point. It can't be solved in one go. The PVV says: but there was that association agreement and you said that it was not about accession? I said that, and I'm still saying that. The point was that in that association agreement, the advocates of the no-vote argued for four reasons why you had to vote 'no'. That was quite consistent and this was mainly reflected in a television broadcast between then group chairmen Samsom of the Labour Party and Roemer of the SP, I say by heart. We then said that Roemer has so clearly articulated those four points. One of them was that it would be an addition to a membership. It wasn't. We have once again recorded in what, somewhat disrespectful, is called "the insert." That, of course, is not the right legal term. I'm saying by heart that in the end we even got six points in that piece. One of them was the reconfirmation that it wasn't a prefix to a membership. It was. That's right. That association agreement is independent of membership. Did I possibly say at that time that I never see Ukraine becoming a member? That could be very good. If I'm quoted like that, I'll take it. However, I would point out that geopolitical relations have been very different since the Russian invasion of Ukraine. So the more fundamental question about being, at all, the principal, for or against, has been different for different people since February 23, possibly for myself and others too. Then there were all questions about the association agreement. I treated him with that. If this is not a goat's path to membership, Mrs Van der Graaf asked for it. I don't think it's anything like that. This is also confirmed by the Commission in its opinions in the past, and I have laid down this in a new methodology, starting with the rule of law. That was the French-Dutch intervention at the beginning of 2020, in order to end up shooting at Albania and northern Macedonia. Then we said, "Let's start with the rule of law chapters." If they then slide back, if steps are taken back during the further negotiations, then you can also take steps back in the whole process. We're gonna monitor that closely. The Kamminga/Amhaouch motion is relevant for that. I hope I pronounce the name right now. I have had quite a training this morning, because I misread that name at the last notation meeting. But the Kamminga/Amhaouch motion is leading in this respect as far as we are concerned, and the embassies will also help. No, Article 42.7 does not apply to candidate countries. That was a question from Mr Van Dijk. A country cannot be at war to become a member of the European Union, but it will not become a member of the European Union. It is a question of membership, and this requirement does not apply. Of course, it must be re-examined if there is real accession, if it is to come to that. Of course, there is now the common ambition to achieve this, but it must be possible. Then access to pre-accession support. This calls for a separate decision to amend the regulation. The Commission must put forward a proposal for this. Then space must also be found in the MFK. That is not yet the case. It might be obvious, you might say, because why does one country and the other as a candidate? But basically it has to be within the existing pots. We are therefore waiting for that proposal. As soon as it's there, we'll provide it with a judgment and send it to the Chamber. Once again Brekelmans, VVD: how do we ensure that countries are not frustrated? I have already replied: we really need to ensure that the dialogue on reforms takes place properly, that if things are not going well, that we also talk about it openly and that we indeed support Ukraine and Moldova in their enlargement ambition. I also said yesterday in contact with Maia Sandu, the President of Moldova, that we are already active in Moldova with programmes; we will continue to do so. The same goes for Ukraine, of course, I said on Friday in a telephone conversation with Minister of Defence Ollongren. This also applies to the fact that we are also ready on our part to help prepare the country further, but that will simply take a long time. It is a huge journey that Ukraine must now go on and the next station is starting negotiations. Then it is really important that that progress is made on those seven points. Mr. Chairman. The one about Ukraine. Then I come to a number of questions on enlargement in general. No, about Georgia, because I'd like to do that separately. I have a few more questions on enlargement in general and on the Western Balkans. There is, of course, a connection between this issue and the Western Balkans, but I thought: so many questions have been asked, I will split it up for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	There is no misunderstanding: I understand that the countries in question are very happy with the step the government is taking, but it is quite amazing how the Prime Minister is doing this. "Could it be that I have ever said that Ukraine should never become a member of the EU? That may be, but I don't remember." Premier, it was on March 30, 2016, interview with NU.nl. And, of course, in February and March, you said that it is not a good step to make Ukraine a candidate. You've changed your mind now. You don't call that a twist. I think that's a twist, but it's possible. It's possible. Moving insight, political situation and so on. But now, with this new governance culture in mind, I want to ask the Prime Minister: be honest about that! "Then we were against, now we are in favour."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u4	Also for the new governance culture I was always open about my spins, and they belong to the profession. But I don't agree with this. That is why I am not doing so here, for the reason I have just argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u5	Well, wait a minute, there were two points. First of all, that "I don't have a memory of it." That's gonna be a little bit of a function-everywhere debate. You said in 2016: 'Ukraine must never become a member of the EU'. Do you recognize that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u6	If you quote that, that will be absolutely true. I trust Mr Van Dijk blindly. Well, that goes a little far: I trust him. But I would remind him of the new geopolitical situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u7	This is incredibly convenient, but okay. The Prime Minister has "no memory of it." This is just in an interview. Anyone can just find it on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u8	I told you, I trust you. If you say so, it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u9	Then you can just say yourself: I know I said that at the time? You can say that instead of saying, "I don't remember"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u10	Shall I be honest with you about that? We had, of course, a whole discussion about this association agreement in 2016. I was horribly annoyed by the accusations made by the opponents of that association agreement that it was an adaptation to membership. I have argued over and over again: it is not, that association agreement is not an adaptation to membership. And it seems to me that I was also excluded from the idea that, apart from that association agreement, Ukraine should not become a member at all. I assume that immediately from Mr Van Dijk. But above all, I am very keen to see my annoyance from that moment because it was said that the association agreement would be an adaptation to membership. It's not that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u11	I call that a twist. You can make a spin, but be honest about that. And now I'm going to the content. Because the question remains: is it wise to make Ukraine a candidate today? Firstly, you are dealing with other candidate countries. They say, "Hey, now we're getting passed." Look at Kosovo, look at Bosnia. And you have the point the Prime Minister himself mentioned: can it not lead to a damper? Couldn't it be a pacifier if over an x-number of months or years it turns out that actual membership isn't there at all? How do you deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u12	I have just answered that question. That's a joint search. In 2019 France and the Netherlands had long talks about the expansion system at all. At that time, we agreed in Europe that we should always start with the rule of law. This was also necessary to solve the problems surrounding Albania and northern Macedonia. We said: listen, we always start with the whole issue of the rule of law, an independent judiciary, rule of law, so with the basic constitutional conditions for membership of the European Union. These constitutional conditions will then continue to be the guiding principle in the accession negotiations. You can also see that in the Commission's avis that is a big issue. So it will be important to see progress at that point. At the same time, I can see that the current Ukrainian Government is very much aware of this. I had a long discussion with President Volodymyr Zelensky on Monday before the Commission delivered its opinion, that is, the Monday before that Thursday and Friday. That Thursday we started hearing rumors and on Friday it came out. That Monday, Zelensky had just had a visit from Von der Leyen. He told me about these talks with Von der Leyen, and that they had concentrated very strongly on the rule of law. Then I said: do you realize that whatever happens, the rule of law is an essential point, not just for Ukraine, but at all in the enlargement system? That is new in that sense that you not only start with that, but that you also open new chapters only when there is enough progress. And you can also slide back when you are negotiating on very different things, and it still goes wrong on those constitutional issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u13	I love it all, but it does not affect the issue of enlargement fatigue either. Look at the European Union itself. Look also at the inhabitants of the Netherlands, who are critical about this kind of thing. And that's why I found "Watch out"! The Prime Minister's line was quite sensible until a month ago. Until a month ago he said: no, we should not do candidate membership, but we should look at variants to improve cooperation with Ukraine. I call it the Eastern Partnership. I refer to the Council of Europe. I thought that was a wise line. You left it, but I would like to continue to follow that line. I'd like to ask you to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u15	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Piri. Then come Mrs Maeijer and Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u16	I think it is clear that the cabinet has taken a different view. And there's nothing wrong with that. Anyone who had asked me six months ago if I was in favour of enlargement with these countries and for accession to the European Union would have heard: no. So that can and with changing position is nothing wrong in itself. But I wonder what ultimately has been decisive. Has that been the position that the cabinet has been calling on for weeks, namely: we are waiting for the Commission's opinion? The Prime Minister also argued here that the Commission's opinion was of great importance. Or did the fact of the matter make it clear that these three largest countries, with Draghi, with Scholz, with Macron, have given such a clear signal, and the Prime Minister could not do otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u17	Leading here is the European Commission. We had a big debate here on Monday after the terrible raid in Ukraine. At that time, I also said in the debate that I was afraid that the President of the European Commission would come to a recommendation for membership on the basis of what would ultimately be necessary. That also seemed to be the communication from Brussels. We have talked a lot about this in the months after that. I think that the final piece of the Commission's work now, with all the conditions, with the seven tough points that need to be improved, with the great emphasis on the rule of law, is simply a good piece of work. That's one. Two is that we always knew that there were countries in Europe that were very doubtful, including the Netherlands, Denmark, Portugal, France, Belgium and Germany. There were also countries on the east side that said: candidate membership, no matter what happens. There were also countries that said: we want candidate membership, but we have to get out of it. I have said quite a long time myself: we must reach unanimity in the European Council in any case; that is crucial. If it were the case that the Commission came to the conclusion that it could not now or with an incomplete piece leading to "it may" but not sufficiently based on the underlying facts, then there is another route, namely that you are now making the appointment to work on a roadmap to get candidate membership as soon as possible. That was also a variant that I had quite a long time in mind if the Commission did not give sufficient substance to a positive opinion. The fact remains that you all have to agree, so let's separate ourselves from what the big countries are doing. This may well be indicative for a number of smaller countries. That's true, too. If these countries agree, this often affects the position of other countries. No one wants to be alone either on the positive side or on the negative side. That's clear, too. It's all part of the game. Finally, for us, the quality of the Commission document has weighed the most heavily, in the contacts I have had with the people in the cabinet who are working on this in particular and also on Friday in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u18	Okay, that makes sense. I repeat the Prime Minister's words: in the end, the Commission's opinion was leading. If you look at the Commission's earlier judgements, you will see that the Netherlands never found that leading. For example, the enlargement of the Schengen area to include Romania and Bulgaria. The Commission has said since 2011 that we should do so, but the Netherlands does not think so. Since 2018, the Commission has judged that Kosovo meets all the criteria for visa liberalisation. To this day, the cabinet judges: they do not. I can give you many examples. Does the Prime Minister find it strange that there is the impression that perhaps not the Commission's opinion, but the pressure of the other countries was leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u19	Everyone is judging, but it is not the case that the Dutch Government always follows the Commission's judgment. We are following the Commission if we think it is right. I think what's in there right now is a good piece. It's not always like that. Here's a good piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u20	It's gonna be a word game like this. But if the Prime Minister now shares the Commission's assessment of these three countries and the corresponding criteria, can I assume that if Georgia meets the criteria which the Commission is now saying it must comply with, if the Commission finds it to comply at some point, then the Netherlands will adopt them? Otherwise, there is really no longer any level to be drawn on what is the position and what is leading the Dutch cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u21	Well, not automatically. That is what we do when we believe that the Commission is really doing its best to demonstrate that this is the case. I hope that's true. Georgia is now a potential candidate. I hope, of course, that they will be able to take the next step. Look at Schengen. In a number of countries, we have always said that the control and verification mechanism and progress in these areas are very important to us, as in the case of Bulgaria and Romania. We've always chosen a consistent position in that over the past 11 years. But in this case I think the Commission has done a good job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u22	I think the Prime Minister's trying to talk right here, which is pretty crooked. Not only did the Prime Minister say here in the Chamber "I am opposed to EU membership, now or in the future, of Ukraine," but he also promised to oppose this membership personally here in the Chamber. Mr. Prime Minister, you promised resistance, and now we're giving candidate membership to Ukraine. I think that's a real turn of events. I don't have another word for it. But my question is: what do you say to the people at home, to whom you promised that resistance, when you are now putting the opposite on the table? What do you say to the people at home who see another promise broken?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u23	Then I say that the association agreement had nothing to do with Ukraine's membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u24	That is too easy, because I am not talking about the association agreement. This may have been in the debate on the EU association agreement, but this was very specific about resisting Ukraine's membership. That is exactly what this first step is now a pre-requisite. The Prime Minister is doing exactly the opposite of what he promised years ago here in the Chamber and to the people at home. That's a twist, that's a whole different thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u25	I have just discussed this with Mr Van Dijk. The association agreement was not about membership and was not about membership, but that was what PVV, SP and others all claimed. That's one. Second. If it is at all about how to enlarge the European Union, even towards Ukraine, the world has of course changed since February. We can deny all that and say that nothing is going on, but there is a geopolitical war going on between Russia and Ukraine right now, which has far-reaching implications and ramifications for our part of Europe. In that light, I do not think you can say that Ukraine should never become a member. But it has to meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u26	The latter is indeed an answer to my question. That's just a completely different point of view from what you said years ago. Then there's my second question. The Prime Minister just said that it is important to achieve unanimity and that this is actually the aim. But if unanimity is to be achieved in the European Council, is it more important to reach consensus than to do what you have promised here in the Chamber and to the people at home, namely to oppose Ukraine's membership of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u27	There are two things that are mixed up here. First of all, I would like to point out that the world has changed. Of course, you can weigh that differently. Mrs Maeijer will weigh the events of 23 February from her party differently from me, but I think that is a very big moment in our world history. It is the largest conflict in Europe since the Second World War. The only thing that comes close to it is the terrible Yugoslavian war, but I think this is even bigger in its overall size. This requires a reweighting of the importance of the European Union. How do you deal with countries that have the ambition to join? If you can't take that into account in your position, so that you take into account the fact that things are happening in the world, that would be crazy. I invite Mrs Maeijer to consider that as well. That's one. The second question is, of course, how do you deal with the situation in Ukraine? Where are they at the moment? I think they still have a very long way to go. We have a long way to go at all until we can start membership negotiations. I think the Commission is right that there is sufficient progress to give candidate membership. Then Ukraine must take action to show that the negotiations themselves can be started.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u28	What I find a little complicated about the Prime Minister's reasoning is that he is almost proud that he has asked the Commission: be brutally honest. The question, however, is: was the Dutch government itself brutally honest? It has been literally said, by the Prime Minister and by members of his cabinet, that they do not think it is a good idea. In this debate, the Prime Minister explains the course of events more as a tactical manoeuvre to ensure that the quality of the Commission's work is improved. However, that cannot be both.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u29	I have just tried to respond to this by saying that our concern was, especially shortly after the raid, that the European Commission was too concerned with candidate membership for purpose. I found that detrimental to the system of enlargement. We have always said to the Commission: make sure you are as open and honest as possible. That's probably what they were planning on doing a long time ago. I am not saying that it is because of us that there is a good piece, but at least I am glad that it is in line with the demands we have made. At the same time, behind the scenes, I discussed with countries the question: are there other forms that you can offer Ukraine on the road to accession? For example, you can arrange a kind of roadmap if it turns out they are not yet sufficiently ready. You can now see that the Commission shows that they are at least ready for membership. I believe that the Commission has lied to our concern that it has been over-targeted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u30	I hate to say it, but now the Minister is really turning away from the answer. You can very well ask the Commission to go through a process carefully. You can easily say that an assessment must also be merit-based.That was also the point that was emphasised from Ukraine itself without adding that you don't think it is a good idea as the Netherlands itself. That's what happened. So, again, my question: was the Dutch government brutally honest about its stance on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u31	I think so. We always say that countries in Europe can become members of the European Union. Because we were very concerned about whether the Commission would reach a judgment on the basis of objective facts, we said: it is not an end in itself that they should be given candidate membership. It is not an end in itself that they become members of the European Union. It is an end in itself to deal properly with every country that has that ambition, especially when such a country is at war.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u32	I don't think we're getting all together on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u33	I'm gonna have to live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yes. I think the Prime Minister should be aware that this is now also an open invitation to the Dutch Parliament to table a motion before each cabinet decision asking the cabinet to be brutally honest. This seems to improve the quality of decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the second point, before I come to the issue of Georgia. That's that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u36	Excuse me. There's another afterburner from Mr. Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yes, I have one more question on this point. Additional requirements have been laid down. Of course, countries in the Council may say: these additional demands need to be less harsh; we already want a perspective on negotiations. Can the Prime Minister promise that he will say on behalf of the Netherlands that it is essential for us that the additional requirements are really at the heart of the conclusions and the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yes. I have not yet seen any draft conclusions, but for tomorrow, I believe that the Commission's opinion will be taken on board. This includes the need for Ukraine to make progress on the next steps. The next steps are exactly what Mr Brekelmans says, namely that this progress must be made. This is, of course, based on a Commission judgment, which we ourselves must assess whether we agree with, and where there is no automaticity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u39	That is indeed my second question. The Prime Minister has just described that the Netherlands is also prepared to take a stand on this issue if the European Commission's assessment is insufficient. I can just imagine that if there is no such progress and Ukraine, for example, remains in a difficult situation, there will be pressure in a year's time in terms of: "Shouldn't we start these negotiations already? Because Ukraine needs that." Then I think it is important that the European Commission remains objective in this and, if not, that the Netherlands can take a stand on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u40	Yes. Look, the Commission has now formulated these seven criteria. There must be sufficient progress to be able to negotiate. If the Commission comes up with its opinion, in this case leading to the opinion of granting candidate status, then it must also find its substance in the justification; we believe that this is the case. This is true again when the Commission says that they are now far enough away from opening chapters. Then we'll have to look at that again. Then again it is not automatic, just as it was not last Thursday and Friday. A single question on enlargement and enlargement fatigue. I think I've pretty much answered them by now. Mr Kuzu asked whether the whole decision-making mechanism should not be reviewed. First of all, I agree with him that the EU perspective for countries obviously has a major impact on the future of the Union itself, both administratively and financially, but also on the internal market. So it is also important that we keep looking closely at it. This also means that we need to see whether the decision-making system is still functioning. Now the net has been revised under pressure from France and the Netherlands, in 2019. So I don't want to say that we're going to go over it again, but I do think it's necessary to keep looking at things with each other. We naturally also take into account the ideas that exist in France about the European Political Community, the EPG. By the way, that is not what some Members of Parliament feared it was. I heard, among other things, Mr Baudet, and I do not think it is at all. It is precisely to give countries that are much looser associated with the European Union a chance to relate to the European Union in a slightly lighter form of cooperation, in other words, Norway, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and also countries that are now candidates. This in addition to existing instruments that often lead to market cooperation, such as the Eastern Partnership, the association agreements, the agreements we already have with Norway and the Treaty of Accession with England, with the question of how this could lead to these countries being somehow linked to the internal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u41	But does the Prime Minister not agree with me that the spirit that breathes that whole part of Macron is the opposition to Russia and that it is explicitly implied that Russia is not a European country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u42	Just as Kazakhstan is for a quarter of Europeans, I believe that Russia is also for a quarter of Europeans and Turkey for a quarter. They are countries which, of course, are also partly located in Asia. The facts show that they are partly in Europe. That's where they're on the map. Furthermore, I do not think that Macron means that. In my conversations with him, it is really what I just said, namely: how can you let these countries be more detached from the European Union, still involve them more in the Union without becoming a member? There is already market cooperation going on and then it is often more about the political processes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u43	Well, let me ask you a different question. Does Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister, agree with me that there is now a very strong self-definition in Europe to define himself and the EU as a value community in opposition to Russia? Does he see it that way, or does he not see it that way at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u44	No, I don't want to give that honor to Russia. Russia has an economy as big as the sum of Belgium and the Netherlands. Then you make them very big. It is, of course, an important country because it is an atomic power. It is a country that is now guilty of a terrible form of aggression towards Ukraine. That leads to an enormous number of casualties. I find that really reprehensible. But Europe is more important than Russia. That is in the sense that we are not just going to define ourselves in relation to Russia. Russia's over there. For the future, too, we will always have to consider what kind of relationship we are developing with Russia. At the moment, of course, the Germans say that this relationship has been discussed because of the conflict. That's inevitable. But it is not the case that we are now building all the structures in Europe on that conflict; that would also be strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u45	Now the Prime Minister is going to read the word 'only' in my question and then answer it. I understand that the European Union does not define itself exclusively in opposition to Russia. The European Union is also doing other things, such as the euro coin or something. But I think there has been a fairly clear trend for some time now in which the EU world and the Atlantic world define themselves in opposition to Russia. The remarkable thing about this is that Russia, and certainly Putin too, explicitly presents itself as a "connection" to Europe and the European world. He did that last weekend in his big speech in Saint Petersburg. That's why I'm asking. I think it is more important to think about this than just some sort of sophistication. I think it's important to just observe and see that. The European world, by which I mean the EU, and the Atlantic world, the American security community and the American empire, do not want Russia there. That is the case when Russia itself has consistently indicated that it wishes to do so. Does the Prime Minister recognize this reading of history?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u46	No. It is also a bit strange that Russia apparently begs to be taken seriously and then apparently for that reason invades Ukraine. That's crazy, isn't it? I don't believe that. At the moment, this relationship is at the heart of this terrible war, the greatest post-war aggression on the European continent. We can't brush this away, can we? But that's now. What Baudet asks me is: are you going to be a Europe in the longer term too, hoping that this conflict will one day... I will come back to it, but of course our support for Ukraine is also aimed at winning that war and not Russia. Ukraine did not start this war. Russia started this war. It's all about Ukraine winning that war. We wish them every support. That's the kind of support we give. We'll talk about that in a minute. But for the longer term, Russia is where it is. This means that, in the longer term, we need to ask ourselves again what this relationship is with Russia. Then you're not going to build all the European institutions on a certain enemy image of Russia. If that is the case now because of this war that we totally reject, then of course that is inevitable. But you don't build your institutions on that in the long run. That would be weird, too. However, in Mr Baudet's question, I find it rather odd that he is now saying that Mr Putin has almost begged to belong to Europe. I think that's a crazy way of begging. In the meantime, you're responsible for a massive raid in your neighborhood. You're walking a country with 40 million people underfoot. That's a crazy combination. On the one hand, therefore, you want the support of Europe and you want to belong to it. The entire Russian history also shows this, from Tchaikovsky to the great philosophers and the great Russian literature. Some of them are also rooted in European tradition, of course. And at the same time, you'd start a war like that. That's a crazy way to get attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u47	Of course, I see that differently. I don't see Russia getting started at all. Ukraine started in 2014, when Ukraine became an American vassal state and started bombing civilian targets in eastern Ukraine, killing more than 13,000 civilians. So I have a very different view of the origin of this conflict. There is no indication that Russia wants to trample all over Ukraine. In that context, I also made that remark about the relative flexibility of Russian action. Because if Russia had wanted to conquer all of Ukraine, they would have bombed Kiev immediately and immediately started a full blitzkrieg. That's not the point at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u48	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u49	So I have a completely different reading on that. In my view, it is a glimpse, and the Prime Minister has apparently also been victimized, to look at Russian action in this one-sided way. It is also remarkable that we were not even allowed to watch Putin's speech in the European Union territory. You see, all these channels are tied up. So we can't even take that information anymore. I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister: keep looking for the other side of this story. Ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries on earth. In fact, it is no longer a sovereign country, but a colony governed by the U.S. Department of State. A completely different agenda is being held there than the propaganda is now telling us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u50	Would you like to come to a question, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u51	I therefore call once again on the Prime Minister to listen to the other side. After all, we are now being messed up in a wretched war, which is once again unwinnable for Ukraine. The longer this continues artificially, the more innocent people will die.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u53	I was right about Syria before. Now you're gonna see the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u54	That was a long time, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u55	It should be noted that Mr Baudet's analysis of what happened in 2014 and of the role that America would play in Ukraine is not mine. In my view, the way in which Mr Baudet is expressing this is not helping the Russian case either. Maybe that's what he thinks he's doing with Putin, but if Putin were to look back on this part of the debate, he'd think, "Oh, Mr Baudet, this doesn't help me either, because this really doesn't believe anyone anymore! So these last few minutes have to be broadcast a lot. They are extremely useful to show how that works and also how not to do it. But back to the facts. To this end, there is a strategic long-term question of how we, as Europe, deal with a great neighbour such as Russia. That is a long-term issue. In the short term, it is inevitable that this will, of course, be the key to this terrible conflict and this aggression we condemn, and the desire that Ukraine wins this war. But that does not mean that we are making choices about our arrangements in the European Union only in that key. We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u56	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u57	I have one more interruption, if I counted it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yes, correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u59	I'm gonna throw it over another bow one more time. Does the Prime Minister recognize my analysis that, after the Second World War and the redesign of, say, Europe, there were actually two tracks? You had the Council of Europe, which ultimately led to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and the broad Europe, which Russia had to be an explicit part of. On the other hand, the ECSC, which later became the EU, should not be a part of Russia. So when the European institutions were born, there were two ideas. You had the pan-European idea, including Russia, in which Europe would be a kind of bridge between America and Russia and so on. And you had the idea of: no, Western Europe in fact as an economic bloc, as an extension of NATO against Russia. Does he recognize that lecture of mine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u60	Well, not quite, because what he forgot in that lecture is that the Soviet Union, so Russia as it was called until, let's say, 1990/1991 I'm not quite sure, I thought it was officially closed by Christmas 1990 - the Soviet Union as it was called then, manifested along two lines in its international ambitions. You had the Warsaw Pact; that was the total submission of a number of countries in Eastern Europe where there were revolutions. I'm just gonna finish up here. Would you like to hear it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u61	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u62	I do not think that the Warsaw Pact was just a reaction to it. Because you saw, of course, after the war, whether it was in the GDR, in Prague or in Budapest, or in Bucharest, where the then party chief, in the late 1960s, was trying to give the impression that he was heading his own course, which is not really true either. But what you see, of course, is that Russia - which manifests itself in '56 and '68 with the suppression of revolutions and also in '82 in Poland - in the form of the Soviet Union was oppressive in that part of Europe. That's the military alliance. In addition, there was the Comintern, which tried to export wider than just Europe, which was also world-wide, the internationally functioning socialism. Of course, it is not the case that the ECSC was merely a reaction to that. The ECSC was set up to prevent another war in Europe from arising from the idea that coal and steel are the most important raw materials for a war. The idea was of course: if France and Germany manage these products together, they can no longer attack each other. That was also successful, because there has never been war in Europe, at least in our part of Europe, to this terrible aggression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr President, back to the issue of enlargement. Most of the questions have been answered by now. Indeed, we must prevent you from getting into such a lingering conflict. Well, it's not conflict, it's just such a dragging situation as we have with Turkey. I understand that, of course, but well, of course, there have been developments in Turkey, which ultimately reduced the support base under what started in 2004. Then there was a request for Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan on this point. Yes, in principle, any member of the European Union can apply for membership, but as far as I know these countries have not expressed that ambition, and then, of course, it has to be looked at again. I have answered the question about Macron's plan for a European political community. I have answered the questions about enlargement fatigue. In my view, that brings me to Georgia. I think the Commission is right to analyse the extent to which Georgia now meets all the criteria. What they are actually saying is that for Ukraine and Moldova it is now so far that you can say 'candidate membership', and for Georgia that is really different. There are conditions to be met before accession can take place. This compares that position with Bosnia and Herzegovina's current position. Here too, 14 conditions must be met before candidate membership can be forgiven. I do not think there is any preferential treatment. It is also not unusual for applicants to have immediate membership. We have seen this before in Montenegro and Serbia. Countries have also become candidate countries at once, from application for membership. But there are also examples, such as Bosnia and now Georgia, where it is said that there is still homework to be done first. They're not out of the boat either. They will also be treated very seriously in the European Council in the coming days. They belong to the European family. This is of great symbolic value, including obtaining that European Union perspective. I think that is also an important signal to Russia. At the same time, it is an important signal that we want to continue to do the enlargement of the European Union on the basis of merits and that Georgia simply has more homework to do. For this, of course, the Netherlands is trying to help where it can. Once again, I think that the Commission's analysis is well documented and that, from the point of view of strict, fair and involved, the Netherlands would very much like to continue to help. That is what we are doing with the Human Rights Fund. We support projects in the area of media freedom and the rights of the Ihbtiqa+ community in Georgia. Mr. Chairman. This inevitably brings me to the very complex issue of the Western Balkans, because everything that is happening in the coming days and also in recent weeks resonates there. That's along different lines. Firstly, the situation in Bosnia has rightly been asked for. There are, of course, concerns about the situation with Republika Srpska. That's what we've been asked about. That situation is worrying and it is currently undermining Bosnia and Herzegovina's stability. This stability is very important to us. I myself had a chance to see the President of Bosnia here a few weeks ago. The Netherlands and Bosnia are of course very close because of the terrible history with Srebrenica. That had one positive in all the terrible misery, and that is that the bond between the Netherlands and Bosnia has been forged for eternity. But the fact is that there are concerns about stability. In addition, North Macedonia and Albania have long been trying to start negotiations. Albania could do the same; no one is blocking it. It is only blocked for northern Macedonia and most European Member States link them up. They say: it's complicated if you start Albania now, but North Macedonia is still blocked by the Bulgarians. This has to do with a number of issues, including the nature of the language in northern Macedonia and a number of other historical issues. Today it seems to be early days a political breakthrough in Bulgaria with the declaration of the largest opposition party, led by Bojko Borisov. He said: I embrace the French compromise. That was a few hours ago. At the moment, I cannot judge whether that is enough, because there are also issues that are still going on around the ruling coalition, which his party is not in. We're gonna see if that can provide the hoped breakthrough. That would be fantastic, because that would allow us to open these negotiations, which would lead to further stabilisation of the political situation in northern Macedonia. That's my valuation. The Netherlands is indeed trying to help, through the Germans, through the French and directly. I was there myself a few weeks ago. We are in close contact with the government there, both with the Prime Minister and with the President. But that also applies to other European countries, because we are all trying to prevent this blockade from continuing from Bulgaria. But in the end, they must lift that blockade. We have major problems with this blockade and we therefore support the French Presidency in its efforts to get it out of the way. We are, of course, committed to the EU membership perspective of the Western Balkans. That is also not affected by what is now being decided on Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. Also here: strict, fair and involved. Specifically for Kosovo, I fully understand Kosovo's wish to introduce visa-free travel. But visa liberalisation is a technical process, in which we must follow the procedure correctly. As soon as the subject comes on the European agenda, the Netherlands is ready to see if Kosovo has met the conditions. I must say that it is extremely helpful that the Kosovar Government has expressed a positive opinion and has committed itself to combating corruption and organised crime. It is important that results are achieved, but we are ready to review the situation around Kosovo on the basis of documents. By the way, with my information, that is a QMV file, as it is called. I'll take a look. As far as the Western Balkans are concerned, I have tried to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u65	First of all, this is good to hear, should there be a breakthrough in Bulgaria today. As the Prime Minister also knows, a number of Western Balkan leaders are considering simply not coming to the summit because they are deeply disappointed. I can imagine that. Then there is the question of Kosovo. The annotated agenda states that no decisions are taken on visa liberalisation. At the same time, I know that some Member States are going to propose this. According to the same European Commission, which the Prime Minister was equally pleased about, Kosovo has been meeting 95 technical conditions for visa liberalisation as the last country in the Western Balkans for four years. If that is the case, is the Prime Minister prepared to say that the Netherlands would support that step?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u66	No. Then I will say that I want a new judgment from the Commission, including our concerns about corruption and organised crime. I hope, then, that the information we get about the growing commitment of the Kosovar Government to solving these problems will be able to resolve the problem relatively quickly. This cannot be done in the coming days, but relatively quickly. Again, it is not just about the Netherlands, but it is wider. As far as my information is concerned, it is a matter for decision by qualified majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u67	In any case, it is good that the Prime Minister has indicated that the Western Balkan countries will be given fair consideration. In particular, I would like to thank him for the fine words he has spoken about the relationships that the Netherlands will maintain forever with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Prime Minister has also been in talks with the Bosnian Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u69	Sorry, Mr. President. He also spoke about the instability that is currently caused by the attitude of Bosnian-Serb leadership. He has expressed his concern about this. However, we can see that this is happening structurally. I wonder when the moment will come for the Prime Minister that there will be consequences for the actions of Bosnian-Serb leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u70	It is not that we are going to mobilise our troops, if that is what Mr Kuzu means. It is important that we try to manage things there. We do this not by making great declaratory statements, but by trying to help behind the scenes to get Dodik and the Republika Srpska back on the path of Bosnia and Herzegovina's unity. That is, of course, a fragile whole. We know that. The whole construct is fragile, but it's the best we have right now. It is very important that all parts of it, the people and the groups, try to return to that cooperation with each other. Republika Srpska must also make a positive contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u71	I agree with the Prime Minister. We're not supposed to deploy our troops. After all, we have a bad track record on that. I don't want to refer to that. But what matters is that we have seen in the past period that the situation of Bosnian-Serb leadership has not changed, despite the good intentions of the Prime Minister and of several European leaders. Just because we're trying to manage it is fine. We can do that by condemning it, by preaching with our tongues, but then it is important that there should be a moment when you act. I have sometimes tabled a motion in the past that, if necessary, personalised measures are taken towards, for example, a Dodik. Is that something that can be taken a step further by the Prime Minister at the next European summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u72	One. Although the Netherlands tries to contribute to stability in all kinds of places, it does not always succeed. Still, we have to keep trying. In the case of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course, there is a very important relationship. That is directly Europe and potentially European Union. This also includes the fact that there is no point in me saying very tough things now to answer Mr Kuzu's second question directly. With that, I'm not contributing anything to an acceleration of the solution. There's no point in that becoming news there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u73	Good to hear from the Prime Minister that the Netherlands plays an active role in bringing Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia closer together. This is also important for Europe's credibility. Bulgaria is finally the first country to have recognised North Macedonia. Back to Kosovo and visa liberalisation. I understand that there are still a number of countries, including the EU, that have not yet recognised Kosovo. To what extent is this an obstacle to visa liberalisation? Or is it not under discussion and is this purely a technical aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u74	I'll get that checked out. Perhaps I could ask the administration if it could be provided during my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u75	Or in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u76	Otherwise, I'll come back to it in the second term. I am not entirely sure whether there is a link between the recognition of Kosovo and the issue of visa liberalisation. For the Netherlands, the point I just mentioned is the fight against corruption and organised crime. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the terrible war between Russia and Ukraine. Yes, I say to Mr Sjoerdsma, our goal is that Ukraine wins that war. We'll have to do anything for that. This also means that the international community must remain firm. By the way, I am concerned about the extent to which we manage to keep important parts of the world on our side, such as parts of Africa, parts of Asia and parts of Latin America. We're all working hard on that. Questions from Mr Dassen touched more on the situation in Africa, including in the area of food security. Mr President, perhaps I can answer all the questions about Ukraine briefly first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u77	Perhaps first all the questions about the war and then Mr Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u78	It has been asked to add anti-corruption sanctions to the regime, or to set up a separate anti-corruption regime. During the negotiations on the EU's human rights sanctions regime, we advocated the inclusion of corruption as a listing criterion. At the time, there was insufficient support for this. A separate EU sanctions regime against large-scale corruption is now under consideration. We are in favour of this. That is what we are actively promoting in the discussions. My statement on "our war" is, of course, just as some Members of Parliament have said, not meant that we are literally at war. It means that this is a fight that is directly about how we want to defend a civilized country like Ukraine against uncivilised aggression and how we want to contribute to it. It's also about how you stop this type of aggression, because it would get some ID if you didn't. We have also said that we want to prevent NATO from coming into direct conflict with Russia. Of course, it is important that a peace agreement is reached in the long term, but it is now up to Ukraine to decide when and under what conditions these negotiations will take place. Of course, it is important that Ukraine has the best negotiating position until that negotiation comes. That is why we are doing everything we can to help Ukraine. I certainly expect discussion at this European Council on how we can continue to support it, including military. You know our position: maximum support for Ukraine and maximum pressure on the Russian Federation. This includes military support, in line with the Sjoerdsma/Brekelmans motion on maximum deployment last week. That was confirmed this week by Wopke Hoekstra, the Foreign Minister, at the Foreign Affairs Council. On 19 May, I said something about arms supplies. That was very much about the discussion about the armored haters and that there is a limit to what you can deliver to very heavy equipment. That's not black and white. We have to look at that over and over again. That is therefore a case-by-case assessment. Sometimes we bring it out and sometimes we don't. It also depends a little on what's wise in that. We keep looking at what's necessary and what we can do. It is true that in the end there is also a limit to what you can deliver yourself. Luckily, we're not there yet. The European Peace Facility allows Member States to support Ukraine in the military field. It now covers some 2 billion, including 160 million for non-lethal aid and 1.84 billion for lethal aid: fuel, medical equipment and protective clothing. What you see now is that this package is almost exhausted, but at the same time Ukrainian needs are still very high, while the course of the war is still unpredictable. We want to continue to support Ukraine as long as necessary. That is in line with the wishes of the Chamber. So we'll be watching again in the next few days, and otherwise soon, how to proceed with the ESPF. As a result, Mr Brekelmans asked about the possibilities for a structural increase in the production of arms in Europe. I agree with the ambition in his question and also with the need under that ambition. The European Commission has put forward proposals for this. This can be done, for example, through improved cooperation in joint procurement of defence capabilities. We keep saying we need the best stuff. That could also be non-European stuff. Very important to the Netherlands remains that small and medium-sized enterprises can benefit from the arms industry. The Sjoerdsma motion is a stand-alone policy, as I have already said. I have already replied that we are always looking at what we can do. As we are now handing over armored haters to Ukraine after training. The question is: are you prepared to veto a memorandum or understanding on energy cooperation between Israel, Egypt and the European Commission? No. We support the EU measure to reduce dependence on Russian oil. That is also what the new REPowerEU strategy is about. EU-Israel cooperation is frequent and enshrined in an EU-Israel association agreement. This MoU fits in there. Then there is Mr Sjoerdsma's question as to whether we are prepared when the gas tap closes further. I think this crisis makes it clear that we need to reduce our dependence. This has been at the top of the European agenda for months. This is also underlined by Russia's recent behaviour. This means playing the whole organ: accelerating the energy transition, energy saving and diversification of energy suppliers. Of course, this was also the subject of the letter of inquiry on the situation in the Netherlands, which was sent on Monday in connection with the press conference of the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Secretary of State for Mining, Mr Jetten and Mr Vijlbrief. This is the stage of the so-called early warning, where filling the European gas storage for the coming winter is very crucial. The Netherlands does not oppose the joint procurement of gas. We did say this had to be voluntary. So no obligations. This has to do with the fact that the European gas market is very complex, with a lot of players, and compulsory procurement can lead to problems. Then there's the oil transport ban. With the last sanction package, it is prohibited to cooperate as an EU company in any way in the transport of oil to third countries. A ban on oil transport insurance has also been adopted by parties in the European Union. We are now talking to partners inside and outside the European Union about how we can make it even more difficult for Russia to make money from oil exports to third countries. We would be in favour of a seventh sanction package. We must also pay attention to the EU unit. The previous sanction package, the sixth, was not easy to achieve, as you know. We must also ensure that the measures are effective and that the measures we have already taken are implemented as effectively as possible. However, we call for continued preparations for such an additional sanction package. I think we should also establish, I say to Mr Van der Lee, that sanctions will only be effective if we take them at EU level. This also has to do with the functioning of the internal market and the agreements on the division of roles in Europe. Mr. Chairman. Two more questions on this point. We were asked what opportunities we see to contribute to the reconstruction of Ukraine, such as adopting a city. We've talked about that before. We are very much in favour of strengthening urban links with Ukraine. Of course, the responsibility for this lies with the UNG. We are now working on the preparations for a Dutch contribution to reconstruction. A debate on this will take place on 7 July with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Schreinemacher. These issues will also be further addressed. Finally, I come to Kaliningrad and Lithuania. Unlike the Russian claim, there is no overall blockade of persons and goods to and from Kaliningrad. Lithuania complies with the sanctions policy agreed within the European Union. That could be the case. There's no way to predict that. Anyone can raise anything. But it is not explicitly on the agenda of tomorrow's European summit and the day after tomorrow, I say to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u79	Thank you. Then we will first listen to Mr Eppink of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u80	I would like to ask about the effectiveness of the sanctions. We can see that Russia is delivering less, but gas and oil prices have risen to such an extent that, in the case of less supplies, it actually receives more money. At the same time, exports of oil, gas, coal and so on to China and India have increased enormously. It reaches record heights. So I wonder if this will not make the Kremlin richer, while we, the home front, if I may call it that, have inflation, purchasing power reduction and a possible recession. Has there been any figures on the impact of these sanctions on our citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u81	First of all, of course, you already saw price increases in the energy markets for the Russian raid in Ukraine. We have never claimed that sanctions packages will immediately lead to the end of the war. It really is a long time, including in terms of sanctions. We know that the sanctions affect the Russian top disproportionately, including the sanctions via SWIFT, the banking system, the blocking of assets and the taking of possessions from the Russian elite outside Russia. Of course, there is always an effect of prices. There will be. You can never completely rule out the fact that the increased prices at lower deliveries still lead to decent energy revenues. Honestly, that's pretty much the only source of income they have left. But we also know that the Russian elite is severely affected by the sanctions against the currency, the central bank, the banks and themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u82	Then my next question is: how long can you keep doing that? Our citizens are facing high bills. They can't pay their bills anymore. I think that support for this policy is beginning to melt away as it lasts longer and that we are actually sanctioning ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u83	Then I appeal to Mr Eppink to help, as a representative of a party responsible in my view. This is an appeal to me and anyone here who wants to explain to the Netherlands that we are dealing here with a battle, a war, of Russia against Ukraine, which is also our fight, our war. That is not in the sense that we are literally at war ourselves, but it is in the sense that if we do not stop this, we will not stop it and not make it clear to Russia and the world that this is so much at odds with everything we stand for... We are also prepared to pay the price. We are, of course, paying that price at the moment because of higher energy prices. This may also take a longer time. But it is necessary that we, as Western democracies, are prepared to do so. If we don't do this, we're gonna take huge risks. If Russia is successful in Ukraine because we refuse to rebel against it, then the question will be: who is next, and who is next, and who is next? Then we harm the stability of the whole world, but certainly of our part of the world. Then we're potentially putting ourselves at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u84	Then my final question is the following. We have supported many of these policies from the beginning, but it is more difficult if there is no perspective. People start to wonder, how much longer is it gonna take? If you say it's gonna take another three or five years, the courage of a lot of people will fall. So there's got to be perspective somewhere. I asked a question that wasn't answered. That was: does the Prime Minister see a diplomatic path, a negotiating route, towards an agreement, one way or another? I believe that the longer this takes, the greater the pain and the more difficult it becomes to support your policy with the support of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u85	I would have liked it if Mr Eppink had said 'our policy' and not 'your policy', because this is what we are doing together. This ultimately touches why we're here. The most important task of Mr Eppink and I is to ensure that this country runs economically well, of course, but is safe in the first place. Security has to do not only with your immediate security, but also with the question of how, in the longer term, that security can be affected if regimes or systems that are not democratic and are willing to invade other countries with brutal force can eventually become a threat to our part of the world. This is so fundamental. This also includes the fact that we must do everything together to get our people here, our people, the Dutch, into it. I can't do that on my own. I also need Mr Eppink to do that. If he pulls his hands off that now and says: that's your policy and it gets complicated... This is also called a test case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u86	We're gonna listen to Mr. Eppink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u87	I'm not a prime minister, so I can't conduct a policy. I'm a public representative, so I'm asking critical questions. And we have also supported this policy from the outset, especially after 24 February, when it all began. My question is: how do you manage to convince a population that is in recession and then say that it is because of that war, which then reduces support for it? That is a big problem, for you, but also for us, of course. I asked you if you saw a diplomatic way out. If you answer that, I'll stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u88	However, on that first point. Just because I know that Mr Eppink's party and Mr Eppink have always supported themselves, I call on him and all of us to continue to talk to everyone in the Netherlands and to continue to explain why this is so crucial. I know, because I have unlimited confidence in the Netherlands, that by far most people feel that way. They may know, intellectually as well as emotionally as in their hearts, that this is a fundamental issue, which ultimately affects our security and that we, as a rich country, fortunately for a long time no longer have war and still not, fortunately, even though one is now close to us and we perceive a terrible aggression, which we are trying to combat, must be prepared to pay the price for it. That is what is currently happening, and this requires our joint commitment. The risk is of course... It's never like everyone supports that, but it's kind of like a rowboat: if there's a few small holes in it, that's okay at all. As long as you continue to row fast, that rowboat will continue. But it goes wrong when the rowers say: there's a hole there and there's another hole there, so stop rowing, because there's holes there. 'Cause then you're gonna sink together. In that sense, it is indeed a joint task. Now to the other question about Putin. I am not going to present myself as Putinuitlegger. I've talked to the man a lot. And I've seen a change over the years. The relationship has, of course, changed a lot after 17 July 2014, after taking down that plane and by not being prepared by Russia to cooperate in a UN tribunal, blocking it in the Security Council and all kinds of other things that happened then and which eventually led to the state complaint in 2018. Apart from what I think of Putin, I would like to leave that to other Putin experts, who may know a lot more about it, I think it is not so much up to us to decide how to proceed with these treaties, but that it is up to Ukraine. We must ensure that Ukraine has as strong a starting point as possible if they choose to actually start peace negotiations. Then the final outcome is up to them to determine. I am always saying one thing: we must then look at whether such a peace agreement at gunpoint has been concluded or whether it could really be concluded sovereignly by Ukraine. If it's the second, of course it's important. If it is the first, then we still have to consider what that means for our relationship with Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u89	You both arrived at the same time, but Mr Van der Lee has to leave a little earlier, so I will give him the floor first, thanks to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you could give me that. Let's talk about the seventh sanction package. It is clear that this is not just happening. Now that doesn't have to have a name at all, but I have a specific question. We are still importing oil, because the boycott agreed in the sixth sanction package still needs to be introduced. A boycott of gas is not yet at issue. There have been many calls for an import tax. It is said that it might be wise to switch to an import tax on oil and gas from Russia. That question is also important in another sense. The 2 billion is almost spent and additional money is needed again. And later on, we will need money for reconstruction. This import charge could also have a "own resource" character that could finance some of these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u91	An import charge the Russians are going to pay, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u92	That's right. Yes. I wonder if the Dutch government thinks that this route is sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u93	We have always said that we do not rule that out at all. But there are complex issues attached to that. 'Cause what if the gas costs 100 and you're only paying 80? Is the gas still coming? And if it doesn't come, what do you do? This is now quite easy for the Netherlands because we are now largely rid of this gas. Well, it causes all kinds of problems, but they seem to be manageable. But for countries such as Germany and Italy, this is of course quite different. And in the case of oil, the weather is different for countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. That is why these countries can go on with this oil a little longer. But, of course, by the end of this year, we are trying to get rid of most of it. So it's not like we're saying yes or no to that. The European Council has said a number of times: let it be looked at again. ACER's been investigating it. The large oil industry gives very different signals about how that would work. But so far this has not led to a common position in Europe. I saw yesterday the Americans pick up the file again. They said, couldn't you do something there? That's what I'm interested in. I am therefore not in a position to do so, and neither is the Minister for Climate and Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u94	War is about who has the initiative. That applies not only to the battlefield, but also to me outside. We have seen that we have constantly had to react to what Putin has done to terrible things. We have responded well, but we have always responded to the situation. I would actually like to tell the cabinet that Putin is going to make it much worse. The gas button half closed is step one, but the button goes towards September, October completely closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u95	At least that's your assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u96	There's a chance. I know that the Prime Minister can't say for sure, but it's not inappropriate; let me put it this way. Have we identified the consequences for the Netherlands and the European Union? And what measures should we take now if we assume that Putin is actually going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u97	That debate is now under way. A committee debate is now under way on the Energy Council, with the Minister for Climate and Energy. I think that question is on the table there, too. We ourselves, of course, have made a so-called plan of disposal, a Gas Protection and Recovery Plan. We also assume different sizes of severity of interventions from the security of supply. That is what this week's letter has been about, namely about actually putting into effect what is called 'the early warning'. That's step one of them, the first crisis step in that Gas Protection and Recovery Plan. So that's what we've got on the map. But, of course, it all has far-reaching consequences. It is not true that this is light, but neither does Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u98	You're saying we've got a map. I hope that's true. I wonder if we really have a map of what would happen if Russia really turned that gas button off. Why am I chasing this? It's 23 degrees now. I sometimes catch myself thinking: well, it's nice again and it's running loose. But in September, October, it doesn't go away. I would very much like us to prepare the Dutch people for this to be incredibly heavy and difficult. I understand that there is a parallel debate going on, but I see that the European Union is not sufficiently ready for this. And I would like to know from the Prime Minister what role he sees for himself. The Minister for Climate has now taken measures to deal with this danger. You're right. My group supports that. But what are we to accept in Europe if Putin decides to turn the button completely off?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u99	This is what we talk about every week in the ministerial committee. Well, we're not literally talking about that scenario where the crane is completely turned off, but we talk about that situation every week in the ministerial committee of Ukraine, including the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister for Climate and Energy, the Secretary of State for Mining. Of course, the discussion about Groningen also keeps coming back. Wouldn't you...? Then we say, "No, we don't." But you can't completely rule it out either if indeed the sky has come down. Anyway, those plans are there. I myself am convinced that we have a good map of that. But of course it does not make much sense if I now organise a major press conference and say to the Netherlands: this could happen. This is open to everyone. They're public documents. There's nothing secret in it. We will simply have to take the next steps if that happens. Mr Sjoerdsma is right about that. There's a reason we're filling up the gas deposits. We don't just do that for ourselves. There is also a European obligation to do so. We can't just keep that to ourselves. You must also show solidarity in Europe. That's how it's done. That's essential. We're working really hard on that. That's why it's Monday's plan. That is why the very difficult decision to make coal-fired power stations run more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u100	The Prime Minister says, "Maybe I should give a press conference." Yeah, maybe it should. It might be weird to say on behalf of my party, D66. I also remember people being a bit complaining about the amount of coronaper conferences at some point. Nevertheless: Dutch, it is war, and something is coming this winter. As far as my group is concerned, that message should be more effective in landing in the country. Not to frighten people, because we would not want that at all, but to prepare people for the fact that the measures that have now been taken are probably just the beginning of the acidic measures we have to take. I'd like to challenge the Prime Minister to that. I understand there's a parallel debate going on next door, but I'd like to add things like isolation: isolate your house, isolate Putin. I hope that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Housing are incredibly hard on it. For the next three months we will have time to run that campaign and then it will be winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u101	All these steps are of course in the plan, so it's not that it doesn't happen. The only question is: do you have to explicitly tell the whole of the Netherlands what the worst case scenario is? Then I have to do two press conferences quite quickly: one with the Minister for Climate and Energy on this and one day later with the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport on what could happen this autumn at the other crisis, namely corona. The question is whether that is useful. My feeling is that the average Dutchman really understands what is happening. In fact, I think it feels as firm as we all do, and it realizes intellectually and emotionally that there is a very fundamental conflict going on here that already has far-reaching consequences for us, and if the power tap is turned off further, it will be much bigger. The most important thing is that we have the plans ready for what needs to be done, but these are, of course, far-reaching interventions. That's inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yeah, inevitably. I am helping the Prime Minister hope that the average Dutchman shares what the Prime Minister has passionately shared here, namely that this war is our war and that there is a fight for concepts such as sovereignty. This means, however abstract, security and freedom for anyone who wants to live in their own country. I think it will also require something when such measures are in place. If energy prices and prices at the pump go up even further, that is less obvious. Others have pointed that out. Well, then it's gonna take us early to take people into it that this is coming. Maybe more about that later. I hope it doesn't have to come to that. Maybe one other case that's touching here, too. This is more in the area of this debate, namely the supply of arms. This Prime Minister says: the Sjoerdsma motion is a stand-alone policy. Well, the motion wasn't meant to be that way, in the sense that we were meant to increase our arms supplies tremendously. Not only us, but also other European Member States, because otherwise things will go wrong in the Donbas and Russia will run the risk of winning. That's what the motion was meant to do. If I understand the Prime Minister that he wants to carry it out like this, I think he's gonna be fine. If he means "we're going on the way we've done it," for which he's already received my compliments once, that's not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u103	No, the way he just said it. That does mean that at some point you will have to deal with it through the lower pockets of your own readiness. That is the result. Nothing's free. Anyway, Sjoerdsma, when he tabled the motion, of course, also realized that this naturally has consequences for the readiness of the Dutch armed forces. In part, you can also carry out the motion by rejecting weapons systems elsewhere and thus delivering them to Ukraine. There are, of course, different paths. I can't tell you everything about what we're doing now in public, but you can deliver some very heavy things for the Russians, which you do with other countries, where we do pieces and do pieces for other countries. That is what we do with the armored haters, for example, we have announced with the Germans: we five, they seven, they training, logistics together and they the ammunition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u104	I would like to go further on what Mr Eppink and Mr Sjoerdsma just suggested: taking people into account what is going to happen. The Prime Minister states that the goal is to ensure Ukraine wins. That could take a very long time. At the moment, the IEA has announced that there is a good chance that Russia will turn off the gas tap completely. The consequences would be immense, not just for the Netherlands, but for Europe. There are several countries in Europe that probably couldn't handle that at all. Look at Germany, which is still very dependent on Russian gas at the moment, and which is far from filling up well. But there are also other countries that suffer from this. This could mean that, as the Netherlands, we should make some of our gas available, for example, to provide households in other European countries. Here's what I'm wondering. The Prime Minister makes a bit of fun of it, of: yes, do I have to give a press conference? At the moment I do not have the idea that there is a great deal of urgency from the cabinet to the Dutch people that problems might arise in the winter that is coming. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister a little more concretely how he could improve that, to ensure that the support of the Dutch and European people remains for what we are doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u105	I do not entirely agree with Mr Dassen's analysis on this point. I do agree with him that you have to make sure that you are ready when things go wrong, that you have enough people in advance. But I think we do. I found the press conference of the Minister for Climate and Energy and the Secretary of State for Mining convincing. It was, as the English call it, a solen moment. They outlined that we now need to take step one of a possible larger plan. But to start spelling out the Netherlands completely what happens when the gas tap closes completely, what this means for Groningen, what this means for sister and for so etcetera... I think it is especially important that people know that we are trying to prepare ourselves for that as well and as angry as that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u106	On how to do that, then, I disagree with the Prime Minister. Once a press conference on this is far too little, in my view. We also have the campaign Turn the button. You can barely see them coming by. So I do not feel that people are well informed about what the consequences might be. I don't agree with the Prime Minister that you don't do that until the moment it goes wrong. You're doing it right in the run-up to that, to make sure people are well prepared for it. It's about taking others. The Prime Minister also said that if Ukraine is to win, then we must also ensure that the rest of the world remains behind us. In this respect, you can see that serious doubts are beginning to arise, especially from the African continent. Macky Sall, the president of Senegal, has already been to Russia. He's critical of the sanctions. I also asked the Prime Minister if we have a clear picture of the consequences of the sanctions on food security for African countries. More importantly, what is Europe going to do to ensure that food security for the African continent is also guaranteed, especially if we also get more difficult here in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u107	That is the next topic for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yes. Then I'll start with this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u109	That's a very nice little bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u110	Then Mr Dassen has not lost a question. I'll start with that. I even have that question right here in front of me. But can I just ask the last questions on this subject first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u111	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Brekelmans and then to Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u112	Then I'm gonna break off that bridge... We see now that the war is not a sprint, but a marathon. And, as the Prime Minister says, if we want Ukraine to prevail, we must be able to deliver weapons not only in a month, but also in three months and in six months or perhaps even in two years' time. You can see that the shelves are emptying and there is an increasingly creative need to look at what's left. In order to be able to do it structurally, I believe that we in Europe need to look at how we can jointly raise arms production. Each country is now supplementing its own armed forces, but how do we ensure that it doesn't all run through each other? I am still not getting very clear where the coordination lies and whether, for example, the European Defence Fund can be deployed if there are budgetary obstacles. Does the Prime Minister have any idea how we can strengthen that war machine, for Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u113	I almost hear the VVD argue for more coordination at EU level. No, I'm kidding. Oh, sorry, that's almost what my cappuccino's about!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u114	It can of course also be done by NATO!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u115	Exactly. I was just about to say! I would have recognized that more. Oh, no, that's silly. Let's get back to serious, because this is serious. To begin with, there is a difference between countries. Today Italy's Minister for Foreign Affairs left the Five Star Movement. In Italy, there has been a very fundamental debate on how far to go with the supply of arms to Ukraine. Italy is very reluctant to do so. I think that, despite the criticism, Germany is doing a lot from the start. To be honest, I find the criticism of Germany to be wrong. Anyway, that's a weighting. There are countries in Eastern Europe that do a lot of things. But that doesn't apply to all of them. There too there are countries that are more reluctant. The Netherlands is seen as one of the countries that is very much at the forefront and has helped other countries to get started. So there is a political difference in how countries deal with it. In Europe, it's coordinated through a club in that city... that's Ramstein. So that happens through the Ramstein meeting. This will examine who needs what, who has what to deliver and how to match supply and demand. But it is not entirely to be avoided that countries also make their own choices. Some countries are likely to produce to supplement their own stocks. Other countries will say: what can we buy together or put together with other countries in order to deliver as a system? We have done so recently. I cannot go into that now. But there are also examples of this. This question does encourage me to check whether there is sufficient coordination. I think that will happen, through the Ramstein meeting, but I'm going to see if we can do more in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u116	Also on this point. On 19 May, the Prime Minister said: I do not see it happening at the moment that we are going to deliver more; there are limits to what we can do now. Just now, the Prime Minister said to Mr Sjoerdsma: if we deliver any more now, it will be at the expense of the readiness of our armed forces. Is that the state of play now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u117	I just answered Van Dijk's question about May 19th. As I just said, that discussion was mainly about the armored haters. Of that, I say, these very heavy systems have a limit. However, it is not black and white. We have to look at that over and over again. It's a trade-off every time. This motion is important in this respect. We are incredibly aware of the urgency of providing that support. That's what I just said in the direction of Mr. Sjoerdsma. But, of course, it has consequences; that's what I said. It does mean that you have less of your own supplies. We must hope that if it goes wrong, those stocks can be replenished quickly. Mr. Chairman. I promised an answer to the question about Kosovo. That answer has been received by now. I have received official assistance for this. The non-recognitions of Kosovo are in favour of visa liberalisation. There is therefore no link between recognition or non-recognition and visa liberalisation. I have given that factual answer now. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to the next topic: food. As promised, I'll start with Africa. The situation in many African countries is precarious as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. It's about energy, but it's also about grain and fertilizer. The High Representative wrote a letter on this matter to the President of the African Union. This was also expressed during a visit by the European Union to Addis Ababa. We are now actively working on a plan to deal with the consequences for Africa, especially in the area of food security. Yesterday it was announced that another EUR 660 million will be made available for this purpose. It has also been announced that we are actively looking to ensure that Russian disinformation and other consequences of the Russian invasion are combated. However, we must ensure that it is a strategic and equal partnership. In this sense, the EU-African Union Summit in February was a good step towards future cooperation. I myself stress in my contact with African leaders that this is a war of colonisation, in which Russia is trying to colonize another country. I keep telling my colleagues every time that Africa never wants to go back there. I also notice that it resonates. Mr. Chairman. We need to avoid two things. One. We shouldn't call the rest of the world "the rest of the world." Because that doesn't work. So we have to delete that term. Two. We must not make this war a war between democracy and an authoritarian regime. We must set this war as a war between a world community based on human values and those who believe that aggression can conquer other countries. That is crucial, because you lose a lot of countries when it becomes a battle between democracy and autocracy. So it is very important how we formulate this. It is also important which words we choose. To your credit, I say to Parliament, because even what we are discussing here is translated and followed, despite the small language area. Words have their meaning there again. Then Mr Dassen asked: are we prepared to advocate an action plan for food security in third countries? There is now a debate on the concrete commitment on this issue. This is also reflected in the Council conclusions of the Foreign Affairs Council. This should lead to some sort of action plan. I am going to ask the Foreign Minister, Mr Hoekstra, in the report of the Foreign Affairs Council to consider exactly what has been written in the Council conclusions on the concrete commitment to food security. Then the question was asked: what does this mean for Dutch agriculture? The enlargement of the European Union will, of course, also affect Dutch agriculture and the internal market. That's obvious. At the moment, it is particularly important that we help, with our strong agricultural sector and with our state-of-the-art knowledge institutes, from Wageningen to the vmbo-green and the mbo-green, to use all our knowledge also in Africa. They're working on it. There is good cooperation between the Minister for Agriculture and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. Then the SWIFT sanctions. The problem is that Russia is blocking exports from Ukraine. So that's not the problem with SWIFT. Business can still be done with certain Russian banks if this is necessary for buying grain from Russia. So we really should not go along with the Russian narrative that SWIFT would be the problem here. To GroenLinks I can say that the Netherlands is a supporter, an advocate, of open trade. The food market is a global market. Mr Van der Lee asked a question about five traders who control 70% of the food market. However, I believe that it needs a separate debate, and perhaps it will be held at some point with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Then there was a question from Mr Kuzu. I agree with him that it is important to facilitate exports to the European Union. This is also happening with the EU solidarity lanes. Increasingly, barriers to imports at EU borders are being removed and European ports are also targeting grain from Ukraine. This concerns not only the direct region and the Baltic Sea ports, but also the Atlantic ports. The Commission has a facilitating role in this. The volumes are so huge that it will only really succeed if we do that from Odessa. The Netherlands is prepared to contribute to this. We know that Turkish President Erdogan and his government are active in this, as are others. It would, of course, be fantastic if some sort of UN initiative could eventually be put in place to re-launch grain exports from Odessa. Everything that the Netherlands can do to contribute to this, we do behind the scenes, but of course we can't do that until it's done. We therefore support the SGUN in this respect and we also support what Turkey is trying to achieve there. On Friday at the G7 Conference on Food Security in Berlin, the Netherlands will also argue for the option of a UN mission and resolution. This is also in response to Mr Sjoerdsma. Such a coalition calls for a broad group of countries, and we are committed to this. Unfortunately, Russia is already putting food security at risk as a result of its actions. Of course, the question of whether or not cereals come on the market from Ukraine depends on all kinds of factors, but that port blockade is a very large one. This underlines my previous comments on the solidarity lanes and an international solution for Odessa. Let me now turn to the questions about the Conference on the Future of Europe; they are a bit unequal in size today, but that is inevitable in a wide debate such as this at a time of international crisis. I can say to Mr Brekelmans that we are open to treaty changes following the conference, provided that this is also in the Dutch and European interest. That consideration really needs to be considered. The vast majority of the recommendations of that conference can be achieved in the short term within the Treaties. There is no treaty amendment now either, but we will of course come back to that if it were. We're not going to be responsible for that. Mr Amhaouch asked whether an appreciation could not be given per recommendation. On 10 May we made a first attempt with an analysis and appreciation of the proposals. The Legal Service of the Council and the Commission have also carried out analyses. They are, moreover, in line with each other, in the sense that the vast majority of them are enforceable within the Treaties. In my view, it is now important to look first at the follow-up to the concrete recommendations. In its communication on this subject, the Commission links the follow-up of the first series of proposals to the State of the Union speech to be presented by the President of the European Commission in September. These proposals will also be included in the Commission's work programme. The cabinet will send the Chamber an appreciation of this, which in turn leads to a more detailed analysis and appreciation, as requested. Mr Van Dijk had also asked whether or not to amend the Treaty. I think I just answered that question. He also asked quite specifically whether it could lead to a referendum. Well, we're not there yet. Period. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a few questions about the euro. A Eurozone summit is also foreseen in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u118	I am sorry, before you go any further, there is another question from Mr Amhaouch on the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u119	The Prime Minister states that they are two different quantities: the crisis and enlargement that we have had in the first block, and the Conference on the Future of Europe. But the two of them are connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u120	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u121	I have also made it clear in my speech that the enlargement of Europe must be accompanied by a deepening of Europe. Where are the priorities here, I ask, through the President, the Prime Minister. That is precisely what I am referring to when a number of countries join.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u122	Yeah, that's a real search. In 27 Member States, I have noticed that sometimes it can take quite a long time. I always try to get enough sleep for the first half of a week. Usually it is only a few hours from Thursday to Friday. After having mocked me at all the contributions of colleagues, and she to mine, it is, of course, enough. That's just the time spent. In addition, of course, you are dealing with the unanimity decision-making process. That is what the Dutch cabinet says: at least look at how to get rid of this unanimity decision on sanctions and a number of other questions about how to conduct our work internationally. It is just that unanimity must be achieved by unanimity. So that's not just settled. For example, you can also see it in the whole discussion about Fit for 55. A number of countries are trying to pump it all back into the European Council, because then it will be on the basis of unanimity. That happens while I think: keep that on the professional boards, because then maybe you can make a decision about a few things. But I agree with Mr Amhaouch. This has to be part of the discussion. And I also agree that this is, of course, in line with the somewhat larger geopolitical issues that were raised earlier. I agree with him. In addition to a Balkans Summit and the European Council, a Eurozone Summit is also foreseen. A few questions have been asked about this too. The Netherlands has made its own proposal on the SGP. That really resonates, I see. The proposal is: keep the 3% and 60% standards, but see if countries, if they implement sufficient reforms, will be given more room in the phasing-out path towards 60% debt. The attractive thing is that you actually learn from the approach at the Recovery Fund. Instead of money for reforms, this is a longer phasing-out path in exchange for reforms. This led to an article by the Spanish Finance Minister and the Dutch Finance Minister. Everyone was then completely panicked: how is that possible, that the Spaniards and the Dutch together write an article about the future of the euro? That is nice; that we can also agree together. By the way, we work very well with the Spaniards on a lot of points, and this is another example of this. Then on the ECB's interest spreads. Of course, we are also concerned about the high level of debt in some euro area countries. Because of rising inflation, it inflates a bit. That is a very small advantage of a very large disadvantage of high inflation. Moreover, an increase in interest rates on the spread is not directly a major problem. As a result, the financing of the budget deficit and part of the outstanding debt that is due to expire this year, there is, of course, some higher interest costs. But that is, of course, going to happen gradually. Most of the outstanding debt is still at low interest rates in recent years. However, if this remains too high over a long period of time, without increasing nominal economic growth, it will naturally lead to higher debts, at least in absolute terms. In this sense, this can also lead to additional pressure on reforms. This is, of course, the first step towards economic growth and a higher level of economic convergence. But we are following that very closely. We never comment on the ECB interest rate position, because the ECB is independent. But, of course, we are looking very closely at what they are doing. I believe that this is also an answer to Mr Stoffer, on the same point. I would like to add that Member States must, of course, abide by the rules. The same applies to the SGP. This also applies to the agricultural rules he mentioned. With regard to the escape clause, the cabinet can agree that we will not do that for another year in 2023. This really has to do with the direct consequences of high energy prices and the uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook. Just a few loose questions, Mr. Chairman. The first of these is also from Mr Stoffer, on the recommendation on equal matrimonial rights. He referred to a number of recommendations resulting from the conference's citizens' recommendations. There are also recommendations which lead to a transfer of powers. Of course, that can't just happen. That requires a treaty change. That is, of course, a careful and lengthy process. That is not the case at the moment. Mr Brekelmans asked about the UK and the legislation which could render the agreements under the Northern Ireland Protocol ineffective. We are, of course, concerned about this, but it is still the beginning of that treatment. We believe that what they are doing here is absolutely not going to contribute to the solution. We're really worried about this, too. It also seems to be in real conflict with many parts of the protocol, such as customs formalities and controls on goods flows from Great Britain to Northern Ireland. But it's a treatment that's gonna take months. It is not now clear what the final version will look like either. I would therefore like to say that we must strongly condemn this initiative, this legislation. That's what happened. The UK simply has to fulfil its international legal obligations. The EU position is unchanged. We believe that the problems that are currently arising can be solved within the framework of that protocol. There is no need for re-negotiation; far-reaching proposals have already been made for this. It is now important for the UK to come back to the table. The Commission has also announced that it will take the next step in the March 21 infringement procedure, which had been temporarily suspended and that it will also launch two new infringement procedures to address the seriousness of the situation. But the main issue is that this legislation is not yet complete. Strategic autonomy. Yes, indeed, Mr Brekelmans rightly said: open strategic autonomy. I think that the war between Russia and Ukraine has only increased this urgency at the moment. Major steps have been taken in this regard. They focus on the short-term effective deployment of economic sanctions, the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels and other raw materials from Russia and the strengthening of European defence capacity. Ultimately, of course, this attention must also go further towards strengthening resilience on other parts. Of course, there is also the mitigation of strategic dependencies, certainly from risky strategic dependencies. How can we narrow it down? In doing so, the EU is the primary framework for action for us, in which we are, of course, very actively involved in this discussion and are also pleased that, where it is initially strategic autonomy, everyone now agrees that this should be in an open relationship with the rest of the world. Then Poland and the RRF, there were several questions about that too. With all due respect, of course, for the views of the Chamber on this matter, I would just like to share that abstention as the only one and, of course, I fully agree with the substance of the matter that we did all this without a price. We were the only ones who remembered us. There were a number of countries, including the Netherlands, with a statement. I'm just gonna say that anyway. In the end, we come to that together and that is quite good, but let us always critically ask each other the question: this still goes on. Also with that abstinence and even if we had voted against, that RRF went on completely. So what we need to avoid is that the Netherlands is back in a corner that would be contrary to the spirit of this coalition agreement: always equal, but rarely relevant. That's really the risk. I'm just saying that. I simply note that this abstinence has fallen very wrong with a lot of allies, who have really seen it as a personal affront. Anyway, that's true. But let's put our principles and our views clearly together each time, but let's also see what the impact is if we do so in such a way that it doesn't have any consequences. From Turkey and Greece, I would like to say that de-escalation is really very important. This issue was also discussed earlier at the European Council. I have been in contact with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of Greece. I hope to have contact with the President of Turkey on a very wide range of issues as well soon as possible. This may also be discussed at this summit. Finally, I agree with Mr Dassen that we need to strengthen the eastern flank in response to the Russian threat. There is, of course, enhanced Forward Presence and the conversations are going on to make it more structural. That's in response to all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u123	I didn't quite understand why the Prime Minister wanted to sneer so hard at himself. I understand that this abstention of the Netherlands may have gone wrong in Europe, but that was the position of the cabinet and the Prime Minister, like the Minister of Finance, has defended it. If that reaction was difficult, then that is good, but then we should not blame the Chamber. That was the cabinet's point of view. It is true that part of the Chamber wanted to go a little further in that. This was also in line with the coalition agreement, which states that the democratic values and the values of the rule of law must be promoted in Europe. So also there I would if the Prime Minister was was not shielding with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u124	I really disagree with that. This is a really risky strategy. I'm telling you the truth. So at all; I am the first President and the whole cabinet and also a large part of the Chamber.... to fight for that rule of law. We are, of course, very concerned about the development in Poland and even more concerned about the development in Hungary. But even what threatened in the Chamber, a vote against or abstinence has, of course, everything to do with how one ultimately weighs up the political situation. I'm just saying it honestly. That is not without a political price. This simply means less influence for the Netherlands. Then we can be real in. We have to face that with each other. That does not change the ferocity in that struggle, but you can also do so with a joint declaration and so on. There were still a large number of parties who strongly insisted on this, including those who strongly advocated an open attitude towards Europe and accused previous Cabinets of doing too little about it. I'll just point it out and eventually we'll follow the majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u125	I had another question about SWIFT sanctions. The Prime Minister just said: that's Russian propaganda. But there are also signs from Scholz and from the European Commission that there are certainly side effects that make it more difficult for countries in Africa to buy fertilizers, for example. They need them for agriculture. They depend on it to eventually produce food again. Can the Prime Minister promise me that he'll look at that and take it with him? Can he see if there are any restrictions and if anything can be done about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u126	Let me promise you that we will discuss sanctions in a next update letter from the Foreign Affairs Department. And I would ask you to take note of this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u127	Fine, thank you. It is not at all a question of weakening these sanctions, but I would like to see how we can ensure that food can also be produced in Africa in the near future, so that further food security is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u128	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u129	This brings us to the end of the first term. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes. Then we start about 15.50 again with the second term from the side of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u130	The next item is the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr President, thank you to the Prime Minister for his clear answer, especially when it comes to the crucial issues facing the Netherlands, especially Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. I would almost like to apologize to some of our guests for what they have heard in this Chamber of rhetoric, but I believe that the vast majority of this Chamber has supported the Prime Minister's policy. I think that is right, because the cabinet is doing the right thing here: heavy on sanctions, heavy on weapons, heavy on the energy boycott and clear on candidate membership. At a crucial moment, we are giving the necessary support. Mr. Chairman. I do have very serious concerns about what Putin is capable of and about how prepared we are. I believe that we should prepare ourselves for the worst things Putin can do to us, whether it is about gas, other energy supplies, about pushing refugees across borders or about putting global food supplies at risk. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the war in Ukraine also has a huge impact on Dutch and European society;]] [[Considering that Putin continues to take action against the Netherlands and allies over and over again and that it is necessary to better anticipate these decisions, which can take place at any time and have major economic and social consequences;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to prepare proactively for various scenarios, including the worst possible, with which Putin can confront us;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with plans for urgent vulnerabilities, such as energy supply, food, refugee shelter and energy saving, and to communicate with the Dutch population at appropriate times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1808]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u132	Madam President, finally. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for what he said between his nose and his lips about combating a global famine and the Dutch willingness and the Dutch initiative not only to advocate a UN six-emission to collect the grain, but also to look at a UN resolution on this and the support that the Netherlands is giving to UN Secretary-General Guterres. I think it is incredibly important, even in the context of what the Prime Minister said about keeping 'the rest of the world', even if we cannot say so. It is, of course, about countries that are now seeing that their energy supply or their food supply is getting into trouble and that have to do with Russian propaganda. We must make it clear to them that we are side by side with them, that we are doing everything we can to get that grain out and if it does not succeed, that it is only up to one country. We all know which country that is; that is Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. There is another question from Mr Brekelmans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u134	The motion was read a little quickly. If I have understood Mr Sjoerdsma correctly, he says: we must increase the fear of Russia and the possible consequences and communicate frequently to the Dutch population. And that happens at a time when people are worried about a nitrogen crisis, about an energy crisis, about an asylum crisis. In fact, all the major problems we have are called crises. And then Mr Sjoerdsma adds a little bit more: we are going to increase all kinds of potential scenarios, increase the fear and communicate about it even further. I think that's a very strange approach. Nor do I think that it will have the effect that Mr Sjoerdsma wishes and that we both wish, namely that there is consistent support in Dutch society for firm sanctions against Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u135	If the motion were to aim at what Mr Brekelmans says it is intended to do, I would be very concerned. However, he gives a somewhat distorted representation of what is in the motion. There's two things in there. The first is that I ask the Cabinet to actively prepare for any scenario that Putin can confront us with, including the worst possible. I hope that Mr Brekelmans agrees with me that any prudent cabinet would do this, whether it concerns energy supply, energy saving, food security or other matters. I hope that Mr Brekelmans agrees with me. The second thing I ask the cabinet to do is to communicate about it at appropriate times. So I am not asking for frightening things, but I am asking for the Dutch people to get what might come to them and for the people to get what the cabinet is doing about it, but that it may still be that we are going to notice, even if we do everything in our power. I think that's the honest story. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mr Brekelmans, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u137	I have a second concern. Mr Sjoerdsma gives a few examples. There may also be one reception for Ukrainian refugees. At the moment, everyone working in municipalities or in the Ministry of Asylum is talking about the water. It's all hands on deck to manage the current crisis. I do not want to instruct that ministry to make all kinds of contingency plans, to further develop them and to communicate them to the Minister. An army of civil servants is already working on this, while there is now an acute crisis to manage and the water is already on their way. The same probably applies to energy supply, which I am less involved in myself. There is also a need to manage an acute crisis. This also applies to the other examples mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma. In view of the feasibility, please, let us not place even greater burdens on the ministries that are already under such pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u138	What I think is: we can put our heads in the sand and pretend that this is not a real option. But I think it's a real option. It's not just about the Netherlands either. Let me try to split my answer a little bit. If there were more refugees coming, for example from Ukraine, which is not unthinkable if, for example, Belarus is interfering in the fight or if Russia gets the upper hand in the first place. Then they will first arrive in the neighbouring countries. Let us, for God's sake, have a plan to ensure that those neighbouring countries do not fall over. You've been to Moldova, you've seen it. This is not just about the Ministry of Asylum. This is also about the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The second point I want to make is this. I can also see that asylum shelter beeps and cracks. But if there are new refugees coming, we can't pretend they're not here. So I would like a plan to be put in place, if that happens, so that we do not get the situations we saw with Syrians in 2015. People were then driven on buses from place a to place b, while there was no space at place b and they had to go to place c, where there was no space. We saw these degrading circumstances and these problems for the municipalities. I'd like to avoid that. I hope that the VVD always wants that with its realistic policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Piri of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. For weeks, we asked the cabinet: what is the Dutch position on the accession of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia? Each time the answer was: we are waiting for the Commission's opinion; that is for us to lead. We know that the Netherlands was working against it behind the scenes. Now the Cabinet for Candidate Membership of Ukraine and Moldova. The Commission's opinion is not necessarily a guiding principle for us. We always make our own decision. This time we happened to be in agreement with the Commission, while of course we disagreed with the Commission many times. My conclusion is that, unfortunately, there is no track record of the line we follow in EU enlargement. In any case, my group welcomes the decision taken by the cabinet. I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission has issued an opinion to welcome Georgia's EU perspective and that the government has endorsed this opinion;]] [[noting that the Commission has laid down detailed conditions for the granting of candidate membership;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to commit itself to the granting of candidate membership as soon as the criteria set are met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Dassen and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1809]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u141	Motion two. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the inhabitants of Kosovo alone in the Western Balkans are not yet able to travel visa-free to the EU;]] [[having noted that the European Commission has already established in 2018 that Kosovo meets all the technical criteria for visa liberalisation, but the Council has postponed this decision several times;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of a new Commission opinion, to consider visa liberalisation for Kosovo in the very short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Dassen and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1810]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u142	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that speculation on the prices of commodities such as cereals and maize is increasing at European exchanges;]] [[noting that the University of Bonn warns that speculation can contribute to rising food prices;]] [[Whereas food prices have risen to record levels;]] [[calls on the Government to address this problem to the European Commission, to identify the scale of this problem and then to act on this undesirable speculation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Dassen, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1811]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr. Chairman. Putin's attack on Ukraine is unacceptable and in no way justifiable, so Ukraine deserves support. The question is whether this can be achieved through accession to the European Union. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Believes that Ukraine deserves full support due to the unprecedented aggression from the Kremlin, but not necessarily through EU candidate membership;]] [[Whereas in March the government supported the development of variants to strengthen cooperation with Ukraine, for example by strengthening the Council of Europe or the Eastern Partnership;]] [[Considers that the granting of candidate membership to Ukraine has all kinds of disadvantages, as actual membership may last for decades, because other countries are being passed and the acceptance of enlargement is under pressure;]] [[calls on the Government to promote, at the European Summit, the development of variants to strengthen cooperation with Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1812]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u146	(NL) Mr President, all in all. It was also about NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u147	I think there is a question from Mr Amhaouch on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u148	I am trying to interpret what this motion by Mr Van Dijk is asking for. First of all, of course, this is another motion. I have more and more questions about the fact that we are giving a lot of motions for a resolution towards Brussels, and that is where we need to negotiate. How am I supposed to interpret this motion? Does Mr Van Dijk say: no candidate membership in the current context, wipe it off the table and do something else? Would you pass that on to the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u149	Yes, that is actually the position of Mr Wopke Hoekstra, member of the CDA, until a month ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u150	I know Mr Van Dijk as constructive. I just want an answer to my question. Is the interpretation of this motion: best cabinet, we do not want candidate membership for Ukraine and Moldova; wipe that off the table and move Mr Omtzigt's and Mr Van Dijk's motion to Brussels. Is that the interpretation of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u151	I think I just answered. I would like to work with Ukraine, but I wonder if EU membership is the best way forward. That may be clear after today. Look for other ways of working with the European Union, as the government has defended until recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you. You're finishing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u153	It was also about NATO. Now they're working on a strategic concept. I was told that the Chamber should not see this strategic concept when it is being discussed. I ask the Prime Minister: does he not find it difficult to debate a document that is not public?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to grant accession to Ukraine and Moldova,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to speak out against the imposition of a European superstate and not to accept proposals to transfer powers from the Netherlands to the European Union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to Croatia's accession to the euro area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1813]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1814]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1815]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I do have a look back at this fine debate. I actually think that we should have this kind of debate about Europe in the future and the perspectives of the various parties involved. Maybe we should be a little more restrained with motions. Of course, it is also an exercise, also for myself and for our party, to explicitly send along a number of motions with a very complex dossier where we have to try to get 27 out. That is why I recognize the Prime Minister's point of remembering. Robert Schumann said: one dissenting vote is as heavy as ten praiseworthy votes. We want to make a clear statement. That's how we're in this fight. We have also struggled with whether we should give that money to Poland or not. We want to make a clear statement, with clear guidelines, while maintaining but trying to exert influence. That is why I was a little disappointed in my colleague, Mr Van Dijk, that at the end of such a fine debate I would like to make another motion: wipe everything off the table, have heard everything today, and do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u157	This calls for a response from Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u158	That wasn't supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u159	Yeah, but that's how things go here. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u160	I'm filing one motion, not three, not five motions. I think it is the right of a representative of the people to ask for a ruling from the Chamber. I find it extremely disappointing that a colleague is trying to prevent me from doing so. I will look again at all the motions tabled by the CDA on European summits, because you can do some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you for Mr Van Dijk keeping me sharp. I have just said that we too must continue to do this exercise. It is important that today, in my view, at least, we are sharing this widely in the Chamber, given a clear perspective by many parties to Ukraine and Moldova, but also in the long term to Georgia, if they meet those requirements. I think that's an historic moment. Thanks also to the cabinet for active action on Bulgaria and Northern Macedonia. That's a problem we really need to get out of the table. That's just gonna stay there. If we want to be credible in the European Union, we must be able to solve these problems. Finally, I really hope that the United Nations will be able to free up that grain corridor either with Europe or with Turkey. Otherwise there will be a great disaster ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u162	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u163	Mr. Chairman. Since Mr Amhaouch has not tabled any motions, I am going to compensate, of course. It's good to keep the average high. But I'm not gonna do that until I thank the Prime Minister for the answers he gave in the first term. I was actually thinking of a few European summits ago. When Hungary had anti-lhbti legislative proposals, the Prime Minister stood here in the Chamber holding a firm story about European values. The Prime Minister stood in Brussels for his cause. I am not saying that the Prime Minister should always do that, but it would be nice if the Prime Minister, at such a historic moment, like tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, would show a little more courage and really show what he stands for. On two points in his reply, I found that he said: that does not do the job well. And I have motions on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Union has signed an agreement with Israel and Egypt in the search for alternatives to Russian natural gas;]] [[Considering that the war in Ukraine is the direct cause of the gas deal in which the EU wants to get rid of Russia's dependence;]] [[Whereas it appears that the government is not occupied by one person;]] [[believes that Israel should not be rewarded and should not benefit financially from a possible European energy crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to call at the European Summit for additional conditions requiring Israel to comply with international law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1816]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr. Chairman. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Western Balkan countries have been in the European waiting room for years;]] [[whereas Ukraine's speed and goodwill is in stark contrast to the long-term dawdling of the Western Balkan countries' attempts to become part of the European family;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at European level to strengthen the EU's direct involvement with the Western Balkan countries in constitutional reform and, in anticipation of possible membership, to allow for partial integration in certain cases, such as inclusion in parts of the EU's internal market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1817]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u166	Then I give the floor to Mr Eppink, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u167	I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands participates in the EU grant packages and in EU sanctions;]] [[Whereas its aim is to stop Russian action in Ukraine;]] [[noting that Russia is benefiting from higher energy prices due to the drop in supplies and the huge increase in energy exports to China and India;]] [[noting that this is a major disadvantage for Dutch citizens as a result of inflation and loss of purchasing power;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a numerical analysis of money flows to Russia through higher energy prices in order to assess the effectiveness of sanctions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eppink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1818]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the wide range of questions we have asked him again. I don't have any motions. I welcome the commitments made to ensure that the additional requirements are actually part of the commitments made at the Council. I am also pleased that we will then be critical of the European Commission's assessment of compliance with these additional requirements in an objective way and if not, that we, the Netherlands, will pay close attention to this and, where necessary, will be critical of us. I was also pleased with the Prime Minister's undertaking that he would like to take a closer look at whether the supply of weapons is being sufficiently coordinated. I am also concerned about the production of weapons and ammunition and whether the defence industry is involved. I believe that we should not only see what we can deliver within a month or within three months, but also more structuralally. I would also like to see this coordinated at NATO level. It is also good that the Netherlands remains committed to a resolution in the UN and to a role in the UN when it comes to a mission to obtain grain from Ukraine. We have called for this together with D66 before. It is good that the Netherlands remains committed to this. Finally, I have one more thing to say about the motion just tabled by D66. We have just had a brief debate on this. Of course, it sounds very sympathetic that we should "prepare for the worst scenario," and I agree with that in principle. But we have also had long debates here as a Chamber about what we are asking and whether this is feasible. I know that everything is going on on all these routes, whether it be energy, the housing market, but certainly also the reception of refugees, and that plans are also being made for the short term and for the medium term. If we are going to ask here again in a debate on the European summit to make all kinds of crisis plans across the board, this will lead to a great deal of work for all implementation organisations and will require coordination. I'm afraid that's distracting from what all these different ministries are doing and that might be counterproductive. I believe that we in the Chamber should also be critical of ourselves and of what we are asking and whether this is feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u169	How executable does Mr Brekelmans think it would be if Putin made the worst possible scenarios real and there was no plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u170	That's not the point. There are a hundred possible scenarios I can think of for what Mr Putin might do. This has another hundred possible consequences for energy prices, for the number of places needed for the reception of refugees. Take the number of Ukrainians coming to the Netherlands. It's about 60,000 now. We've got places for 70,000. The moment it becomes more, it can be scaled up further. That number may decrease, but it could also be 100,000, 200,000, 300,000 or 500,000. I do not want to ask the Ministry of Justice and Security to make a plan on all these scenarios, while they are waiting for the water and they are trying to manage the crisis in Ter Apel every day with man and power. I think that's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u171	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u172	I think this is a rather dangerous attitude myself, if I have to be honest. Nor is it the case that we want thousands of scenarios. Just clear: if the gas goes out, then what? If there are tens of thousands more refugees, then what? If we don't have any food in the world because of the fact that Russia is stopping or destroying the grain, then what? That's three. I think a fourth category has been mentioned. If the VVD is opposed to us carefully preparing for this: that is good. I also understand that we do not want to put too much pressure on implementing organisations, but I am concerned about the opposite, namely what implementing organisations will have to do when we are not prepared, if we have not thought about these worst possible scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr Brekelmans, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u174	I began by saying that, of course, I understand Mr Sjoerdsma's idea. I have often encouraged the cabinet, very focused, by asking: prepare yourself for this or prepare yourself for it or take it into account now. But if you now ask a very broad question as to what all these possible consequences would mean, then the cabinet can deal with them in two ways. One way is: we're sweeping everything we've already mapped together, and we're doing that motion in a simple way. I think the added value will be zero. If the cabinet is really serious about this, then it also means a huge amount of work, and I think that is simply not feasible at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u175	Thank you, Mr. Brekelmans. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u176	Thank you. It's a miraculous separation of spirits here. I am glad that we are doing much more on this subject. We're organizing a big symposium. I invite you all to be there, on July 10th, to hear the other side and to broaden your ideas about this situation, I also say to the Prime Minister. I really think the one-sided coverage, the American war propaganda has narrowed your eyes deeply and poisoned your minds with war propaganda. I have three motions. They're based on my speech this afternoon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Emmanuel Macron's "Wider Europe" plan outlines an opposition between "European countries" and "Russia" on the one hand;]] [[whereas this alleged contradiction is much wider around us, whereas Russia is an integral part of the European family;]] [[expresses the view that Russia is a European country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the rules on maximum nitrogen deposition bind our society in an unacceptable way and that these rules ultimately result from Natura 2000 Directives adopted by the EU Commission;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the European Union that the Netherlands no longer respects these Natura 2000 directives, and that as long as the Commission does not delete them, the Netherlands will no longer make any payments to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1819]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u177	Yes, I do. I mentioned that in my speech. And the government travels to a European summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. I did mention this in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u178	Thursday we have a big nitrogen debate. Anyway, you're talking about your own contributions. So if there's a link...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u179	Thank you. There's definitely a link. And I also expect that if this motion is adopted, the government will go to that European Council on high terms, and it will be able to say a few things about it. So this is just on topic. This is the essence of what we are trying to say. This whole EU is a kind of regulatory pasta that affects our society across the board. Finally, the next motion for a resolution [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Recalls that the Prime Minister stated on Friday 17 June that the war in Ukraine was "our war";]] [[declares that this war is not our war,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1821]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u181	I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP. Mr Omtzigt then followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u182	Mr. Chairman. We have done two debates in parallel from the SGP today. Or at least I did. That is why I have not been able to attend the whole debate. But my associate heard all the answers and we weighed them. In fact, we would have liked a somewhat more robust response from the Prime Minister, and we would have liked a number of answers. But it's the way it is. In any case, we would like to conclude this debate with one motion. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the granting of candidate status to Ukraine and Moldova will be discussed at the European Council on 23 and 24 June, and that the Cabinet will assess this positively following the opinion of the European Commission;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[provide further insight into the security implications of granting candidate status for the EU, in the light of the security clauses in Article 42 of the Treaty on European Union;]] [[fully maintain the existing accession criteria and procedures towards any (potential) candidate country;]] [[develop a vision of the implications of possible EU enlargement for the nature and extent of EU cooperation and integration;]] [[and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Stoffer and Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1822]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apologies. Like Mr Stoffer, I had something about the surcharges. That debate was also planned for a long time. At last we were talking about the solutions. That's a technical, tough debate. But that's what you've become a little MP for, I guess. I thank the government for the answers in the first term. I understand there are challenges. I also understand that you can change your mind in this file. However, I find it unwise to go hink-step-jumping now and then to kick the brakes again. That is why I have co-signed both Mr Stoffer's motion and Mr Van Dijk's motion. Let there be no doubt about our support for Ukraine. There's even something to that. But we doubt that this is a sensible way. That answer to Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan already indicated the problem. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, which deals with energy security. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are significant energy supply challenges with potentially significant implications for the survival of large groups of people;]] [[calls on the government to inform the public openly and clearly about the state of play in the second half of the summer;]] [[calls on the Government to update the roadmaps, including the most black ones, and to share them with the Chamber in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1823]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u184	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr Van Dijk asked a question about NATO's strategic concept. The cabinet shared the text with the Chamber twice in confidence during the negotiation process. The engagement of the cabinet was also shared through an appreciation and the annotated agenda of the summit. The debate will take place tomorrow. Then there's the motions. The Sjoerdsma motion in part No. 1808 I'm going to dissuade. We're already getting ready. This motion is really too far-reaching. There's a lot going on already, so I'm gonna dissuade the motion. The Piri c.s. motion. in piece No. 1809 gets judgment Chamber. That's state-of-the-art policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u186	Before you proceed: Mr Sjoerdsma on the motion on item No. 1808.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u187	In what sense is the motion too far-reaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u188	We are all slowly overwhelmed by the many crises and problems that we have to solve. Making the plans this way... To be honest, I don't think that's a reasonable request. I'm just against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u189	Does the Prime Minister guarantee that these plans are there, that we are prepared for the worst things Putin can send to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u190	I can't answer a question like that. You can't guarantee that, but of course that's under consideration. This is largely work done in the cabinet, by the Minister for Climate and Energy, by the Minister of Agriculture and by the Secretary of State for Migration. We are trying to deal with the issue from all sides, but it calls for all kinds of new plans. That's a huge workload. I get it, but I just can't. That's too much work. I'm really afraid I'll be hunting colleagues over the blade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u191	The motion in part No. 1809 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u192	Yeah, the motion to part No. 1809 gets judgment Chamber. The Piri c.s. motion. in piece No. 1810 also gets judgment Chamber. We'll do that as soon as we get the advice. The Piri c.s. motion. in piece No. 1811 I advise against. We can raise the issue, but there is no scope for action. It is a global market and you cannot intervene unilaterally in it. The Jasper van Dijk/Omtzigt motion in part No. 1812 I advise against. There is a clear opinion from the Commission. The Maeijer motion in part No. 1813 I advise against. You know the position of the cabinet. The same applies to the Maeijer motion on item No. 1814. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. The Maeijer/Van Dijck motion in part No. 1815 I advise against. Croatia fulfils the criteria. The decision is now up to the Ecofin Council in July. The Kuzu motion in part No. 1816 I advise against. We are of course against all violations of international law. These agreements do not stand in the way of this. The Kuzu motion in part No. I would also advise against 1817. Moreover, I agree on greater involvement in constitutional reform, but we cannot just accept parts of the acquis; we really must do so in full. The Eppink motion in part No. 1818 I must be discouraged because of the practical impossibility. The Baudet motion in part No. 1819 is a speech-exmotion, but I hope it is not accepted, because there are all kinds of assumptions about Macron's plan that I think are really wrong. The Baudet motion in part No. 1820, I'm not sure. The Directive is legally binding. The Baudet motion in part No. I also advise against 1821, referring to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u193	The motion in part No. 1821 is a speech-exmotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u194	Yes, that is true, but I hope it will not be accepted; let me put it this way. The motion-Stoffer/Omvertigt in part No. 1822 gets judgment Chamber. We can do points one and two in the short term. I am also willing to do point three, but we need a little longer for that. I cannot now give an opinion on the Omtzigt motion in part No. 1823. If that is requested, I have to discourage the motion, because I just don't know. I could not reach the Minister concerned, the Minister for Climate and Energy. There's a debate tonight on the Energy Council. I can pass the motion on to the officials so that the Minister for Climate and Energy can comment on it this evening. I just can't see over...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u195	I see Mr Omtzig nodding yes. He thinks that's a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u196	Yeah, but it shouldn't be in the mood right now. There are moods now, aren't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u197	Yeah, we're gonna vote today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u198	This motion is not about tomorrow's European Council, so perhaps it could be on Tuesday's voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u199	Mr President, I shall hold the motion until Tuesday. I suppose I'll get an appreciation from the cabinet before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u200	Yes, but that appreciation comes orally, because there is no energy left to write letters either. That is what we are doing tonight in the debate on the Energy Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u201	I'm gonna read that back, because I'm not gonna be there. I don't have the energy for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u202	I'm gonna make sure you get a call about what was said there. Then you don't have to read it back. Then we avoid a letter and everyone is served.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u204	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u205	This brings us to the end of this debate on the European Summit on 23 and 24 June. I thank the Prime Minister for his reply, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-22-tweedekamer-7.u206	We are going to vote on the motions before us at the end of the afternoon. I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. and then we shall begin the two-minute Energy Council debate.
