ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the debate on the Continuing Act Articles 2c and 4 Wvb. I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, including my fellow Members. It's a legal procedure. There are indications of speaking time. You will, I think, expect me to try to keep you in there a little bit. If we can agree to that and you also handle the interruptions a little quietly, we can get started quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u2	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We have reached a new low today as the House of Representatives. For who could ever have thought that an old emergency law, intended to protect Dutch people in case of disaster, might think of Germans coming to occupy our country again, would be dusted and used against Dutch people? A law to protect Dutch people is now being used to catch Dutch people. Today we deal with the Continuing Act Articles 2c and 4 of the Relocation Population Act. Article 2 states that this law applies to large-scale movements of people. Article 4 instructs the mayor with the execution and the minister may give compelling instructions. By activating this emergency law, the cabinet is showing its most ugly, dictatorial, scary face. Activating this law in this situation is a declaration of war from this cabinet to our democracy. It opens Pandora's box and gives the most far-reaching powers to the most unreliable drivers the Netherlands has ever known.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u4	Mr President, on a point of order. We're dealing with a law here. You can find all kinds of things, but that already shows that there is no dictatorial regime here or whatever, as Mr Markuszower says, but that we are dealing with a law in our parliament. I would like to distance myself, but also to make this point of order. We don't talk like this about legal treatment here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u5	Yeah, we're gonna be half a minute. I understand your objection. I am not going to deprive Mr Markuszower of the floor. You may respond to this, but I do want you to continue with your story. Do you want to respond to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u6	I didn't hear a point of order. I have only heard criticism, and I regard that as an interruption. I would like to say to Mrs Bikker that democracies, including parliaments, can also adopt dictatorial laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u7	All right, continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u8	The members of the House of Representatives who, as perhaps Mrs Bikker, but still have to be said, today say that it is not all that bad because not all the articles of this emergency law have been activated, can better become representatives of the people in North Korea. Because activating such laws and powers in peacetime is dictatorship, it is abuse of power, it is trampled on our fundamental rights and it has nothing to do with democracy and civil rights anymore. If Articles 2c and 4 can be activated unnecessarily and without real cause, this scary ministerial team can also easily activate the other articles of this emergency law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u9	No, Mr. Markuszower, that's not how we're gonna do it. We're not gonna offend. You really need to take back "Scarey Minister's Team." Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, you can leave immediately. So you take that back. We don't have a creepy ministerial team here. What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u10	I'm not taking it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u11	Okay, then I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u12	On a point of order, Mr President. Then you must stop the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u13	No point of order. I'm the chairman. I told you what the penalty is. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Bikker. We are not stopping the debate at all. I've clearly given you a choice, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u14	That's up to the Chamber. I didn't say anything that couldn't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u15	No, you can say anything, but I'm in charge here. I do not think that we should call our cabinet in favour of a narrow ministerial team here. I think that's an insult. On the basis of what I have to say, Article 8.17, I can take the floor because you are insulting me. If you do, I can take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u16	I want to hear the rest of the room first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u17	You may want anything, but I'm in charge here. I don't know what you're getting into, Mr. Van Haga. I'm dealing with the order here. You're welcome to join us, but first, I'd like a moment. I'd like to make it clear to Mr Markuszower that I'm taking the floor, unless he takes those words back. This just can't be. We shouldn't do this. We're here in front of a public gallery. People are watching and expect us to have a decent relationship with each other. As your colleague, I have been appointed here to pay attention to that, and I do. I hope you don't blame me. Now I'm gonna go see Mr. Markuszower, and then maybe I'll come to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u18	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u19	You can make anything a point of order. This is not a point of order, this is maintaining order. That's what I do. Yes, it certainly goes far as Mr. Markuszower says. I agree. I'll be right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u20	Mr. Chairman, if you could just give me a moment to respond a little longer? We have had debates before and it is clear that you, as a person, are not very pleased with the way in which I engage in debates and the language I use. To be honest, I did not expect that, under such a far-reaching law, if I were to say'scared ministerial team', you would hammer me off on that. That wasn't my intention. I think the subject is too important and, frankly, I am also the first speaker and I can bring in a number of points that are important, that I would find it a shame to be deprived of the floor because I have said 'weepy ministerial team'. Taking it all back goes a long way, but can I say that I find a ministerial team that wants to activate these kinds of emergency laws creepy? If you don't want me to say that, we have a problem together. Well, then, you're really narrowing my space. It's not... can you motivate why it's offensive when a minister is scary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u21	Yeah, let's talk about that. Let's have a little debate about what's offensive. Dear people, listen to me. I'm the chairman here. I'm just your colleague. I'm doing this all day for you guys. Maintaining order, that's what I do, nothing more and nothing less. It has nothing to do with you, Mr. Markuszower. Only one uses firmer words than the other. There's a line on it, and that line's on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u22	Perhaps you should ask the Minister if...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u23	No, I'm not gonna ask the Minister anything. I don't need any of you to maintain order. I can do that myself on the basis of Article 8.17. Why don't you go check it all out at point b? If there is any insult, I can take the floor. I want to do that now, unless you take it back. You can come up with all kinds of sentence constructions, but as long as the word "scare" is in there, these are your last words behind the seat. I am still speaking; you will be allowed to speak later. You'd better think of something else, but we're not gonna move on with "scary." This is a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u24	You know, Mr. President, what you're doing actually scares me even more. So maybe you should ask the lawkeepers to take me off the chair. I don't accept this at all. You can take me off. I'm not leaving, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u25	Should we have you removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u26	Yeah, you can take me away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u27	Okay, then I'll ask the messengers to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u28	You're gonna have to get me out of here for this. It's insane what you're doing!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u29	Whatever. Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u30	I think it's going very far anyway. I think it is also very unfortunate that this debate should be derailed in this way, because there seems to be a difference of opinion on what is subjectively appropriate. That border is clearly different from that of me or Mr Markuszower. If you are talking about decency: the way in which you speak to me, the way in which you say, 'do you want to get involved and perhaps I will give you the floor later', I do not like it either. But within this Chamber we must all be able to say what we want. I hope you respect that. I also think that Mr Markuszower should simply go ahead. I hope he stands and doesn't take his words back, because it's his right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u31	Well, that's fine, then, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u32	I would also like to make a point of order. I would ask you to suspend this debate for a moment and to look in the Rules of Procedure at what is permissible in this Chamber. That seems to me to be the best thing for now, because the emotions are getting very high at the moment. There are things being said that would not be my choice of words, certainly not, but I think it would be better to suspend for a moment and discuss how we proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u33	I appreciate your efforts, but I'm not gonna discuss with the Chamber every order of business that I do, whether it's all right. Then you'll just have to find another chairman. One who's fine with everything. That's fine, but then you really hit the wrong guy with me. That has nothing to do with Mr Markuszower, because I will do it to all of you. I'm not going into it for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u34	Mr. Markuszower has spoken for a minute. In it, he accused the cabinet of starting a war, or a civil war...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u35	No, that's not true! Don't lie to me!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u36	At least he explicitly compared it to North Korea and he called the cabinet scary. That's what the chairman talked to him about. He warned him. We have appointed the President to maintain order. He's making an assessment on our behalf. One time a party will be happy with that and another time it won't. But I believe that if we respect the authority of the President, we will maintain our political debate and our democracy. I would like to express my support for this, especially as the President has warned on several occasions and is in line with the assessment made by the President at such a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u37	Thank you. Mr. Stoffer. No, Mr Van Dijk was first. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u38	The moods are getting worse. It's time for recess. One more day, I think, so everyone can rest. I totally agree with what was just said. The chairman has been appointed by himself, so he leads the meeting and he can take decisions of this kind. In fact, he has read the article he refers to. Then we have to support that in principle. Then, of course, we can all discuss "on what basis then?'. I also note that Mr Markuszower tried to get closer, because he changed his liking to: I find a cabinet that does something like this creepy. Well, I think that's a lot less intense than what he said before. So I think that's worth considering. And then I'd like to suspend for a while to look at this, because I think we're gonna get out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u39	I agree with what the SP says. Let's do that. Let's take a breather and get together. Otherwise, I think it's gonna be even more embarrassing than it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u40	The role of the chairman is that he or she or she is the chairman. We have just heard what is in the Rules of Procedure. But I think you can find something scary and you can find things scary, if there are people who are scared, I don't think you should do that. I understand that Mr. Markuszower also changed his tone in that regard. But I think it is the wisest thing to do what Mr Van Dijk said and for him Mrs Van der Plas: perhaps we should look at how to deal with this for a little more than fifteen minutes. I think that's the smartest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u41	All right, if there's any other sounds than that... And apparently there are. Is there anything else you'd like to say, Mr. Van Meijeren? Is there anything else you'd like to say, Mrs Bikker, or add? Then we'll go to Mrs. Bikker first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u42	Support, including for the chairman, who is here on behalf of all of us. I agree with what the SP said and I would ask Mr Markuszower to go to colleagues and also to me... We have had a workout many times, and I don't mind it at all when it comes to content. Even in the First Chamber, Mr. Markuszower, we could do that perfectly. We appreciate each other for that, but let us not call each other "dictorial" or "North Korean." You do the same in my direction, and I really don't think that makes any sense. We know better, and you know better. Mr Markuszower is actually quite a clever Member of Parliament, and he can do that better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u43	In my view, it goes far too far to deprive a Member of the floor when he argues why he finds a development that is being imposed scary. We are discussing very far-reaching emergency legislation today, which he finds scary, and that is why he also calls the government scary. I would just like to remind you that in the year 1933, when he called Adolf Hitler a crook, a representative of the people was taken away. We have all seen that this was thought very differently later. I think we should be able to discuss all the ideas here in Parliament and certainly the very worrying tyrannical developments that we are seeing today. So I advocate that Mr Markuszower be given room to finish his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u44	I understand that, but I'm not gonna do that. I am going to respond to the sound of several Members of Parliament, and that is that I shall suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u45	I'll resume the meeting. Mr Markuszower, I think we should have this debate on the substance. This point arose when you found the ministerial team creepy. I have also listened to some sensible people. They have led me to believe that your amendment may fall within the rules of the Rules of Procedure. So I accept it and it becomes part of the debate. I would ask you to continue your contribution. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u46	Whole areas, cities, municipalities or, perhaps more relevant in 2022, farms can be evacuated if this law is activated or further activated by the government. Populations can be moved. The government can then impose a code of conduct on the population. You have to think of bans on territory, curfews, bans on cooperation, quarantine, bans on work. The government can then evict people from their homes, take their property. The list is endless and terrifying. The Dutch may be obliged to give their attic or guest room to Mohammed or Ahmed. That's a good idea. Then you have two young children living at home and the Minister or Secretary of State Van der Burg tells you, the man whose motto is: the more Muslim asylum seekers in the Netherlands the better "take these two combat-ready young men from Africa into your home." If this law were to be activated as a whole, the Netherlands would be nothing more than a police state where the government determines everything and the citizen has 0.0 rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u47	It could be. It could be. It could be. There can be a lot of things in life. But we have already talked a great deal about this and the Minister and the Secretary of State have repeatedly stated that there is no question that one of the scenarios outlined here by Mr Markuszower is going to happen. I like to say that, so that people who are watching now don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u48	Well, we could ask the Minister whether she could rule out, or whether the Cabinet could rule out further recourse to the narrow provisions of the law, or whether these powers would later be included in the generic law. Because I myself once before "can you rule it out?" ......................................................................................................... There was no positive response at the time. It is therefore not excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u49	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u50	All what Hugo de Jonge has done to us during Corona and then worse. Because based on this law...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u51	Just a minute. One moment, Mr. Markuszower. We are not talking about "Hugo de Jonge"; we are talking about "the minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u52	All what Minister Hugo de Jonge has done to us during Corona, but even worse. Because on the basis of this law, people like that have a lot more powers. In fact, unlimited powers. Mr. Chairman. Why is this happening? Why did this emergency law have to be activated? Again, this emergency law has been hidden somewhere in a drawer since 1952, to be used only in the event of an extreme emergency. You must really think of a gigantic natural disaster or a third world war-like situation, in which the Netherlands is simultaneously attacked by Belgium, France and, of course, Germany and citizens are moved, evacuated, because otherwise they will be crushed by German tanks and bombarded with tactical nuclear weapons. The people, the Dutch, who would be in acute danger, could then be saved on the basis of this law. This law is of course not designed to scare the Dutch out of their homes for the Ukrainians. Or let's be honest: actually for the Africans and the Arabs. Because that's what's going on: this country is crammed with the wrong people. And every week 1,000 new asylum seekers come from Africa and the Middle East. Since January of this year, almost 170,000 people have entered our country. 50,000 of them are non-Western immigrants. Every year a city like Venlo, Deventer, Emmen or Delft joins non-Western immigrants. They do not work, they draw a lot of benefits, they live practically free of charge and they get everything from the State. Instead of being grateful, they commit a lot of crimes in great over-representation. The Dutchman sees his city or neighborhood go under Islamization and crime and insecurity; the logical consequence of decades of open border policy. Now that's a crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u53	We know this story of Mr Markuszower by now. But does he at least agree with me that this law has nothing to do with regular asylum seekers, and that the cabinet has repeatedly indicated that this law is only about Ukrainians, because it is outside the asylum system and can therefore be activated for them? Mr Markuszower may, of course, say what he wants about the asylum influx and the asylum crisis, but in fact that is totally irrelevant in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u54	We disagree on that. First of all. This cabinet has a taste for it, because emergency legislation is now also in place to accommodate asylum seekers. So one thing leads to another. But the second point is, of course, if you give 50,000 beds to Africans and Arabs, you'll have few beds left, won't you? So because we allow everyone inside the asylum shelter, we don't have any more beds left for those few Ukrainian women and children that we could temporarily receive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u55	If you look at how much space there is to accommodate people and how many Ukrainians are coming here, I agree with Mr Markuszower that there is, of course, less room for regular asylum seekers, and vice versa. But it's about this law. Mr Markuszower gives a certain impression of the provisions contained in this law. The cabinet has made it very clear that it does not intend to activate it at all. We've seen that in the past few months. This law has been in force for four months and the cabinet has not given any indication of, or taken any steps towards, further activation of other articles. So for the big doom scenario that Mr Markuszower is describing, at least in the last four months there is no indication whatsoever. But even so, the extreme measures he mentions will never apply to regular asylum seekers or their reception, because that is not what this law is about. Can he at least confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u56	This law is indeed not for asylum seekers. I just said there'd be a new emergency bill for that. This cabinet therefore has the taste to create emergency legislation to solve problems they themselves have created. But I keep saying, and on that, Mr. Brekelmans agreed with me that if our beds weren't occupied by Africans and Arabs, of course the cabinet wouldn't have needed this law right now to take care of those Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u57	Please continue with your speech. Well, one more time, Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u58	Mr Markuszower knows the numbers as well as I do. He knows we had 30,000 places for asylum seekers. That's up to 50,000 now. I think that's too much. That is why I have argued earlier to do something about the influx. But when it comes to Ukrainians, we are already going over 60,000, even towards 70,000. So the idea that if there were fewer people in the azc's, it would have been enough to catch Ukrainians, just doesn't add up in numbers and numbers. I see Mr Markuszower nodding. Can he confirm that Ukrainians are talking about numbers that would exceed the capacity of the asylum system, even if it was completely empty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u59	That's partly true. That is why the PVV has said that the Secretary of State and the Cabinet should make room by sending back all those Syrians who are staying here, by closing the borders for all new asylum seekers, by expelling misbehaving asylum equipment and their families, by banning all illegal immigrants from our country, by locking up and deporting their families who commit crimes, by not bringing back terrorists who travel to ISIS territory. If we do all that, Mr. Brekelmans, we have so much space in the Netherlands! Then we've got 200,000 places. Then we have 100,000 houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u61	So for the good people, there's no room right now. Instead of making room for this cabinet, first for the ordinary Dutchman, it chooses to hunt Dutch people out of their homes, neighbourhoods, cities and even land. Yes, there is war in Ukraine, and yes, that's why millions of people are fleeing. These millions of people are mainly taken care of in their region, in their neighbouring countries, but also in the safe parts of their own country. That's a good thing, 'cause that's the way it's supposed to be. This cabinet creates its own crisis and then it squeaks that the crisis is and is seized by emergency legislation. Instead of solving the identified and self-created crisis, the cabinet chooses to take away civil rights and allow the Dutch to pay the price. This shows the hatred of this cabinet for the common Dutchman. Because why call out a crisis for the Ukrainians but not for the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u62	I wonder if Mr Markuszower could give an example or a few examples, perhaps, because he was rather empathetic about it, of people whose civil rights were taken away by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u63	I am, of course, always talking about the situation in which Articles 4 and 7 can be activated. This cabinet is apparently able, in this situation, in which there is no need at all, to take this law out of the drawer, which is not intended at all for Ukrainians but to save Dutch people in distress, and to activate already Articles 2c and 4. That's a sort of predicament to further restrictive measures. We've seen it before in the previous cabinet with corona. Once they have the power, they'll use those resources. Activating this law, and by the way, allowing the Chamber to decide only three months after activation whether it should continue, so keeping the Chamber waiting three months for it, while the law says "unfortunately".... simply shows that these people are unable to handle this kind of legislation prudently. I am very scared, and that is also foreseeable, that they could also activate those other articles. And then there's no civil rights anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u64	Well, that was a lot of words not to answer my question. For my question was what civil rights are being taken away by the law that is now before us, with the articles that are being activated in it, which are also very clearly described in the explanatory memorandum of the law and in all the statements of the cabinet about it. What civil rights are being taken away by the law we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u65	Mrs Podt refers to the explanatory statement. If you look at that explanatory statement, do you know that this law should have been activated even now, not even Articles 2c and 4 for a situation we are in today? Just the fact that they've pulled this law out of the drawer and now they've activated all those two articles and so the threat hangs over all of us that they're activating those other articles, shouldn't all the emergency clocks and bells ring? Then, as a Chamber, we must say, "No, cabinet, you have really out of line. This law was not meant to help Ukrainians. This law was intended to protect Dutch people in extreme need, in the event of war or huge environmental disasters, floods, huge disasters"? That is what this law is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u66	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u67	For the fact that they took this law out of the drawer, which means that the threat of activating Articles 4 and 7 is hanging in the air, we all have to be very scared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u68	Mrs. Podt, concluding, briefly. The same goes for Mr. Markuszower. It really needs to be shorter. We fall into repetitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u69	I note that Mr Markuszower has no answer to my questions on civil rights. The whole story, all the doom scenarios he's sketching: none of that's happening at all. I'm recording that he just doesn't have any answers to those questions at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u70	I'm going to see Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u71	I would like to clarify two more factual points. Mr Markuszower says: why are we not talking about this after three months? We in the Chamber are about the agenda, not the cabinet. At the request of one of my colleagues, there was the idea of organising a technical briefing with experts first and then having the debate. So if Mr Markuszower now blames the cabinet for that, I think he should know better as a parliamentarians who have been around for some time. The second point is that I am also critical of the use of this law. Only, Mr Markuszower says: the cabinet should never have used this law for the use of refugees. Let me remind him of what is in the explanatory memorandum on Article 24. It says literally, and that is only one sentence: "There may be circumstances, such as when crossing our borders of large groups of refugees, where it is desirable to be able to make use of the rules laid down in the draft." Does Mr Markuszower actually agree with me that this law does allow for this, but that the question is whether you consider it desirable? But if you're saying you couldn't have done this, that's actually not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u72	No, I read the explanatory memorandum correctly. Indeed, the article-by-article explanatory statement of Article 24 contains such a small sentence. But if you read the whole explanatory statement - I have also marked it, then it says "for the protection of the population." The whole explanatory statement is therefore written in the light of the protection of the Dutch population. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dus ook niet anders dan concluderen dat de toelichting bij artikel 24 ook moet gaan over de bescherming van de Nederlandse bevolking.]] So you can read it very widely, what Mr. Brekelmans is doing, perhaps Mr. Brekelmans isn't from home either; I don't know; but if you just read it as lawyers should read it, then everything points out that Article 24 can also be used if it protects the Dutch population. This point I make is also supported by a lot of legal scholars; articles have also been written about it. We didn't have a technical briefing that was asked for. In the end, there was no round table either. So as a chamber, we couldn't question the secretary of state on this. But a bit of a lawyer who takes the explanatory statement, knows that it is about protecting the Dutch population.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u73	A little lawyer would know that you can never be a refugee in your own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u74	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u75	No, then you're an expatriate. According to every legal definition, you're not a fugitive until you cross a border. So Mr Markuszower can now pretend that I am not legally competent in the field of asylum, but he should know that when talking about a refugee, it is always someone who has crossed a border. In this case, the Dutch cannot, by definition, be concerned with legislation here in their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u76	Mr. Markuszower, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u77	Then there is still no proper reading. That article 24 is about the following. Large groups of refugees may emerge around the border of the Netherlands. This law could then be used for the protection of the Dutch population, not for the protection of other population groups. That is why I say that you should read that article in the context of that whole explanatory statement and then you can only conclude that even if there are large flows of refugees around us, that law can be used to protect the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u78	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u79	Yeah, where was I? Mr President, why call out a crisis for the Ukrainians, but not for the Dutch? I am talking about the Dutchman who does not or barely get around, the Dutchman whose children are sent to school without sandwiches, because the money is simply gone. I am talking about the Dutchman who succumbs to the towering gas and energy bill, the Dutchman who can't live anywhere anymore; homes have not been or have become priceless. I am talking about the Dutchman who is forced to avoid care, who is no longer able to supply the petrol or diesel, the Dutchman who sees his farm taken away, the Dutchman whose children, at least in the surcharge scandal by the government, have been kidnapped. The pain in so many Dutch households is so great; that is the crisis. But before that, this cabinet is hearing deaf and seeing blind. This cabinet does nothing about all these problems and all that suffering with the ordinary Dutchman. In fact, an Ukrainian family receives more assistance than a Dutch welfare worker. The discrimination of this cabinet towards the ordinary Dutchman is shameless. Cabinet members who so much hate the common Dutchman, now, through this emergency legislation, also receive the legal means to stop that hatred. We in the Chamber have to stop this cabinet today. We must tell them that they must solve crises which they themselves have caused themselves and that they must not allow the Dutch to pay the price for their malpractice by means of coercive or coercive measures. Apart from the fact that this law is not intended for such situations and has therefore been unlawfully activated, the activation of this law is also not proportionate. The Cabinet itself knows that well. That is why the cabinet has recently announced a new, regular law, so that this emergency law can be returned to a drawer. To those people who are now relieved to breathe and say that this regular new law will certainly take care of everything, I say: beware. 'Cause that regular law always applies. And that law will force shelter. Each municipality can then be forced to take care of on the basis of a regular law. As long as this cabinet says that there is room for all real refugees in the Netherlands, as long as this cabinet says that foreigners in the Netherlands have more rights than Dutch citizens, as long as this cabinet is willing to give away our prosperity to foreigners and is willing to give up our security and as long as this cabinet keeps the asylum points open for everyone, including fake refugees, the Netherlands will continue to flood until we flood. But then no law will help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u81	It's been fun, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u82	Yeah, we enjoyed it again. I call Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Since February, one in five Ukrainians has fled their own country. Over 8 million people, children are on the run. That's unbelievable. A small proportion of them have registered in the Netherlands: an estimated 65,000 people. That's about as many people as there are living in the city of Assen. Those people are fleeing war violence. Of that, I think: shall we ensure that these people, everyone who flees a war and has to leave everything, find a safe way to go? Will we ensure that we keep international agreements that we have made on how to take care of refugees and how to deal with people who flee from war violence? In any case, that is my commitment: that we take responsibility for the fate of these people with other countries, the surrounding countries. Mr. Chairman. This minister is a resident of Amsterdam. I had to think of one of the crosses in the coat of arms of the city of Amsterdam, mercy. That also applies when we talk about women and children who are on the run and who are coming out of a horrible situation. To treat tonight... Well, this afternoon; that was actually quite optimistic of the one who helped with this contribution. This afternoon we are discussing the Continuing Act Articles 2c and 4 of the Relocation Population Act. That is an exciting name; that has also been shown. But what is it really about? We lay down the task of mayors to take care of the reception and care of displaced persons, refugees from Ukraine. That's how I read the bill. That's the scope. I would like to ask the Minister for a clear confirmation that that is the only thing this law is about. It is very good that the Minister states in the note on the report that, for example, no buildings can be claimed on the basis of the law, even if there is a colleague who claims that they are, and that this is not the case at the moment. Is my group aware that, in the unlikely event that such a thing would be necessary, the Chamber would have to go through a procedure before the Minister took action? In what situation could the Minister possibly imagine this? Mr. Chairman. At the same time, however, state emergency law is being activated here. That is not nothing, because this calls for a very solid basis for subsidiarity, temporaryity and proportionality. The Christian Union also wants to ensure that we take this instrument too quickly, because the more you do it, the more common it gets. But that is also what we want to keep the responsibility where it belongs: first of all, the COA, which is simply responsible for the reception of refugees. We also want mayors, when we appeal to them on the authority they have, to try to live up to that with their city council, without having to come up with an arrangement from The Hague that says: go like this. Can the Minister, therefore, explain why there was no less far-reaching alternative available at the moment, as I also see that the social willingness to help is enormous? I come across volunteers and churches active in helping Ukrainian refugees in a variety of places. Was there really no route possible without the activation of this law? Mr. Chairman. The termination of this bill can take place when Ukrainians can receive shelter through the regular legal structures, the government writes. That makes sense, but frankly, the other problems that we are seeing in the asylum chain will then arise. That is why it seems further away. But can the Minister indicate how she sees it now and how we can prevent it from getting in the way of one another? What exactly goes wrong when this law wouldn't have been activated? Mr. Chairman. The influx of Ukrainian refugees is therefore part of a broader story of an asylum chain that has been squeaking and cracking for too long, and in which people have to wait far too long for decent reception. In response to our questions, the Minister says that this law was chosen because the existing structures do not provide for the necessary reception of Ukrainians, but that is the case for many refugees from other countries. We see that now, quite frankly, almost every week concretely at the registration center in Ter Apel. We all care when we see people sitting out there in chairs. A Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management has been set up. I would like a reflection from the Minister, in particular on the comments made by the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the Justice and Security Inspectorate, who wrote a letter of fire about the position of children in the current crisis in the asylum shelter, and the tension between that situation and what we are doing here for the reception of Ukrainian refugees. In addition, it is very clear to me that they both need to be taken care of. Shall we make sure we take care of those kids in a very good way? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. My group is not in favour of lightly dealing with state emergency law. Nor do I propose to activate this for other displaced persons or refugees, but my group really wants to ensure that there is an incorrect distinction in the activation of state emergency law. Hence the question to the Minister to deal with it precisely. A lot has been set up for the reception of refugees, for example by Utrecht churches, but also in many other places in the country. I would simply like to express my appreciation for that in this place. We are talking about an emergency solution that the cabinet is looking for, but we also see a lot of people who, apart from that emergency solution, are putting their shoulders on it. What's that worth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u84	Thank you. There's another interruption from Mr. Brekelmans for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u85	I have a brief comment to make to Mrs Bikker, because she is also asking questions about the asylum reception of children. We had a whole debate today on asylum reception, and we had that last week. All these issues have been addressed. We are now talking to the Minister of Justice about a law that is not about the reception of asylum seekers. So perhaps the Minister can answer these questions briefly, but I would like to confirm to Mrs Bikker that this law is not about that, also to prevent this from becoming a broad asylum debate. We all have questions about asylum, but we are talking about the law applicable to Ukrainian refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u86	Here is a spokesperson from the Justice Committee, who is a little more dedicated to state emergency law than the spokesman for Asylum. That is precisely why, because I see that two legal systems are now being created, namely the law that says to the COA 'rule the reception of refugees' and this law, which says to the Ukrainian refugees 'we are going to do it', I had my concerns. I thought, "How would that be resolved?" I was gonna read about that. I saw precisely the reactions of the two inspections I mentioned and the express desire for the cabinet to conduct them, not only for the brief moment where I really understand the consideration; you will hear me not complain about them, but also in the longer term. I think it is an important distinction, and that is why I shall name it here, without the desire to launch a wide-ranging asylum debate. Wide the debate was already becoming, uplifting it was even less, but perhaps that increases over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u87	Thank you. Then I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Eerdmans of JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u88	Thank you, Mr President. We are therefore talking today about the law of 1952, which was originally intended for evacuations and what is more. Now it is about declaring a number of articles applicable to the Ukrainian refugee crisis. By virtue of Article 4, mayors are given the legal task of providing reception services. In short, it is the emergency legislation whereby the cabinet has given the obligation for municipalities to receive Ukrainian refugees a legal framework. That is something that JA21 feels heavy about for a number of reasons and which it has reservations about. Presumed: JA21 feels that we have also said from the very beginning that the Netherlands must take up its role in the Ukrainian refugee crisis. First of all, of course, by supporting countries in the direct region, such as Poland and Hungary, in terms of logistics and finance. But the closer the Ukrainians can be received at home, the better that is, especially for themselves. We have also indicated that if the neighbouring countries can no longer accept it, the Netherlands will also have to bear its responsibility in the reception of Ukrainian refugees, mostly women and children. But it is subject to a number of conditions. It must be realistic, manageable, explicitly temporary and always as a closing point, not as an end in itself. According to the latest figures of the government, the number of registered Ukrainian refugees in the Netherlands is now around 68,000. That includes private care. The number of occupied beds in emergency care amounts to almost 48 000 of the total 52.658 available. I thought the Secretary of State told us this afternoon that we're at 92% of capacity. It is a very large number, you can say, which makes it impossible to say that we, the Netherlands, have done too little. The municipalities have cooperated fully and loyally in this. But even now, the cabinet doesn't set a limit. Again, there is no point in the cabinet saying that absorption capacity has once been achieved. The answer to a far-reaching influx is only: scaling up. We fear that this will once again lead to an open-ended scheme, with a stick in the form of a legal obligation behind the door. This approach therefore seems to be a prelude to whatever the government intends to do with the regular asylum reception. As far as JA21 is concerned, therefore, the entry into force of this law is not only inappropriate, because, as far as we are concerned, it should be voluntary and the powers of municipalities themselves, and disproportionately, because there was already a great deal of care provided, but it also provides a dangerous precedent, we think. The explanatory statement on the duration of the entry into force of these two articles states that they will be put back into effect when circumstances permit. This is the case when, through regular, non-emergency legal structures, all the necessary reception can be provided for again in a responsible manner and therefore the need to regulate the allocation of that task and its implementation by means of the emergency legislation we are discussing. However, the note on the report remains unclear when this moment is reached according to the cabinet and what specific criteria are used for this. I'd like a reaction. How does the cabinet rhyme with the dress-up of all kinds of new regular structures with the temporary character that Ukrainian refugees should be receiving? Realising that the conflict in Ukraine will continue for a long time to come. The return of the Ukrainians who have fled their country before is also, fortunately, increasing. According to recent UNHCR figures, approximately one in three people who had fled Ukraine now appear to have returned to Ukraine. I would like a response, also in the light of the comments of the Council of State. It explicitly states that state emergency law should be handled with great restraint. Mr. Chairman. In addition, there is also a large number of non-Ukrainians among Ukrainian refugees. We know the example of the Frisian Twigel, where half of the people in the shelter for Ukrainians were African young men. On May 19th the counter stood nationwide at 3,020 non-Ukrainians in total, we read in the pieces. How many are there now? Most of them are those who would have studied in Ukraine at the time of the raid. We also get sounds from those directly involved that the controls in practice have little to do with anything. I'd like a response to that. But even if everything is true, then of course these people have a home country that is not Ukraine to which they hopefully will be able to return. However, they do not do this, for example in De Telegraaf's article about Twijell, because they want to study in the Netherlands. A question to the Minister: does she recognise that this is not about refugees, but actually about migrants? And what conclusions does she draw from this? Finally, Mr President. Another concern is the measures that are not yet in force. We are talking, among other things, about the progress of buildings. The Cabinet states in both the explanatory statement and in the reply to the written questions that it is endeavouring to avoid the implementation of such additional powers, and that it is not proportionate at the moment. Of course, it stays above the market. However, if the Cabinet considers that the circumstances require it, i.e. when the available reception is tight and other possibilities are exhausted, it can be done. The Chamber gets a letter and it's done. We are deeply concerned that the cabinet does not wish to exclude this possibility. I'm rounding up. We know the cabinet as the cabinet of urge and compulsion. Rutte IV is also called "force I." The Minister also knows all about heat pumps, given her previous function of gas, and, at the moment, the expropriation of farmers and the legal obligation to receive asylum from municipalities. Today's law fits in with that list. JA21 will therefore not agree to this. As stated in the pleading, Article 2 (3) of the People's Movement Act obliges the Government to immediately terminate Articles 2c and 4 in the event of a rejection of the present bill. So the Chamber knows what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u89	Thank you. I call Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u90	Mr. Chairman. During the corona period, we saw a shift in the role of the State. The State has been gaining more and more power and has violated our fundamental rights on a large scale, supposedly in the interests of the collective. 'Cause we had to do it together, and the government became a perpetrator. You weren't allowed to leave your home because of public health. And now there is a new violation of fundamental rights, namely the expropriation of property and the violation of property rights. We also see it in the nitrogen policy of this cabinet, in which farmers are forced to be bought out. With the implementation of the People's Movement Act, the cabinet is re-introducing emergency legislation to take away businesses and houses due to a so-called emergency situation, namely for the reception of asylum seekers. Mr. Chairman. The People's Movement Act is a 1952 law, which is being taken out of the stables to achieve emergency care for asylum seekers. But the law has far-reaching consequences for citizens and businesses. The Minister indirectly obliges municipalities to receive asylum seekers. The city councils are being sidelined. Instead of shutting down the migration crane and making it less attractive to come to the Netherlands, this cabinet facilitates the epic failure of asylum policy by violating fundamental rights. According to emergency law specialist Adriaan Wierenga of the University of Groningen, vacant buildings can be claimed under the Relocation Act, and even a second home can be taken from people for asylum care. The first is already happening: entrepreneurs are forced to give up their property. BVNL finds it absurd that the ownership of the Dutch population should give way to this problem, for asylum seekers. The government shouldn't touch our property. My question to the Minister is therefore: how many asylum seekers must enter the Netherlands, if the cabinet is to take away houses? And is it true that the amounts...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u91	There's been an interruption. Would you like to finish your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u92	Yeah, let me finish my question. Is it true that the amounts received by the municipalities of the Empire through the Charitable Treatment of Displaced Persons in Ukraine yield more municipalities than when the premises are rented out to companies? So is it true that the Empire actually encourages the municipalities to chase companies away?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u93	Mr Van Haga makes two suggestions here which are not correct. The first is that he keeps talking about "asylum seekers." Can he at least confirm that this law is about Ukrainian displaced persons and that Ukrainians are not currently applying for asylum, so that the term 'asylum seekers' is not quite right here? This is only about Ukrainians and not about asylum seekers. That is the suggestion that Mr Van Haga makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u94	You're absolutely right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u95	I'm glad he's okay with that. The second is that he says: it already leads to companies having to give up their premises. But on the basis of this law and the two articles that have been activated, it is very clear that it is only about laying down a responsibility with a mayor and that this has nothing to do with private property, let alone individual buildings. So can Mr Van Haga clearly state that the suggestion he is making is not the case with what the cabinet has done so far and in the last four months?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u96	I think Mr Brekelmans is saying it exactly right. It's a suggestion. It's hanging over the market. That's what Mr Markuszower just said. Mr Eerdmans said the same thing. It's hanging over the market. Article 7 is laid in the week. If we continue, a threat that we do see hanging over the market, it can come to this. It's a far-reaching law. I fully agree with you that Article 2c and Article 4 do not give rise to this. But it's in line with this law. The articles on the basis of which this can be done are also included. The concern of BVNL is also that it will come to this. But what you're saying is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u97	That's clear. Mr Van Haga says that it hangs over the market and is a threat, as if the cabinet intends to move forward tomorrow or within a week. But the cabinet has said several times and very clearly that it sees no indication or reason to do so at the moment. That law has been in force for four months. With the influx of Ukrainians over the last four months, the cabinet has clearly indicated that there is no reason or indication to do so. Besides, we're working on a temporary law that's going to replace this law. The image as if there were a threat and hanging above the market that this is happening tomorrow is perhaps a fear that Mr Van Haga has. That's up to him. But it's not based on what the cabinet says and has shown so far. Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u98	My confidence in what the cabinet does or says has fallen to absolute zero in the corona period. When I read in the explanatory statement that it is not proportional at the moment and that there is no reason for it at the moment, I actually read: not at the moment, but beware, perhaps at a later moment. That's exactly my fear, and I think it's justified. We have seen how the panels slide, for example in corona time and now again on the nitrogen file and the energy file and through the Ukrainian war. You cannot really blame me for the fact that my sense of confidence in this cabinet is really very low. In this explanatory statement I read great concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u99	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u100	Mr. Chairman. In addition, emergency legislation is in place for emergency situations. The People's Movement Act is there for acute threat, such as floods and war situations. With the implementation of Article 2c per royal decree, it is now also applicable to large flows of asylum seekers. This is not covered by acute threats as referred to in the law. When the Royal Decree and thus Articles 2c and 4 of the People's Movement Act entered into force on 31 March, 10,000 shelters were still available. And even now, thousands of places are still available. And yes, mass immigration is a major problem, a problem created by the government by not regulating asylum flows, but it is a problem that can easily be solved within the regular legal frameworks. Mr. Chairman. Emergency rights should be used with the greatest possible restraint if regular measures cannot provide a solution. For BVNL the solution is very simple. The uncontrolled flow of asylum can easily be stopped: close the borders, step out of international refugee treaties and commit to the expulsion of safe people. In this way, we keep more than enough space to temporarily catch war refugees. Fortunately, we still have a laundry list of alternatives to the Relocation Population Act. The cabinet could also use empty state buildings for shelter, rent holiday parks and hotels, hire other private property in consultation, evict asylum seekers from azc's in order to free up shelters for Ukrainians, and evict illegals from the shelters of the national aliens. I would like a comprehensive response from the Minister to each of these proposals. How have the alternatives to the far-reaching People's Relocation Act been weighed up and why has it been decided to remove the emergency right? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of questions about the time limit for the so-called emergency. At what time does the Minister intend to end the state of emergency? Will this only end when municipalities are forced to take on migrants with the new law that is coming? Finally, Mr President. BVNL will vote against the implementation of Articles 2c and 4 of the People's Movement Act. Municipal councils or citizens are sidelined and asylum seekers are forced to do so. Our democracy and our fundamental rights are once again at risk with the implementation of the People's Movement Act. In this context, BVNL argues in favour of extravagance rather than restraint. The real problem is a government that is becoming more and more committed to violating fundamental rights. Whether it concerns farmers, fishermen, SMEs or owners of homes and premises, BVNL has one appeal to this collectivist State: stay away from our property, in the interest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u101	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first weeks after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, large numbers of Ukrainians came to the Netherlands in a short time: refugees from our region looking for a safe place. Of the millions of Ukrainians crossing the border with the EU, we did not know how many would come to the Netherlands. It was not an easy task to arrange tens of thousands of shelters for Ukrainians in a short time. This called for swift action by the cabinet, the security regions, municipalities and many more involved. The asylum chain could not cope with these tens of thousands of Ukrainians. The tasks and responsibilities had therefore to be invested quickly with mayors. It is understandable that the cabinet has used emergency legislation to provide this with a legal basis. However, the VVD has reservations about the legal solution chosen. The People's Movement Act was originally intended for other situations, such as war or flooding in the Netherlands. The law is now applied to a situation in which a war outside the Netherlands leads to refugee flows to the Netherlands. The law offers some room for this. According to the Council of State, this interpretation and application can be explained. However, that does not remove the reservations expressed by my group. I ask the Minister whether it is desirable to use such an old law which, if you look at all the articles, is potentially very far-reaching, and whether it is desirable to apply the interpretation of this law so widely. How's the cabinet looking at this? And have the same concerns for the cabinet been the reason to announce the drafting of new temporary legislation? If this is the case, the VVD would like to support the cabinet in this initiative to come up with new temporary legislation. It is understandable that a legal solution is sometimes needed in a crisis situation. When there seems to be more time, it is desirable to provide this with a more solid and targeted legal basis. Can the Minister say anything about the scope of this temporary law? Does it contain the same measures as the articles in the People's Movement Act or is its scope much more limited? I also have a question about the short term, because at the moment the Netherlands is catching more than 68,000 Ukrainians, of whom more than 47,000 Ukrainians are using municipal shelter. We see that this number is still rising weekly, especially because Ukrainians travel from Poland and Germany. There are almost 52,000 places available, which means that the buffer of about 5,000 places could be full within a few weeks if municipalities do not realize additional places. Activating only Articles 2c and 4 has brought limited consequences to date. Will the Minister state quite clearly once again that if the cabinet is considering activating other articles of the law, the Chamber will be informed in good time so that we can debate them? Finally, I would like to stress that the use of emergency law with far-reaching powers must be an extremely important means of rescue. This requires a clear need and a solid legal basis. We see that the cabinet has had to resort to emergency law more often in recent years. The cabinet has previously indicated that it is working on an update of the emergency right. I ask the Minister what the state of affairs is. When can we expect anything about this towards the Chamber? What would such an update of the emergency right in the future mean for a crisis situation as we have experienced in recent months with Ukrainian refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u103	Is that the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u105	Then there is another interruption for you from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u106	If I listen carefully to Mr Brekelmans, he hesitates whether or not he should support this law. I can imagine something about that. If the Chamber were to reject this law and the temporary law was not yet in place, what would it do with the point that immediately the basis for mayors and municipalities to take on Ukrainians?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u107	I said that I understand that in the emergency situation we were in, the cabinet had to come to a quick solution. And I understand that the cabinet has come to this law, especially since only those two articles have been activated, mayors have been given these tasks and activation in practice has limited consequences. As far as I am concerned, these two articles can remain active until there is a temporary law. If we are now asked not to allow that law to continue, I will vote against it. I do think it is a legal patch that has been glued up, and that is why I think it is right that the cabinet should come up with a different solution. I have asked a number of questions about what the temporary law means and when we can expect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u108	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u109	Mr. Brekelmans speaks of need as a reason for this law. As I understand it, there are 10,000 empty beds left. What kind of emergency were we talking about at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u110	There certainly weren't 10,000 empty beds. When the war broke out on February 24th, we saw that within a few weeks thousands of Ukrainians came to the Netherlands. That soon became tens of thousands. In fact, the security regions have realized this from day one. At that time, there were no beds available at the COA or any other type of beds. So we saw in practice that the mayors did this without a legal basis. We could have said that there is no legal basis for what is happening now in practice. I welcome the fact that a legal basis has been sought, because it was the mayors who realized the beds very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u111	May I conclude, then, that it was a legal necessity, but not a practical necessity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u112	There was a practical need to realize beds very quickly. We have seen that it has taken a great deal of effort for municipalities to do so. We see in the summer months that the number of beds is slowly falling, because many holiday parks, hotels and other things are now needed for other purposes in the summer. So there was definitely a practical need to arrange beds. When we saw that security regions and mayors quickly picked that up, there was also a legal need to support that practice legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u113	Rounding off, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u114	But was this law necessary to get those beds done at all? Wouldn't that have worked out just fine without this law? With all due respect, I don't see what would have been practically different without this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u115	Mr. Brekelmans, short as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u116	It would have been different in practice. We are now asking for four months, but probably longer, of mayors to take responsibility for the realization of these beds. That's what they're being called upon to do. At the moment when mayors and security regions do not deliver those 1,000 and then 2,000 beds that have been requested, they are called upon to do so. If we had done so for months without any legal basis, I would have found that an undesirable situation. Mr Stoffer would probably have said to the cabinet once: we've been doing it together for months now and it's about serious numbers; what's the legal basis? 'Cause there isn't. I would have thought that was an undesirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u117	Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This law concerns the reception of nearly 70,000 refugees from Ukraine, as a result of Putin's brutal invasion of Ukraine on 24 February. The protection directive was soon introduced. This quickly enabled refugees from Ukraine to be received. The government was against it at the time. How do you look back on that? The government had to come up with emergency solutions. It was quick switching to find enough places. It worked. I saw it in Amsterdam and it looked good. At the same time, we must be cautious with the right to an emergency. That's why I was surprised to activate the Crisis Act, while there were over 10,000 beds available. How does the government justify the use of emergency rights when there was no shortage of places at that time? Was the use of this emergency right and the People's Movement Act really necessary? In the written input I already asked why emergency legislation was needed. After all, there were beds available. So there seemed to be still some time to draft a law. So why not consider the regular road? Now it is a bit like we are a stamp machine that can approve something afterwards. That's not very nice, especially if the Secretary of State comes up with a regular law. Isn't it all mustard after dinner? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the substantive questions. The essence of the law is that municipalities are legally responsible for the reception of displaced persons from Ukraine. But how are the municipalities enabled by the Empire to do this? It is known that municipalities struggle with a shortage of equipment and building materials. The Association of Dutch Municipalities also struggles with feasibility and finance. The fact that the government referred to the Salvation Army and the Red Cross was a bit embarrassing. How do you see it? What is the government going to do to bring about 75,000 beds in the short term? The war continues, but we read about declining acceptance in host families to accommodate people. How do you enable municipalities to comply with the legal obligation of the law? What will happen if refugees from Ukraine get a residence permit? Then the demand for housing will increase. I'd like a response. When exactly is this law coming to an end? That's not quite clear yet. The Secretary of State is still coming up with a regular law. At what time can the Chamber expect this? Another concern: coherence with the protection directive. The current construction is because refugees from Ukraine do not have to apply for asylum. What does it mean if that protection directive is not renewed? Will the displaced still have to apply for asylum? Are they or are they not under the COA? I'd like some clarity. The final point, Mr President. The difference between the reception of Ukrainians and the so-called regular asylum seekers. While thousands of beds are empty, the regular asylum seekers sleep on seats in Ter Apel. How do you look at this when two laws are being worked on: one for the Ukrainians and one for the appointment of regular asylum seekers? Is this distinction sustainable? Or is it better to combine the laws? The UNG also argues in favour of this. Mr. Chairman. We must protect those who are entitled to it, preferably with a legal basis that fits in with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u119	Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u120	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague Bishop this afternoon, who has to go absent due to illness. Our group has been surprised that the cabinet considered it necessary to use the state emergency law for the reception of Ukrainian refugees. On 1 April, Articles 2c and 4 of the People's Movement Act were put into effect. Mayors were thus given the legal task of taking care of the reception of Ukrainian refugees. The fact that we need to take good care of people in need is beyond doubt for the SGP. The support for the shelter was and is still large. The shelter therefore went almost without any problems. Municipalities, families and churches all open their doors and hearts. I would like to express our deep appreciation from here on out. At the end of March, 31,820 beds were available in our country for fled Ukrainians. Over 10,000 of them weren't even occupied at the time. No one had to sleep in the cold. So we cannot talk about inhumane situations. Why was this force taken? In the written round, the SGP asked a large number of questions. Even after replying, we are still left with a lot of questions. That the Minister does not go into our main point, which I have just appointed, I find significant. In my opinion, the People's Movement Act is not at all meant for the circumstances we had here. Mr. Chairman. What kind of law are we talking about? The People's Movement Act was created to evacuate their own population. According to the legislator, this law is intended for the case of war, danger of war, if the dikes break and associated or related exceptional circumstances. The law can be used to relocate the population in the interests of its safety, to preserve social life or to carry out the task of the armed forces. The treatment in Parliament also makes it clear that the law clearly sees a war or an acute emergency. Although the reception of Ukrainian refugees is a result of war, this is fortunately not the case within our borders. There are no hostile tanks at our land border and our dikes are not broken either. At least, as far as our information goes, of course. I know more about the latter than I do about the former, as a civil engineer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u121	That's another committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u122	That's another committee, so we're not gonna talk about that. But the Minister argues that the legislator has explicitly pointed out the use of the Relocation Population Act in the event of a large influx of refugees. Only that is also stated as part of the objective of the law. So, in case of war or an emergency. The only conclusion to be drawn is that the People's Movement Act does not apply now. A few questions about this are the following. I would like a reflection of the Minister in the background and the objective of this law. Does it share the conclusion that the use of this law should be limited to situations of war or acute need and that this is not the case now? And what alternatives has the Cabinet considered and why has not one of these alternatives been chosen? Mr. Chairman. Why am I making a point of this now? That is because, in our opinion, we need to deal very carefully with legislation, especially when legislation can seriously infringe essential freedoms. And the People's Movement Act allows for coercion. The cabinet does not see any reason for this at the moment, and it will need a permanent law again, but in the long term coercive measures are indeed possible. The mayor could force residents to move or leave. And an office building or a house could be impounded. Now agree to the use of this law brings closer the use of such coercive measures and I do not think that we should want to do so. That is why I ask the Minister once again for an escalation ladder for the use of this law. When and under what conditions does the Minister consider coercion to be possible? In our opinion, the government's reasoning is flawed on more points, because the Minister does not seem to be able to justify why the law can be used for Ukrainian refugees and not for regular asylum seekers. In the written round, the Christian Union rightly asked why the People's Movement Act was not used in previous asylum crises. The government responds that the current very sudden influx of Ukrainian refugees is so large that the existing structures could not provide the necessary reception. But, is my question, was it not the case in 2015-2016 during the previous asylum crisis? The water was over the COA at the time. And the reception of asylum seekers is still completely out of order. And that's the big underlying problem that comes to the surface with this. Now agreeing to the use of this law, without any justification as to why this would apply to Ukrainians and not to the reception of asylum seekers, also brings compulsion to the reception of regular asylum seekers. And the SGP thinks it's risky. Let us continue our efforts to build support rather than break it down with our own hands! Mr. Chairman. What is striking is that the Minister's argument has also changed. When the Civilian Movement Act was activated, it was mainly pointed out that sufficient shelters had to be created for the very large number of refugees, while, if we look at the states, 10,000 empty beds were still available. In the meantime, it seems to the government that this argument does not make enough sense. The note on the report therefore stresses in particular that the reception and care of displaced persons should be provided with a legal basis. But that only adds to my surprise, because that is not what the state's emergency law is meant for. We are still talking about the Civilian Movement Act and not about the law on the reception and care of refugees. I would very much like a response from the Minister. The Dutch Society of Mayors and the VNG are also critical of the use of the law. Mayors became an implementation window of the national government, which determines what the mayor should do by means of rules. This law also excluded the municipal councils, so that they could no longer fulfil their role as democratic controller. The government indicates that this task has been temporarily assigned to mayors, but yes, how long is "temporary"? There is now an administrative framework with municipalities, but the cabinet still holds on to emergency rights. Why is this framework alone insufficient? Work is under way on a temporary law to replace this permanent law. My question is whether the Minister can at least promise that democratic control will be allowed to take place in it, so that municipal councils are no longer out of play. Mr. Chairman. Today, the cabinet seems to be finding it easier to resort to crisis measures. This law was activated by royal decree and parliament was passed. My group has great difficulty with that. It is true that the People's Movement Act allows immediate action to be taken without the Court expressing its opinion, and that is logical in scenarios such as those for which the law is intended: acute need. Then we must act immediately. But, as I said, we do not think that was the case. In the meantime, the Chamber is faced with a fulfilled fact and we can only express our opinion on this continuing law. Officials indicated that prior probes were desirable in parliament, as was the case with curfew, for example. But the cabinet has made the choice not to probe the parliament and thus bypass it. And my question is why? And how does it look back on the course of events under this continuing law? And above all: what lessons does the cabinet draw towards the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u123	Thank you. I see there's another interruption for you from Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u124	Mr Stoffer has a lot of criticism of the way the cabinet operates. What I disagree with is that he says that there was no crisis. In the first weeks of March, April, tens of thousands of people were involved in a very short time. Normally, about 30.00 asylum seekers come here in a year, maybe a little more: 40,000. That number was already reached within a month to one and a half months and we did not know how many more it would be. So the cabinet had to realize the number of shelters in a month, in an asylum system that was already overcrowded, for which it normally has a year. And that without knowing how much it would be after that. There was therefore an acute need to achieve reception sites very quickly in all kinds of ways. The cabinet can't practically do that all over the country, so the mayor has been deployed for that. If Mr Stoffer at least recognizes that there was an emergency at the time, because something had to be arranged that was not there yet, very soon and on a large scale. If he acknowledges that we wanted to provide a legal basis for that, otherwise mayors will say, if you call them on that: yes, but, what is the legal basis for this? If he acknowledges that, what solution would Mr Stoffer, the SGP, have put forward if he were so critical of what the cabinet is doing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u125	Two things. One. If you want this, I would have called Parliament first. It could have been. Two. I told you, I'm a substitute for my colleague Bishop, but I did take a look at the numbers in the states. I never saw that there was practically one bed short. If that had been any different, if people had been outside, I would have said, "Okay." In practical terms, however, our Dutch society has said: we take responsibility; we see what is going on. In the most unimagined places, houses and everything were released. As far as I'm concerned, that went fine. So the legal basis was not necessary here in our opinion. It's just practically solved very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u126	Neither can we say that, because the legal basis has been created which has given mayors throughout the country the legal task of not only creating the first 25,000 places. I agree with Mr Stoffer that they were there quite quickly, but the realization of the second 25,000 was already a lot more difficult. There are security regions that do not reach the 2,000 to this day. Actually, every extra bed or every 1,000 extra beds you need to realize are still difficult. Mayors have really had to go all the way to achieving it. But they had the legal task of doing so. If they had done so without that legal task, Mr Stoffer does not know that and I do not know that either. But I find it striking that he says that the SGP would be okay if there were no legal basis for that big operation we're asking for from mayors all over the country. This means that tomorrow the cabinet will be able to do anything without a legal basis. Surely that cannot be a sustainable position of the SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u127	One. Of course, there is a core truth in what Mr Brekelmans says. But it wasn't acute, so it could have just been dealt with here in Parliament first, without virtually anything going wrong. And that could have happened very quickly. Now it has been taken to emergency law, emergency state law, while we believe it could have been just normal, with a quick treatment here in the Chamber. Because there was no practical shortage. There was no one on the street. Of course there was a big task. It's practically done. And then it's gonna be a long time before we deal with the law here. So as far as we are concerned, we say that Parliament has been sidelined. I ask that question to the cabinet; I want to know why. What have the considerations been? In our opinion, it could and should have been otherwise. Now it's after, now you're standing there and looking at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u128	That's all we're gonna do, Mr. Brekelmans. Come on, it's clear; you're not gonna agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u129	What I do not think is entirely clear is that Mr Stoffer says that we are only now dealing with it. Because it was precisely the SGP that asked for a technical briefing with experts. Then some of these experts could not at the last minute and the SGP also said that the technical briefing was no longer necessary. That is why we are only now here to deal with this law. We could have done that two months earlier if we had asked for it as a Chamber. If the SGP had requested this, it might have been planned earlier. So with regard to the image that Parliament has been sidelined by the cabinet for months, Mr Stoffer also knows: if we had wanted to talk about this earlier and had not waited for that technical briefing at the request of the SGP, we would have been able to discuss this much earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u130	Mr. Stoffer, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u131	That is, of course, a justified point in itself. My point of criticism is another. There was no emergency situation, but emergency state law has been seized. It could have been otherwise. Of course, we could have talked about this a month and a half earlier, but that is the point of principle. I think that's where we're a little bit different. It would have been different if the people had been outside on the street. Then we'd have told you to do the same. But there was no one on the street; there were permanently enough beds available. Why? Because we have a strong Dutch society, which has said: we are taking up the glove. You can see that everywhere in places private individuals have been caught with a huge amount of effort. We must be very economical about this strength in Dutch society. We should not paralyze them by laws that you put through each time as a kind of emergency measure, because then we will get the strength out of our Dutch society. We shouldn't want that. It's a little longer, Mr. Chairman, but I'm pretty high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u132	I understand. Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u133	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Citizens of the Netherlands. The people in the public gallery who are following this important debate are also welcome. The devastation, destruction and brutality of this war have forced tens of thousands of Ukrainians to flee massively. Ukrainians still need our help very much. If care is not possible in our own region, the Netherlands must be able to take care of these people in a decent way. However, because of the large numbers of people, this has proved to be a particularly difficult task. Not only because our asylum system is now completely hidden, because it was before the war. That is why the government has suggested that this should be described as a national crisis, which means that emergency legislation should be used in the eyes of the cabinet. According to the Cabinet, exceptional circumstances call for a derogation from existing structures. The People's Movement Act is now central here, specifically Articles 2c and 4. In order to be able to use these laws, state emergency law is necessary. This has already been discussed on 31 March and we are only now having a debate on it. Doesn't that say enough? If a debate on the implementation of this emergency right can wait three months and six days, it says a lot about the need: there is no need. It is not clear to me why this is now an emergency. What has emergency legislation been activated for, which could violate fundamental fundamental rights? As far as I am concerned, this should only be allowed if our country is disrupted by major threats: violent revolutions or acts of war against the Kingdom of the Netherlands or large-scale disasters. That is not the case here. Is the Netherlands in a tense situation? Is the Netherlands in a difficult period? Isn't the Netherlands a cool country at the moment? Absolutely. Is there a problem? Sure. But there is no need for state emergency law to resolve this. In fact, it's disproportionate. State emergency law must be the very last buoy to which the State can cling in order to protect itself from threats that threaten the survival of our State. This means that all other options need to be considered before we can talk about state emergency law at all. Did the cabinet try this? No. At least, I didn't see it or notice it. Can the Minister explain to us what options have gone through to reach such a rigorous decision and, if not, why not? The Rutte Cabinets have stalled our asylum procedure in recent years. This has led to insufficient flow of asylum seekers. Rejected asylum seekers from safe countries who are not threatened by their existence are not taken back by the countries of origin. What has the government done to remedy this or at least alleviate it? I haven't seen it yet. In order to force this flow, the government should have put a hard fist on the table in negotiations with countries such as Morocco. We have that power and should have used it a long time ago. Nor has the government established any national frameworks. The government has not or hardly actively taken the lead in creating adequate asylum reception. Lelystad Airport has been empty for years and so will in the years to come. Set that up for safelanders who are not threatened in their lives but who cause nuisance in villages like Budel. So much nuisance that citizens don't dare go on the streets anymore. They no longer dare to pin at an ATM and do not dare to let their daughters go on their bike to their side job at the Jumbo anymore. Bus drivers pass the stop at an azc when they see these troublemakers waiting, because they are afraid for their own safety and that of their passengers. These oppressors now occupy the places of the real refugees: families with children. I'm not making up the examples I mention from Budel. I went to work there this week with Mr Eerdmans. We have expanded with the people in Budel, talked to the entrepreneurs in Budel. They have given all these examples, and I understood that D66 and SP have also accepted an invitation to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u134	Mrs van der Plas, there is an interruption by Mr Brekelmans. I'd like to ask Mr. Brekelmans to come to a real conclusion with interruptions. I understand it's legislation, but this is your thirteenth. You should give someone else a chance, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u135	Sure. I agree with Mrs van der Plas that we must do everything we can to send people from Morocco back who are not allowed to stay here and that we must deal with nuisances. Only, there is always a suggestion being made here that is factually incorrect. The number of Moroccans, safe people, who come here every year, is several thousand. Then, in a very short time, 30,000, 40,000 to 70,000 Ukrainians arrive here. The image that we would have solved if we had just punched the fist on the table and we could have turned off all these Moroccans, is wrong. In the shelter, that had been 2,000 to 3,000 places, while we now had to deal with 40,000 Ukrainians in a very short time. So does Mrs Van der Plas agree with me that this cannot be put as the solution to the situation we have been facing over the last few months?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u136	I'm not just talking about Moroccans. I am referring to Morocco as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u137	One moment, Mrs. Van der Plas. Gentlemen, will you continue the conversation outside? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u138	I didn't say it was only about Moroccans. It's a matter of safe people. I am referring specifically to safe people who are not threatened by their existence. Because, of course, you also have safe people from other countries who are somehow threatened in their lives. I am also talking about safe people from other countries: Algeria or Tunisia or so to speak. It's not either-or. It's en-and. Let me give you an example. I still have a few words of speech, in which I mention other examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u139	I suggest we listen to that first, Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u140	Rounding...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u141	Even if you add all the safe people together, you can't get above 10,000. Mrs van der Plas says that this situation was not a crisis situation, there was no acute need. Whatever groups you take out of the asylum population, it's a lot smaller than the 30,000, 40,000 people we've been dealing with in one month. Something had to be done urgently in the short term, regardless of what could be done better in the asylum system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u142	That is the opinion of Mr Brekelmans. I think this law goes very far. Fundamental fundamental rights can be reduced. I don't have any laughter in the hallway, by the way. I don't care. Let them laugh. There's far too little laughter in the world, so fine. I think this law just goes way too far when you look at the situations where you should be using it. In the beginning we had a very large influx of Ukrainians. That, of course, means that something must be done to provide shelter for all these people. Yeah, I get that. You can't let anyone sleep on the street. But that's what I think of everyone. I also hate that people walk around the street homeless or sleep in a car because they don't have a home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u144	Anyway, I like this law... But I'm going to explain that further here. That will also be my final conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u145	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u146	The government has also acted reprehensiblely in the handling of unachievable nitrogen targets that have hampered housing. The government has had far too few houses built in previous years. A government that is now playing farmers and citizens against each other by saying that the nitrogen area of farmers is needed to move housing smoothly. You can hear those sounds from the room. "Cow or Houses," a member of the GroenLinks Parliament has tweeted several times. So do not say that farmers and citizens are not played against each other. I'd like to make a little nuance here. The MP who tweets about cows or houses talks about the nitrogen chamber and doesn't talk about the ground. There are still some misunderstandings about that being a matter of the ground. So let me make that nuance, too. Nevertheless, you play burger and farmer against each other. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I believe that this state emergency right will only be put into effect because the government has not put in place the basis for a well-functioning asylum chain. I would also like to point out that I think it is a matter of state law to propose a number of legislative changes when it comes to the activation of emergency legislation. In this Parliament, I do not think we are changing laws on the need, but carefully and thoughtfully; at least, I hope so. This is a law that gives the government a lot of power. If the duration and purpose of the use of this state emergency law had been better framed, there would have been a little less concern with me; still a lot, but a little less. Only now is there a crisis under discussion that can actually be stretched to the limit, so that the use of state emergency law can be explained to an infinite extent. I think that's dangerous. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister when or under what conditions this emergency situation would end. I would also like to hear how many Ukrainian refugees are now in the Netherlands and how many have already decided to return and have returned, and what are the forecasts of the returners for this year. And how do we know for sure that municipalities will all implement the law according to the rules? On many subjects we already see that there is a lot of arbitrariness in municipalities in the implementation of other rules. Mr President, my final question. What's against deactivating the emergency bill by midnight? Because, as it stands, the entry into force of state emergency law and the possible degradation of Dutch property rights contribute to further polarisation on asylum and refugee issues. It creates fear, unrest, incomprehension, uncertainty and uncertainty. At school... Mr. Van Meenen probably knows that. Mr Van Meenen comes from education; not that I was in his class...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u147	It could have been just like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u148	It could have been just like that. Then we would have had some discussions, I suspect, Mr. Van Meenen; chairman, sorry. At school, I've always learned that everything that stands for "un" except the word "us" is not good. The emergency law creates a contradiction in which Ukrainian refugees are blamed for the damage to the Dutch's property rights by an asylum chain that has been completely blocked under the responsibility of the government. I regard this as very damaging to the social debate and support for the reception of genuine war refugees. In short, BBB is against this law and also calls for the law to be deactivated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u149	Thank you very much. I am going to give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As several speakers have already said, this bill stems from the activation of the People's Movement Act. At the end of March, at the beginning of April, it was a while ago, after all, we had to take into account a huge flood of Ukrainian displaced persons, fleeing the terrible war with Russia; I must say: the raid by Russia. At that time, I think we were talking here in the Chamber about numbers such as 300 000 possible displaced persons or perhaps more. Fortunately, this has not been done so far. The Netherlands has managed to give a warm welcome to tens of thousands of displaced persons. Thanks to host families, municipal officials, a lot of organisations such as Refugee Work and the Red Cross, we can offer Ukrainian displaced persons the security they are being brutally deprived of in their own country. In the meantime, we're three months away. The number of Ukrainian refugees is increasing, but not at the moment in numbers that would cause us problems. In the past period, it was precisely the regular asylum provision that was better said: the lack of asylum provision where total chaos is a trump card. Also last night, 30 asylum seekers slept in the outdoors and we catch families with small children in facilities that cause trauma, as the authorities warn. That is the kind of situation that I consider to be an emergency, for which you would really like to overcome all the obstacles in order to ensure that people can be met under acceptable conditions. But those cases are not covered by this law. This gives me a very uncomfortable feeling at the moment. On the one hand, we have a law, an emergency law, and threatened to face a very large influx at the time it was set up, but at the moment that situation is manageable. On the other hand, all this does not apply to the very group that is really vulnerable and where things really go wrong. Mr. Chairman. For the group in which the situation is ultimately manageable, there is a generous political and public support. There's plenty of shelters right now. To that end, the Minister now suspends the activation of state emergency law with this plenary treatment, while the cabinet has actually been wriggling in all sorts of turns since the beginning of the war in order not to choose a solution for that whole group of people who are entitled to shelter. That wrings with each other and makes me feel uncomfortable. We have actually called from the start of the crisis to ensure that the measures you take and the agreements you make with municipalities apply to the whole group that is entitled to care. The government's reasoning not to do that does not convince me either. In the official preparation documents I stumbled upon an intriguing passage: "It is important not to mix the reception of refugees from Ukraine with the regular reception of asylum seekers. This would use the use of emergency powers for the crisis in the reception of refugees from Ukraine to resolve the regular bottlenecks in asylum reception at the same time. That is not the purpose of the right to have fundamental rights at stake." But why is the emergency right not intended for regular bottlenecks that would qualify as an emergency? And why are there no fundamental rights at stake in these regular bottlenecks? Two weeks ago, people had to fight for food and drink at the registration centre in Ter Apel and children were traumatized by the Dutch shelter. So I would like to draw your attention to the thorough legal analysis of Lieneke Slingenberg. She is professor of migration law at the VU. I quote: "Although the structural problems of the COA cannot in itself legitimise the use of state emergency law, I believe that this can be the case if these problems are considered in conjunction with the unforeseen arrival of a large number of refugees from Ukraine, on the one hand, because these structural problems make it even more difficult for the COA to open up new reception centres in 2004 and, on the other hand, because it has become even more difficult for municipalities to comply with their obligation to host status holders, which means that the arrival of a large number of asylum seekers from Ukraine also puts further pressure on the regular reception of asylum seekers." There is therefore a link between the reception of those two groups which are both entitled to care. I would very much like to receive a response from the Minister. I am pleased that in the letter the Minister states that she really meets the feeling in the Chamber that the emergency right should not last longer than is strictly necessary. However, I am concerned about the lack of urgency, because I assume that if we follow the Minister's pace, we will perhaps speak before Christmas about the legal replacement of the People's Movement Act. So I'd like to hear how the Minister sees the timetable. I really hope that the cabinet will choose to come up with a single legislative proposal, which regulates the reception of both Ukrainians and other refugees who have the right to receive reception, and therefore also regulates the powers to be conferred on the municipalities and the responsibility of the COA. In order to help the Secretary of State, excuse the Minister, I think it would be a good idea for her to take note of Mr Grütters' proposal from Radboud University. In the Housing Act, he proposed that the municipal mandate for status holders should also apply to asylum seekers. That could also apply to Ukrainians. I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at that. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u151	That's... I thank you for that; let me put it this way. I shall then give the floor to Mr Slootweg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The war in Ukraine has led to a huge flow of refugees. Millions of people from Ukraine have sought safe refuge because of the war violence, the Russian occupation, and missiles and grenades that strike. A great human drama. Of those millions, several thousand have come to the Netherlands. According to the UNHCR, at the moment there are about 66 000, from Mr Brekelmans I understand that there are 68 000 and Mr Van Dijk is talking about almost 70,000 people. To manage this in the Netherlands, the Cabinet has decided to use Articles 2c and 4 of the People's Movement Act as a legal instrument with the aim of enabling the security regions with their mayors to arrange municipal reception. The implementation of the emergency right, as introduced on 1 April, is temporary. The government has indicated that this should not last longer than is strictly necessary, and therefore wants to have some sort of effect after the summer. I want to make it clear today why the cabinet has chosen an emergency law instead of using current laws and regulations, and whether it is true that due to the emergency law, there is still something of a separate status for this group of Ukrainian displaced persons and how they relate to others. Finally, I have a number of individual points, such as a look at the future, cooperation in the EU and how we can solve a number of practical problems for Ukrainian refugees. And now, Mr President, I would like to keep a story similar to Mrs Kröger's. For I too would like to hear from the Minister how she responds to the points made by Professor Slingenberg. She indicates that if you look very closely, you can see that it is not just about the sudden influx, but also about a number of existing structural problems. In 2004, when implementing the European Temporary Protection Directive, the Netherlands chose not to create a separate residence status for persons seeking temporary protection, unlike other EU countries. A number of other EU countries have done so. They should then be treated as asylum seekers. One consequence is that this group should be taken in by the COA. During the implementation, it was explicitly intended that in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons the COA would be responsible for the reception. The fact that it cannot do so now is due to the combination of a sudden unforeseen arrival of a high number of refugees from Ukraine and long-standing structural problems, not the mere fact of mass influx. But if that is the cause, incidental influx plus structural problems, why is a distinction made? I hope the Minister can make that clear. Mr. Chairman. By creating this temporary emergency law you create a new category of recipients to which new rules, rights, obligations and consultation structures apply. Would it no longer have been possible to make the most of the current rules? With Mrs Kröger, I would therefore like to refer to what Mr Grütters van het Radboud said: adjust, for example, the Housing Act, which obliges municipalities to create more reception capacity structurally by means of a six-monthly assignment. Wouldn't this have been quicker and made less use of the capacity of municipalities? Can the Minister explain why they have not chosen to do so? Mr. Chairman. This therefore leads to a separate status. I have two questions about this particular status. A number of third-country nationals have also arrived with Ukrainian displaced persons: people who are not Ukrainian, but who worked or studied in Ukraine. Why did we choose to bring this group under the Temporary Protection Directive? The second. There was also a group of Ukrainians who lived or worked in the Netherlands. Again, this group has been chosen to be placed under the protection of that Directive. I do not think they are entirely in line with the reason why the emergency law was invoked, but perhaps I am wrong about that. Mr. Chairman. On the entry into force of the law, the cabinet indicated in the letter of 30 March that the legal task of the mayors is not at present accompanied by the activation of further emergency legal powers, such as the claim of buildings. So that's out of the question. When such emergency powers are activated, fundamental rights may also be at stake. The cabinet indicated that this was not proportionate on 30 March. To what extent has the situation remained the same or changed since the end of March? Would the Minister care to comment on that? Mr. Chairman. The reception of displaced persons is not a task of municipalities in the regular situation. Under Article 2 (4) of the WVB, the Government is therefore obliged to terminate Articles 2c and 4b of the WVB as soon as circumstances permit. In this context, I read in the letter that we are working on a country-wide coordinated programmatic approach to the reception of displaced persons from Ukraine. Can the Minister outline what the more structural way of accommodating Ukrainians is going to be? And is the programmed approach also taking into account the already existing housing shortage and the existing situations at reception sites? Mr. Chairman. Of course, not only in the Netherlands has there been enormous pressure from the Ukrainian displaced persons. Many other countries, such as Poland, Hungary and Romania, still have a much larger number of Ukrainian displaced persons. That is why, through the REACT-EU programme, the European Union has made 3.5 billion available for the reception of refugees from Ukraine. To what extent does the Netherlands make use of this, I would like to ask the Minister. My first question. In addition to local authorities, doctors have also set up a project, namely gpvoorvliegeling.nl. Does the Minister know about this project? And how does it intend to promote the support of this project for Ukrainian refugees and make it more findable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u153	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Podt of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine at the end of February, more than 6 million Ukrainians have crossed the border to the EU, more than 6 million people who have had to leave everything behind and still live in great uncertainty. Of those 6 million, more than 60,000 Ukrainians have found their way to the Netherlands. We have been able to arrange with each other, with the municipalities, organisations and a lot of volunteers throughout our country, in a quick and humane way that all these people have been given a place. From here on, I would like to pay a great compliment to everyone who has contributed to this, whether you are Secretary of State or not, I see that you are a municipal official, a host family or a volunteer: thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a law that gives every mayor a legal role in the reception of Ukrainian displaced persons. From the VNG we get the signal that this legal basis is needed. D66 therefore sees the usefulness and necessity of activating this decades-old law. It is important, however, that a heavy instrument such as emergency law be handled with caution, and that we receive a new temporary law as soon as possible, which we can deal with before it comes into force. Can the cabinet reflect on the use of emergency rights? And does it think that with today's knowledge there were other options that weren't exhausted before the Act of Relocation population was activated? As I said, D66 understands the use of the law, but we never want to miss an opportunity to learn. Mr. Chairman. I come to an issue that is still complicated for me, and which has already been discussed a number of times today, namely the distinction between Ukrainian displaced persons and regular asylum seekers. We have often exchanged views on this subject, including in this Chamber. We see different views on how the reception of both groups is legally regulated. D66 has already called for a legal instrument for the reception of regular asylum seekers. As far as my group is concerned, the way in which we have dealt with the present law shows very clearly that it can really work, and that we can do a great deal if we take responsibility together. Together we had realized thousands of places within no time. I hope we realise that thanks to the deployment of almost all municipalities, we have achieved almost 50,000 reception places for Ukrainians, while only one sixth of the municipalities are responsible for the 41,000 places for regular asylum seekers. That is why I ask the Cabinet what lessons are being drawn from the introduction of emergency rights and how they are being taken into account in the development of both the temporary law for the reception of Ukrainians and the legal instrument for the reception of regular asylum seekers. And is it really necessary to set up two separate legal pathways for this? For example, would it not be possible to merge it together, for example by including in the law that comes before regular asylum seekers a provision for dealing with displaced persons covered by the temporary protection directive? Then we immediately created a legal basis for the future. Mr. Chairman. For D66 it is quite simple: a refugee is a refugee, wherever she or he comes from. And before the Secretary of State, or in this case the Minister, starts talking about differences in acceptance, I will say it again: acceptance is not a natural phenomenon. We create that ourselves by having the execution in order. Finally, I would like to consider who will now bear what responsibility. Because in the People's Movement Act, the mayors are responsible. In his interview with De Telegraaf, the State Secretary said that the provinces will be responsible for regular asylum seekers. Is that right? If so, why has it not been chosen to take over the procedure for the reception of Ukrainians for regular asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u155	Are you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u156	I've got another sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u157	Then we will go first to Mrs Kröger, who has an interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u158	I know that we have often talked about the painful, wretched and, as far as we are concerned, unnecessary distinction between Ukrainians and other people who are entitled to care. The argument was always: there was need, we needed emergency rights and we had to do so. Now the situation is different. The situation around Ukrainians is relatively controlled, while in the asylum shelter everything is completely out of control. Does Mrs Podt agree with me that we should at least ask the cabinet to ensure that new legislation applies to both groups, not one much faster and the other much slower? As a result, one group would have to wait a little longer for legislation and the other group would soon be getting some kind of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u159	I was listening very carefully to what Mrs Kröger said. I think we're in agreement on the goal anyway. So I also think I can say yes to her last question, which was actually about the question of making sure that this goes straight. Actually, I agree with her. I do not think that one group should wait much longer than the other group, or just not at all anymore. I don't know if I totally agree with her. That is why I ask the open question to the cabinet whether you should merge it. I certainly see advantages in that. I do not know exactly whether that is the legal and practical way forward. They are two different groups, for which other things also apply. In the end, I am concerned with the objective of ensuring that both groups are properly housed. I think we can see that this is not the case at the moment, but I think that is why it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u160	We're gonna listen to the rest of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u161	This is actually a bit of a tail of what I said before the switch with Mrs Kröger. It feels a bit like we're going to reinvent the wheel for regular asylum seekers, while the reception of Ukrainian refugees actually got off the ground very quickly. Mr President, I will conclude. As has been said, D66 considers it important that we handle the emergency right with caution. But my group understands its commitment. Let us ensure that, with the forthcoming legislative pathways, we can create a stable legal basis for all those involved to know where they stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u162	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been in a state of permanent, chronic crisis for a number of years. We are bumping from crisis to crisis to crisis, from climate crisis to corona crisis to nitrogen crisis to asylum crisis. One crisis is not over yet, or the next crisis is reappearing. Never is there a day without a crisis. If one crisis has just lost momentum, then the focus will be on the other crisis, but one day without crisis has not been given us for years. These so-called crises have a few things in common. Above all, we all have to be very, very scared. We must all feel very guilty. And we all need to radically change our entire way of life to cope with that crisis. At the bottom of the line, the outcome is almost always that ordinary citizens have to pay more, lose freedoms and be restricted in their fundamental rights. The elite, on the other hand, are getting more and more money, more power and, above all, more control thanks to all these crises. More and more control over all aspects of life. Control what we eat. Control of where we work, how we undertake, where and with whom we may agree, what requirements we must meet for social life, how and with which we must pay. Control of our property, of the soil we own, of the energy we use, of what our children may and may not learn in school, even of what toxins we should inject into our bodies. But don't you dare warn us that we are moving towards a totalitarian control state. In fact, anyone who has any kind of criticism of the government, who openly doubts the good intentions of the State, is dismissed as a conspiracy thinker. Those who doubt the usefulness and need of all these restrictions of freedom would deny science. Anyone who wonders if there is a crisis at all is soon a wappie, a climate denier, a nitrogen denier, a racist, but above all very selfish, a bad person. You have to and will join the fear propaganda, join the narrative, join the lies, or else politics and the media will make you excluded by society, and lose your social life or even your job. Never washed a good crisis. A well-known statement that has been cited for decades to express that crises are often abused by the incumbent power to push through unpopular policies. But what we've seen in recent years goes even further. If there is no appropriate crisis to abuse, then a crisis will be created. The crisis that led to the proposal we are discussing today has also been clearly created. There are so many people from other countries coming to the Netherlands that we simply no longer have a place to take them. A few decades ago you could still disagree, but now no one can deny that the Netherlands is full. That is why the cabinet has declared the state of crisis. This immigration crisis is being pretended to be entirely due to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. That is, of course, demonstrably incorrect. This massive immigration has been going on for decades and has accelerated in recent years. Our population is growing explosively, purely and solely as a result of mass immigration. In 1990, there were less than 15 million people living in the Netherlands. By now, there are more than 17.4 million. According to CBS forecasts, a further 1 million people will be added in the next ten years and our population will grow to 23.8 million in the next few decades in the year 2070. 23.8 million people on that tiny piece of earth! All due to mass immigration. Without immigration, there would be no population growth at all. And no, this mass immigration is not a natural phenomenon that we have no influence on. It is a political choice to let millions of people from other countries into the Netherlands. A political choice that fits perfectly within the globalist agenda which should ultimately lead to a new social and political order in which national states' decision-making powers disappear and political and economic decisions are taken by a world government. After all, a world government can only be successful if there are no national states, no national borders, and no more national peoples. Our national culture, our national traditions, our common history, our common language, our mutual solidarity, everything must be destroyed, and the agenda for repopulation contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u164	You are dropping a significant silence, because there is an interruption for you from Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u165	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I was wondering. Of course, we know from the Forum for Democracy that they often have stories of this kind. What the hell does this have to do with the law we're treating today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u166	We are discussing today the Continuation Act for Articles 2c and 4 of the Relocation Population Act. The introduction of these provisions has resulted in us no longer having a place in the Netherlands to accommodate people from Ukraine. I believe that the Democracy Forum is indeed different from all the other parties by not staring blindly at a legislative proposal that is now being discussed, but also looking at the outcome of a legislative proposal. What has gotten us into this situation? What is the point and the need of the measures? How can we put an end to the asylum crisis, which has now been declared by the cabinet? Therefore, these introductory remarks are extremely relevant. I come to the specific proposal that we are debating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u167	We look forward to that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u168	It is not so strange, it is obvious that this explosive population growth as a result of mass immigration leads to major problems. It disrupts everything: our care, our education, our labour market and, of course, the housing market. There's simply no place to catch all these people. In any case, it is not, and it appears, without seriously restricting the rights and freedoms of the people who already live in the Netherlands. That is why we are discussing today the use of an emergency law to deal with this immigration crisis. In order to enable the mass arrival of tens of thousands of Ukrainians to the Netherlands, the government has found it necessary to pull the Relocation Act out of the closet, an emergency law from 1952, which has never been used before in my knowledge. A very far-reaching emergency law, which allows far-reaching violations of our most fundamental fundamental rights. The People's Movement Act makes it possible, in extreme cases, for property owners to be obliged to make a space in their homes available to foreigners and even to maintain these foreigners. That is stated in Article 7, first paragraph, of the Relocation Population Act. Under paragraph 2, it means that foreigners must be housed in an area heated, illuminated and equipped with furniture. According to this provision, "maintenances" shall include the provision of food and drink. Fortunately, it is not yet the case, but if the government continues its all-destructive immigration policy, it is only a matter of time before we are obliged to take up foreigners in our own home and cook for them as well. Is the government prepared to investigate how many Dutch people are actually waiting for this? But it goes even further. If it were necessary for security or for the maintenance of social life, the Minister could require that some of the population be relocated. Next, the mayor, and I quote from Article 6: 'for each transport of the population to be carried out, one or more transport managers who are responsible for maintaining order in transport and who are able to give orders for that purpose'. It was just about when Mr Markuszower was speaking. He mentioned some of these far-reaching powers from the People's Movement Act. It is true that this is not the case at all at the moment. But the government is looking ahead. The government itself states in the explanatory statement to the decision that the use of these emergency measures is not yet necessary, but that, if circumstances change, that will be weighed again. We hear here in the Chamber on the conveyor belt that people have all sorts of chills on their backs or that people get a nasty taste of something in their mouths. If you see what policy is being pursued here and where it will inevitably lead if immigration policy is not changed drastically, then I am also shivering. Mr Markuszower said here earlier today the word'scare', which you, President, were not allowed to say. I checked the dictionary. The word "scare" means nothing more than annoying, annoying or giving a light sense of fear. In fact, "scare" is still very carefully expressed. Even I'd rather choose the word "tirannical."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u169	Mr Van Meijeren, I would remind you that I have not corrected Mr Markuszower to the word "scare" when it comes to policy, but to a person. That's the difference. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u170	Well, Mr. Markuszower mentioned a post, not the person. He called the ministers. They carry out the policy. They behave in my words in a tyrannical manner. If Mr Markuszower finds the word "scarce" more appropriate, then that is his right. The fact that he is deprived of the floor is a low point in parliamentary history.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u171	Well, that's good to know once you're in this chair. Then we know we can do what we want. But it's not that far. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u172	That Relocation Act population, which the government has now pulled out of the closet, dates from 1952. I've been calling it a while. That law was created at the time in the event of absolute emergencies, such as when war breaks out or a dike breaks out in the Netherlands. In such cases of absolute need, there is something to be said that Dutch people can be obliged to help other Dutch people. In fact, I do not think that Dutch people should even be obliged in such circumstances, because they only want to help their fellow countrymen in need and will show solidarity. However, as previous speakers have pointed out, there is currently no emergency situation that justifies the use of state emergency law. The Council of State also notes in its opinion that it is completely unclear why, in the current circumstances, state emergency law should be used, because it must be used with great restraint. Add to that that state emergency law must always be interpreted restrictively. However, the government does not care about this criticism, is rushing on and thinks that it is completely untouchable. The ease with which this government resorts to emergency measures, which are increasingly restricting our fundamental rights and freedoms, is not part of a democratic system. This government must stop creating and using crises to attract even more power and control, for as long as this government and its globalist clients are not stopped, there is only one crisis and that is a fundamental systemic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u173	Thank you very much. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u174	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the first term of office of the Minister for Justice and Security. I'd be happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the end of February we were confronted with the Russian invasion of Ukraine. As a result, a large number of Ukrainians have fled Russian violence. There is a large movement of people to several European countries, including our country. The Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers is legally the appropriate organisation to provide for the reception of asylum seekers and thus of displaced persons in our country. However, the sudden and very high influx of displaced persons from Ukraine to the Netherlands could not be absorbed within the regular structures. It has been clear and confirmed again in the last few weeks. This task therefore had to be effectively and legally invested elsewhere. On April 1st of this year, therefore, Articles 2c and 4 of the Movements Act were activated. Since that date, mayors have been legally responsible for the reception of displaced persons from Ukraine. The state emergency right in effect is limited to investing this task with the mayors and to giving rules on the performance of this legal task. Therefore, no other emergency provisions or powers have been activated. There is therefore no situation in which the use of buildings can be claimed. The activation of such far-reaching emergency powers is not necessary at the moment and therefore not proportionate. In two cases, there is no need to invest the reception task with mayors: firstly, if the COA can provide for the reception of displaced persons from Ukraine and secondly, if the displaced persons from Ukraine can return home and no longer need reception in the Netherlands. Both cases do not seem to be on the agenda for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u176	One moment. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u177	The Minister uses two words at two moments. One time that is: at the moment there is no need to activate those articles, for example to expropriate property or to relocate populations or to take away people's attic space and put Ukrainians or other refugees there. "At the moment" she uses and another word of equal effect. Can the Minister here promise that this will never happen? No matter how many refugees come to the Netherlands, the cabinet will not activate emergency legislation that allows for the taking of property from citizens, from Dutch people, or to claim attics or to claim vacant homes from citizens, so that refugees can be housed in those places.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u178	I can certainly rule out the fact that we will be making progress in the attic of people at home, of citizens, in order to have to put people there. Further, what we do now and what laws now lie ahead... And if there were any other emergency legislation needed, we'd come back to the Chamber first. I shall come back to that in detail, because a lot of questions have been asked about it. And I understand that, too. But Mr Markuszower was indeed talking about examples in which attic rooms were forced to be taken from people at home. That's not gonna happen. And I'll be right back to the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u179	Let's take the scenario that 1 or 2 million Ukrainians want to come to the Netherlands tomorrow. Then how is the Minister gonna take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u180	I'll come back to all sorts of scenarios later. I do notice two things, of which it is good to name them in the course of this interruption. On the one hand, thousands and thousands of Dutch people have said from the beginning of the war to now: I am making my home available. Then it's a room, a floor or whatever. That too is nice to name and embrace, because that is how we Dutch are. At the same time, although I know a lot about how many people are at the door, we are not going to say 'your home, your attic, is being seized by the cabinet'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u181	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u182	I'll come back to the rest later. I shall certainly come back to the scenarios, because questions have rightly been asked about them. But if you would give me an opportunity to answer it properly, we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u183	Then maybe we'll see Mr. Markuszower again. Then rounding off, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u184	Maybe I'll be right back, but I'll finish at this point. Then why does the Minister always say that word "at the moment" in the written reply? "There's no need to do that right now." "There's no need for that right now." "That's not necessary for the time being." Why are you always so restrictive... Why do you keep saying you're gonna build in that escape?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u185	Now Mr Markuszower raises the question about Rule 7, which I would like to stress once again. We have indicated in previous debates and in letters to your Chamber, also in response to motions, that moving buildings could be an option in itself. They can also be vacant buildings of companies or other types of buildings. I will explain later, at the request of several Members of Parliament, that we will always return to the Chamber first. And we have shared in detail in previous substantive debates what we are all doing. I shall mention a number of elements here again; although it is not necessarily the subject of this debate, I understand that it is being asked to avoid that moment, to be in favour of it or to exclude it as much as possible. It is not possible to exclude 100%, but what was in the speeches of some MPs and the people could belong, in the vein of "you must give up your guest room": that is really not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u186	Please continue with your speech. Excuse me, with your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u187	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I was just saying that there could be two options where we say that the mayor's job is no longer necessary. That's if the COA could handle it or if the situation in Ukraine changes something we, I think, all of us here really hope so that Ukrainians can get back to their safe house. Both options are not currently feasible in the short term. That means we're standing here right now, and I'm about to tell you how we're going to move from emergency to temporary law. With the Chamber, the Cabinet considers that the implementation of emergency rights can only be of temporary duration. It must be turned back as quickly as possible to a situation in which we can provide for shelter without an emergency right. As I have just said, I am therefore working on a temporary law that will extend this task to municipalities. I will come back to that later, because there have been questions about it. With the entry into force of the temporary law, state emergency law will be terminated immediately. This temporary law is now being worked hard. You understand, of course, we also like to do this with the VNG, all the other mayors and the Security Council. We also want to do this as soon as possible, but it really needs to be done carefully and in consultation with fellow governments. It'll take some time. I will submit the bill to the House of Representatives as soon as possible after the summer recess, so that state emergency law can also be terminated immediately. This was a question from GroenLinks; I will come back to it later. Mr. Chairman. I've had a lot of questions. I've arranged it. The first set is about the choice and functioning and scope of the law we are talking about today. That's also the most extensive part. Then I have some questions about the temporary law. Of course, we are going to talk about this in detail, but I am also going to say a few things about it now. Then there is the practice, the reception capacity, the finances and the regular asylum seekers. Finally, I have the folder with other very important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u188	Thank you. Clear. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u189	Then I'll start with the first part. That is also the most extensive, because that is about the law. Mr Markuszower asked whether the implementation of the emergency right would not go too far. We have already discussed it in the interruption; he also had other examples such as code of conduct and you name it. I will not read it all now, because we have already dealt with this, but nothing has been activated more than Articles 2c and 4. So the whole Act relocation population hasn't been activated. We have only invested the task with the mayors to take care of the reception of displaced persons. Nothing more. It is therefore not the case that areas are cleared, rules of conduct are imposed or attics are advanced. None of that is at issue and there is no reason to do so. What we are discussing today is only the task of the mayors to deal with the reception of displaced persons from Ukraine. Then Mr Markuszower asks whether emergency rights will be applied to regular asylum seekers. Whatever side of the debate you are on, we all see that the problems in Ter Apel are really very big and need to be solved. That is something other than the use of state emergency law. State emergency law can only be used if there are exceptional circumstances. That's a legal concept. In an emergency state, exceptional circumstances do not arise when it comes to structural problems, such as the bottlenecks in the regular reception of foreigners. They should be dealt with regularly, if necessary by amending legislation. They're working hard on that. I know that you have had a debate on this this afternoon and that you regularly talk about it with my colleague, the Secretary of State for JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u190	It may not be emergency legislation, but is the Secretary of State still working on legislation that makes it possible to impose reception of asylum seekers on municipalities? The Minister may have referred to that side by side. Now municipalities cannot be forced by the Empire to accept asylum seekers. I believe that the cabinet, the State Secretary working under this minister, is working on coercive legislation that will make it possible for mayors to be forced to take asylum seekers into their municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u191	I'm just being a little careful. I also chaired that debate this afternoon. That took three hours. Several MPs were present. You weren't there. I don't need to do that debate about this. Seems like a waste of time for everyone who was there. But the Minister can answer briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u192	Yes, I can respond to that briefly. At the moment, the Secretary of State is indeed exploring the possibilities for a reception function of co-governments and for a binding legal instrument. That has also been communicated before and there have been many debates on it. So that's something completely different from state emergency law. This is also being prepared through regular processes, and that will also come to your Chamber. Of course, anything can be found here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u193	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u194	Mrs Bikker asked: can you confirm that the scope of this law is limited to a task for mayors?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u195	I have something on this point too, because this has of course always been the analysis of the cabinet: only for the Ukrainians did we do this state emergency right, because that was an unforeseen large group; that was not a regular bottleneck. I am curious to see how the Minister looks at the analysis of Professor Slingenberg, who says: no, the arrival of a large group of Ukrainians has put pressure on all reception of people who are entitled to care, including those of regular asylum seekers. So you might as well have applied state emergency law to the care of people who are entitled to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u196	I do not think anyone is saying that these two things do not affect each other at all in practice. Of course they're not; they're touching each other. But "state-of-the-art law" is really a legal concept. This is not suitable for problems of a structural nature. We can actually see what the Council of State is saying about what we are presenting today. So I think we should tear that apart. In any case, we are also proposing this in order to keep that separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u197	I am well aware that the cabinet wants to keep it apart and that that is the case, but that is not my question. Legally speaking, it is a question of whether the fact that many Ukrainians came has created a situation in which emergency rights apply to people who are entitled to care. It has been chosen to apply only to Ukrainians and not to all people entitled to care. That's a political choice. That is possible, but call it... Does the Minister agree with me that this is a political choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u198	Not really. Not really, because it has a legal basis. It also has to do with the fact that the regular body that should be responsible for this, the COA, could not and still cannot handle it at the time. We're talking about almost 70,000 people who have added extra in the last few months. That's the basis for what we're putting here. This is also supported by the various opinions we have received. So I do not agree that a political balance has been made which can give rise to the suggestion that one group is considered more relevant than the other. That's not going to happen. It's about legal arguments. I think that, and that is why I am standing here saying that what we are now proposing is the most pure way to regulate both as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u199	Finalizing, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u200	Now the Minister says that the COA couldn't handle those 60,000 extra people, but the fact that those 60,000 or 50,000 people have arrived does have an impact on whether or not the COA can handle its normal task. The fact that there has been an emergency situation due to the arrival of Ukrainians was the reason to activate state emergency law. Then it is a political choice whether you allow that to apply to all people who are entitled to shelter or only to Ukrainians. I have not seen a purely legal argument, I have also requested all the underlying documents that feed that analysis. Then that's just a political choice. This does not mean, for the rest, that one group is more important than another, but it is at least a political choice to make that separation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u201	That divorce was necessary because we wanted to give the mayors that formal task. We should have put everyone under state emergency law, so I understand that the suggestion is from GroenLinks, and we should remove that task from the COA and leave it with the mayors. I don't think that would have been workable either. This is also about how you formally arrange it to ensure that the person who gets that legal task can then act accordingly. As far as the COA and the asylum system are concerned, I know that you have discussed this at length. That is separate from legislation, but we did do so because, in my view, we both agree that we do not want to see the images we see there in Ter Apel. We don't want people sleeping outside in tents and you name it. We believe that there really must be a breakthrough there and we have a crisis structure for that, but that is something other than state emergency law. So I'm afraid we're not gonna agree on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u202	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u203	Mrs Bikker asked if I can confirm that the scope of this law is limited to a task for mayors. Yeah, absolutely. I also pointed out to Mr Markuszower that on 1 April only Articles 2c and 4 of the Relocation Act were activated. That means that the mayors have been given that legal task for the care and that we have been able to add rules to that, such as "how do you direct your living money" and that kind of elements. Mrs Bikker further asked in what situation is there being considered for the recovery of buildings. Will the Chamber be involved? As has just been said, there is currently no reason to consider progressing in the use of buildings. I don't want to repeat much. Let me just say for the record that progress in housing is not a matter for the cabinet. That's never gonna happen. It seems to me very good to meet with the Chamber here today and to say from my role that, should circumstances change so that we enter a completely different debate, the Chamber will be informed in advance. Then we'll talk about this clearly. There are all these escalation steps and models and everything I have heard several Members of Parliament about. Mrs Bikker also asked whether it could not have stayed with the COA; had there been no other methods, which are less far-reaching than the emergency right? Let me say again: if that had been the case, we would have done so. There is no one, not even within my ministry, asking: fine, when can we get these laws out of the closet? But it is really impossible, given this sudden and unprecedented influx of displaced persons, to provide the necessary reception with the existing structures. A number of Members, like Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Bikker, asked: what would go wrong if the law on claims were to go off the table today? Because that is what the Chamber can decide. Then it hasn't been activated, so what then? In that case, the government is obliged to terminate the emergency right. Without the right of emergency, each municipality determines for itself or, if so, how it provides for the reception of displaced persons. Each municipality then decides for itself with all those Ukrainians who still enter our country. There is no guarantee that all the municipalities that now provide care will continue to do so without a legal basis. They can also offer a different level of reception that does not comply with the rules applicable from Europe for the reception of displaced persons. We'll get in a lot of trouble at that stage. The reception can therefore vary enormously from one municipality to another. I can easily imagine that my fellow Secretary of State is here in the Chamber. The COA is also legally responsible for the reception of displaced persons. I say to you, and that is also shared earlier: the COA is simply not in a position to do so now. If you ask me, and you do, there will be an acute problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u204	Is this the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u205	Yeah, from this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u206	Okay. Then I'm going to give Mr. Markuszower the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u207	This may be a reason to go to the core of why this cabinet wanted to activate such a totalitarian law. The Minister actually outlines scenarios of what could go wrong, but there is no guarantee that it would have gone wrong. The question then is whether it is proportional, especially if you think of the following. On the one hand, the VVD shouts loudly in the newspaper that the borders should be closed. Then you have a minister and a secretary of state, both of the VVD house, who activate emergency legislation so that the borders don't have to be closed and so that all the values that a liberal party should stand for are trampled on. How can the Minister sell to himself and to the Netherlands that she has come up with such a far-reaching law without really having to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u208	Maybe back to how this started. This started with Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine, bombing people, our neighbors, just a little further away in Europe. Suddenly, their whole lives turned upside down. They had to run. We've all seen that footage. I have seen thousands and thousands of Dutch people immediately surrender to say: I want to take care of shelter and I want to do everything I can. That's how this started. In the meantime, we already have almost 70,000 people and we all see that, unfortunately, after all these months, the situation in Ukraine is not getting any better. We see a lot of people in the countries around them being taken care of and we do not know how long that will last. That means you're choosing as a country. Am I a good neighbor in Europe? Is this the region and are we catching people? Or am I not? If you say you are quite honest: I have also heard Mr Markuszower's input; he was sharp, but I think I also know him as someone who stands for people who are really fleeing war, then I think we should be there too. Then I really think you can't take the chance that we'd settle that in this country without any foundation. In addition, we have been able to set all this up, even for all these municipalities, to arrange for the finances to be put in order and for the municipalities to be helped. It's not like we're talking about the fence in municipalities by law and then say, "Find out." Certainly not; we do this together and legislation helps. Maybe I can add two more things to that. I do not think Mr Markuszower means 'the borders close' for Ukrainians fleeing. At that point, that was what we stood for. So I'm okay with bringing in everyone and everything, but that's what today is about. And finally about "totalitarian law": this is a law from our own package, which we ourselves have. We are a democratic rule of law; I think we are very cherishing and defending them where necessary. The Chamber could whistle us back from the first moment we sent the letter stating that we had put this into effect. We're in for a debate here. This is anything but totalitarian. You do not have to agree, but let us cherish our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u209	Thank you for the answer, but it must be shorter, I say for the follow-up. I call Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u210	Thank you for the answer, but the PVV also said that there should be limited space for Ukrainian women and children. But that space isn't fixed. At the same time as the PVV has said so, the borders have been opened wide open to 1,000 asylum seekers per week. These beds could, of course, have been used temporarily and in a limited way for Ukrainian women and children, who have been taken care of for the most part in Ukraine's neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u211	Mr. Markuszower, no more whole speeches; just ask a question if you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u212	The essence of my question was, and it has not been answered, how could it be that under a minister of the VVD house, of the liberal house, this emergency law, which was intended to protect the Dutch people, was used at that time. That was not necessary at the time and therefore not proportionate and, moreover, a law was taken that was not intended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u213	I'll get to it later. The law states in the Explanatory Memorandum that it can also be used for this purpose. I am pleased that the Council of State has also underlined this. This Minister of VVD House, who once had to flee oppression, also knows how important it is from her work as Minister of JenV, but also from her own past that you offer a safe haven to those who need it. At a time when a country is being brutally attacked not so far from us, I would not take the chance that the municipalities will arrange for it to be there. That has really required a legal basis, and we have it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u214	I want to see Mrs. Van der Plas. Oh, would you like to go on?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u215	The last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u216	Well, really short, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u217	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to make that space. She should have got the legislation in order, but it is and remains unacceptable that a scenario has been gambled... that is actually the easiest route: we take emergency legislation, we activate it for a while and then we can get started. If the Minister and the Cabinet had really been so concerned, perhaps the Minister and the Cabinet would have had to think a little longer and perhaps come up with other arrangements. But the use of this emergency legislation is a serious violation of the powers of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u218	We're standing right here in the room. It's up to the Chamber to decide if she thinks this is a good idea or not. We have, of course, asked for opinions everywhere, as is the case with the Council of State, as it should be. Let me also say to our lawyers at my ministry that there is no one who thinks this is an easy way to go. We saw this as the only option. So often we haven't seen one of our neighbors end up in a brutal war and then you have to be ready for people. Luckily, it's not like this is something we go through every few years. So we realize that this is a unique moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u219	Mrs. Van der Plas. I would also point out to the other Members that there is no need to interrupt in three. You're known for your sneaky shortness. So I challenge you. Oh, wait, shall I turn on your microphone? That might help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u220	Yeah, that sure helps. We can make emergency laws for anything. We made an emergency bill for curfew, for corona. An emergency law was made very quickly. Why can't we make an emergency bill to make sure that housing is pulled smoothly? You can do that, too. You can also make an emergency law for this, so that you do not have to comply with the current rules because of the nitrogen policy. You're just making an emergency bill so you can pull the construction fast. My question is therefore why we do not do that, because it is really about building to accommodate people, whether or not we have a home. Then why isn't there a bet on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u221	My colleague for Housing, Minister De Jonge, is busy looking at how he can speed that up. I have some answers about this later, but I would ask Mrs van der Plas to discuss it with him, because he is working on it. Today it is about state emergency law, which is in our regular legislative package as an option for such a thing. That was really about acute, quick reception. And at that point, we didn't know how long this would take, and actually, it still does today. So it also has to do with good care for now, and not with people who have to live in houses. As this lasts longer I have had some questions about this and I'll get to that.Of course, that can be another story. Then my colleague, Minister De Jonge, I really think it's a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u222	That was also my question in my contribution: what options did all go through before the cabinet came to this decision? To be honest, I do not have the idea that all the other options have really been looked at before a rigorous measure such as this emergency law is taken. I would like to have more clarification about this, because with the current unrest in society, which we all have not escaped, this is not just about farmers who are angry; in society itself there is also a lot of slumbering in society, I honestly wonder how proportional and sensible it is to come up with such a law on top of everything that is actually going on. Is this consideration also made: do we take the risk and is this proportionate enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u223	Sure, absolutely. It is also our job to do that, and not only to prepare it thoroughly, but also to have the answer when we are standing here. Four months ago seems like a long time ago, but it's not. By the way, people are still coming into our country from Ukraine. Then we really saw people fleeing on a large scale. There's no other way. The only other option at that time is that the COA, as the COA does, provides displaced persons and asylum seekers. But I can really say that it wasn't an option for the COA to receive 70,000 extra people in four months. By the way, we didn't know how many they were going to be; we still don't know that today. So I'm convinced we had to switch quickly. We also saw the same thing in the various insertions that many municipalities said: we now have places here. But also because we didn't know how much it would take, we couldn't take that chance. So we've definitely had a look. We have had opinions, for example from the Council of State, in which they said: we understand why you choose to do so, and it is also appropriate for that. I think that we have been confirmed in those considerations by people who have a good sense of that too. And they say, yes, this was the best option at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u224	Thank you. Mrs. Van der Plas, in conclusion, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u225	Yeah, still rounding up. In the first part of the Minister's answer, she answered my question: what is the result of that and how bad is it? I heard what might happen if we deactivated that law, but I didn't hear how bad that would be. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to say two more sentences. For example, in Budel, where I was last week, the municipality says exactly: let it be up to us and do not impose it from above, because we know better what is going on here and how it works on society. So I do not know whether these municipalities are all waiting to do so under duress.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u226	I think there are two things that are mixed up here, because with this law we say to the municipalities: you have the legal authority and task to do so. Then we'll check with the municipalities how they do it. If I am not mistaken, Mrs Van der Plas is also talking about the other legislation, for the regular asylum flow, which my colleague, the Secretary of State for JenV, is preparing. But that's later this year. Those things don't get mixed up like this. With this law, we give the municipalities the responsibility. At the time it was due to expire last night, that would mean that task goes back to the COA. So you're going to run it nationwide, from here, centrally. Apart from the fact that the COA can't do that, you take it away from the municipalities. So I think it would be wise to keep these two things separate, even though I understand very well that they are mixed up in practice and in the municipalities. Maybe I can add one thing to that. I understand very well that Mrs van der Plas says that our country is not in the most peaceful time. I couldn't agree more. This is, in my opinion, one of the subjects on which there was and still is consensus, even if you look at the support of the Dutch people, because we do offer a safe haven to the Ukrainians fleeing. The only way to do this properly was by giving these municipalities the task. That's all we've done with these two articles of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u227	I just want to make sure that I understand the Minister correctly. She says, if we hadn't invoked this emergency law, we wouldn't have been able to realize as many places as we've done now? Is that analysis correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u228	What's absolutely true is that I don't know. Because then you would have left it to all the congregations willingly. Then I don't know what the last four months would have looked like. In doing so, the COA would have had the legal task and we would not have complied with the European rules on what to offer; for example, take the rules on living money and the like. There is also a certain standard............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So you would have had great differences per municipality, from zero reception to shelter in a very different way to different levels. I don't know. You couldn't have taken that risk at first and now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u229	Is that the answer to the question I raised in my own contribution? There is a professor at Radboud University who indicated: you could have used the Housing Act, in which you immediately say that the assignment to municipalities is increased. Then you have no distinction between status holders and people from Ukraine. Do I understand why the Minister says: yes, but from Europe the question has been for us to guarantee the rights of Ukrainian displaced persons in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u230	Almost. Here, too, there are two things that are mixed up. Displaced people from Ukraine do not have the same status as status holders. Status holders have now heard that they are allowed to stay here, so they are now mostly waiting to be allowed to flow out into a home. That is another challenge; let me put it this way. You can compare this with other asylum seekers, where Ukrainians are not currently characterised as asylum seekers. It is true: it is rules from Europe that now apply to the reception of displaced persons. I would like to say one more time: you should have left that task entirely at the COA and that is really not wise at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u231	Mr. Stoffer. I'm really gonna try to keep the interruptions in half from now on, because we're still at the first block and we've got four more to go. But since it surprises you, I'll give you three more and not halfway through the game change the rules. But from the next row, they're gonna change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u232	Mr President, if you say in two, I will do it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u233	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u234	As wax in your hands. What really remains with me, and I hope the Minister will answer, is the following. If you see this Act of relocation population and if you read the explanatory statement, you can see that it is really aimed at the situation in which its own population, the Dutch population, must be relocated because there is an acute situation, an emergency situation because of war, really here at our borders, or if a dike breaks through, such as in 1993 and 1995. I think it's meant for that kind of situation. There was no shortage of law here in my opinion at that time. No one was outside. So I'm still left with the point: why was this law chosen at that time, and not let's just call it the alternative, because I don't have the impression that the cabinet had any wrong moves or intentions for a quick, temporary law at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u235	To start immediately with the latter: the state emergency law like that precedent, as it is in our regular package, it is an emergency right, but it is one of the possibilities for this was already there and is suitable for this. I think I'm repeating myself, but I'm gonna say it anyway. This was indeed an explicit question from Mr Stoffer. I'd have gotten there in a minute, but I brought it up. The emergency right in the People's Movement Act is also intended for this situation. So it would have been crazy to make a separate temporary law that you needed at the time. Because I do not think that, and I really am with Mr Stoffer, that at the moment Russia invades Ukraine and we have no idea what is happening to us and what that is going to look like, we cannot say at the beginning of that: we see that there are some beds available, so it will run loose. If I had done so and then more people had come in, that is also the case, because there are seven times more people at the moment than I think the Chamber would have asked quite different questions. I guess the SGP wouldn't have let me get away with that gamble. The People's Movement Act was intended not only for a flood disaster, a war or another disaster, but also for the situation of a refugee stream. I quote from the explanation given by the legislator: 'There may be circumstances, such as when crossing our borders of large groups of refugees, where it is desirable to make use of the arrangements laid down in the draft.' It is therefore also specifically intended for this type of case. I think that, if I may put it that way, we should be lucky not to have had to take it out of the closet so far. But what we see in Ukraine four months ago we were rather loud about that; I hope today is still so intense, so shocking and so close that this... The law was already there. I would like to comment on the questions put by Mr Eerdmans, for example, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u236	We're about to. Take it with you, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u237	Just a little comment. I do think that is also in the right of emergency, and that it should be put back into effect as soon as possible. I'll come back later to the question of how to do that. I am therefore convinced that it was necessary quickly, but I am also convinced that it must be withdrawn quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u238	Rounding off, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u239	Yeah, rounding it up. I'll still keep it in two. I am actually looking forward to the Minister's further intervention. We'll probably come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u240	Sure. We're about to listen to that, but first Mr. Van Haga has another interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u241	What strikes me is that most of my colleagues ask why an alternative has not been chosen. Mr Stoffer asked for that and pointed out a quick, temporary law. Mrs Van der Plas also asked: why hasn't all kinds of other options been chosen? I asked about that, too. I was talking about empty state buildings, holiday parks, other private property. That would have been an option, too. Why choose the nuclear option of this state emergency law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u242	I think Mr Van Haga is confusing a number of things. First of all, I gave an answer. Secondly, you give the municipalities the opportunity to explore this kind of option within a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u243	Thank you. That sounds pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u244	If you have to organize that nationally, then you are going to move forward, and I know that Mr Van Haga does not mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u245	But it's in line with this law. It's in this law, for God's sake. Okay, it's the articles that haven't been introduced yet, but it's around the corner. I still think it's a nuclear option. I'm surprised that other options aren't being looked at, still. I asked it in my contribution, so I assume the Minister will come back to that in her reply. Maybe one last question: when does this end?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u246	I just came up with that. The question put by Mr Van Haga and Mr Eerdmans before me was indeed: when will the emergency right be revoked? Emergency rights can only be a temporary solution. In fact, the legislator is very clear about this too; that has also been our commitment from day one. I fully share that. It's meant for an emergency. As reported in my letter of 10 June, it is still still necessary to invest the reception task with municipalities longer than expected, because the war is going on and COA is still unable to cope with the current. As long as these conditions are in place, there must be a legal basis to invest this task in municipalities. In another case, you will indeed come out on matters from the Empire and the like, as Mr Van Haga just pointed out. That's why we're working on a proposal for a temporary law. This is now being worked hard, at a rapid rate. We would also like to submit them to your Lower House as soon as possible. By means of a normal legislative procedure, this temporary law will, as should be the case, allow municipalities to take care of displaced persons for a longer period of time. We also shape that law together with municipalities. Then the emergency right will be terminated immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u247	Mrs. Kröger, we'll do it in two. So you're gonna get your answers and you're gonna come back. Mrs. Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u248	I would like to continue with Mr Slootweg's question: why was the Housing Act not chosen? In fact, it already contains an article that regulates that municipalities regulate reception for status holders. An article can simply be added on Ukrainian displaced persons, or on people who benefit from our reception under the temporary directive. Has this option been legally explored at all, and why hasn't it been chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u249	The status of displaced persons has, of course, been examined. Even if it is different from Europe for all European countries, it is more similar to asylum seekers. It is therefore about reception, at the same level as we can offer asylum seekers here. One of the answers is that you don't look at how to catch people like Dutch people who live and live here regularly, or status holders. In this sense, this group is similar to asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u250	That really is not the beginning of an answer to my question. The Housing Act currently regulates the assignment of licence holders. An article may as well be added on a reception mission, i.e. not accommodation, including all the underlying arrangements, which are there just like emergency legislation for the reception of Ukrainian displaced persons. That is another legal instrument. That's not a state emergency right. The Chamber makes it very clear that there is an inconvenience that the cabinet is resorting to emergency law in this situation. So why didn't we opt for an amendment to the Housing Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u251	I understand there's some inconvenience in some parties. I also had a lot of discomfort when I saw the war in Ukraine. But that is an emergency situation, for which we have emergency legislation, which can be put into use immediately. This is also underlined by the Council of State, which also says: you are putting it for the right purpose. I am asked why I do not come up with a temporary law or change the legislation. Then I say, when you weigh everything and consider it, you see that there is already a law that is meant for this purpose. I have even read the explanatory statement that goes with it. It's literally about this. You would have taken the time to change a law when you already had that law at your disposal. It'll take as short as possible. Exactly before this, there is already a temporary law. That's the right way to deal with the tools you have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u252	No, Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u253	But this wasn't an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u254	You'll have a second term. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u255	Let's see. Mr Brekelmans asked: would you undertake to inform the Chamber, should other emergency powers be established? As I said, yes, we'll make sure we get to the Chamber in advance. Mr Van Dijk also asked whether displaced persons would fall back on the COA if the EU terminated temporary protection status. The operation of the Temporary Protection Directive is not required for the functioning of the law as we put it here. On this basis, displaced persons fleeing the conflict in Ukraine are granted temporary protection in the Member States of the European Union and thus in the Netherlands. If this special status were to lapse, there would be no legal consequences for the current implementation of Articles 2c and 4 of the Act as it stands. The Directive is not required for its operation. Mr Stoffer, Mrs Van der Plas and Mrs Podt asked which alternatives were envisaged. I think I've said a lot about that. The COA was and is unable to accommodate 70,000 additional people. On 6 May I sent your Chamber documents exploring the various possibilities. It explains everything. The survey shows that the choice was roughly to activate the available state emergency law or create a new temporary law. Since the People's Movement Act provided a legal basis and exceptional circumstances in exceptional circumstances, this option was also available. The Council of State has now confirmed this applicability of the law. Mr Stoffer asked when and under what conditions coercion is possible. I think that would be a repeat of what I just said. I think he was referring to progress. When it comes to progress, compulsion is really out of the question. No provisions other than 2c and 4 have been activated. I think Mr Stoffer referred to Article 7, but that has not been put into effect. Should that ever change for any reason, we will first return to the House of Representatives, as I promised Mr Brekelmans. Then hopefully we can outline why we are there, but it is not now. I have the question of SGP, GroenLinks, CDA, D66 and other parties why this law is not used for other situations. I try not to repeat too much, but I do want to answer. You have undoubtedly also talked about it in detail this afternoon: the problems in the regular asylum shelter are great and need to be resolved. As has been said, state emergency law cannot be used for structural problems. There's gotta be another way. We have put the crisis structure into effect, but that is independent of legislation. This does not automatically include legislation. Mr Stoffer asked why the Lower House was not consulted in advance before the emergency law was put into effect. The Chamber was informed by several letters before 1 April that the use of the emergency right was being investigated. It is true that emergency powers can be activated by royal decree. That's how it's done. So that's without parliament. It's the legal procedure, because you need to be able to switch quickly. For that there is emergency legislation in an emergency. However, a continuing law must be submitted without delay. That's what really happened here. It goes through the same procedure as an ordinary law. For example, the Council of State is giving its opinion, which we are also discussing today. Your Chamber could have immediately said that it did not want to apply the emergency law after the continued proposal. It would have been shut down immediately. In all these options, even if the right of emergency is the one that allows you to act more quickly, it is settled that Parliament can act very quickly afterwards. Mr Stoffer asked how I looked back on the use of state emergency law in this case. I believe that I have emphasised this in the light of various interruptions. The regular legal frameworks must be followed. In this case, it proved impossible if you look at the situation in which we ended up. That's why it was necessary to activate this law. As far as I'm concerned, that's appropriate. It is also appropriate for me to see how quickly we can get rid of it, because emergency rights are not for a very long time. Mrs van der Plas asked: how is it that we are only now having a debate on state emergency law three months and six days after its use? In the interruption it has already been discussed with each other that this is due to the planning of the House of Representatives. That's not up to me. Mrs Van der Plas also asked why other changes to the People's Movement Act have been introduced in the continuing law. The continuing law is mainly intended so that the Lower House can rule on the use of emergency law. The continuing law is also an ordinary law, so it is possible to propose amendments to a continuous law. This has happened for, for example, Article 12 of the law. That article obliges a new general measure of governance on the compensation of municipalities. That's what it was all about. This is a provision from 1952, which, in our time, would only lead to unnecessary legislation, because we have long secured it in a different way. In this case, it's called the Financial Relationship Act, but it's already there. You'll have legislation that won't do you any good. Article 15 is also amended. That article requires one or more Commissioners to relocate population per province, but those Commissioners are not there at all. They will no longer be necessary in 2022, because we are now doing so through the security regions. So for those parts that no longer apply to our current system, the law has been adapted. Mr Slootweg had the question of why no regular regulation was applied. I've already explained that. The last question in this file is Mr Slootweg's question as to why Ukrainians who were already in the Netherlands before the war are also covered by the regulation. The Council decision taken in response to all of this encourages Member States to extend temporary protection to persons who left Ukraine shortly before 24 February 2022. The cabinet has decided to simply follow this up, because it is a difficult time to determine when exactly what started and when people have started moving, fleeing or looking for security. The date of 7 November 2021 shall correspond to the visa-free period of 90 days. In that sense, it's a technical story. Then I'll be at the next folder. It's about the temporary law, which we're going to talk about extensively. Mr. Brekelmans asked what the scope of the temporary law would be. Is that gonna look like what we're talking about tonight? It is good to emphasise that at the moment the VNG, the Security Council and municipalities are talking about how to implement it so that we can shape it so that it becomes something that they can really move on with. My commitment is that the temporary law will be very closely aligned with the emergency right we are discussing today, so with those articles that we have activated. The temporary law will include a task for municipalities for the reception of displaced persons, exactly what we have done over the last few months with Articles 2c and 4. Furthermore, the law will provide a basis for laying down rules for reception, just as we have now done with Article 4. You can then think of demands such as the level of living money and that kind of elements. We are now fully committed to this. Mr Brekelmans asked why a temporary law was chosen and what reservations there were. There are two aspects. One. I have just said in detail that state emergency law can remain in force as long as the exceptional circumstances which required its activation continue. This means: as long as the war is going on there or as long as the COA can't handle this current. Right now, they're both true. You can see that this is probably not gonna change for a while. For both elements unfortunately, but especially if you look at the war in Ukraine. The cabinet believes that the use of emergency law should only be temporary. That's really the description. We must move as quickly as possible towards a situation in which we can provide shelter outside the right of emergency. That's why we're working on a temporary law. As soon as it is put into effect, the activation of the emergency right shall lapse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u256	An interruption by Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u257	A very brief, clarifying question, because the Minister's answer was clear. She wants to be as close as possible to Article 2c and Article 4. In the debate a number of articles from the People's Movement Act were cited and the doom picture was sketched as if the Cabinet were going to use them. Does the Minister also say that she will not include those articles in that temporary law? The fear that they would ever be deployed would be over with that temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u258	That's right. That's not in the temporary law right now. It's not in the conversations we have with the municipalities either. As promised just now to Mr Brekelmans and other MPs, when the situation changes so much that you should do other business, we return to the Chamber first. That could mean, for example, that you have to amend the temporary law, but that you first come to the Chamber with a story about how and what. That's the procedure. What I have just explained about 2c and 4, state emergency law and why we are here is equally true for the temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u259	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u260	Then Mr Stoffer said that the VNG and the Dutch Society of Mayors are critical about the use of emergency law. He asked whether the Minister could promise that democratic control would be possible again and that municipal councils would not be out of play. The implementation of this law has been based on an existing competence, as mentioned above for this situation. Because this law stipulates that the mayor is competent body, there was no room to make a completely different choice. The mayor will be in the lead. But it wasn't outside the municipalities. The VNG has been intensively spoken to before the emergency right was activated. The temporary law also pays attention to democratic legitimacy. That is why we need to take this time now. It is precisely with the VNG, with the Security Council and with all the municipalities that we should try to achieve a framework that is said to be as broad as possible, and I can explain this very well. As announced in today's letter, an administrative framework has been established. That's what the Secretary of State is working on with all these municipalities. It includes working on a temporary law, which provides for jurisdiction in the mayor's and aldermen's college, with the normal democratic role of the city council. At the moment when we can work with the temporary law and state emergency law lapses, the administrative framework of agreements means that we are going to get much more into a regular process. I think Mr Stoffer was looking for that too. I have just replied to Mrs Kröger on the timetable of the temporary law: as soon as possible. But precisely because of the elements I indicated to Mr Stoffer, namely that we need to fill it in properly, we need this time now. It's being worked on at a very fast rate. It needs to be filed as soon as possible. I hope that the bill can be sent to the House of Representatives as soon as possible after the summer recess. That's the bet. The whole summer is set up to get to that. If anything else happens, we will of course return to the Chamber. For the moment, I have the feeling that we can do that right after the summer. Then I have a question from Mrs Kröger. Actually, it's been treated. It was about the Housing Act. I have indicated that the temporary law is in any case the successor to the emergency right. The emergency right, the legislation available, was specific to this situation. If there are any further questions about the Housing Act and about the future, I am sure Minister De Jonge will be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u261	Then we'll go to the third block, if I've kept up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u262	Yeah, that's the block of practice, reception, capacity, how things are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u263	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u264	Mrs Bikker said: what exactly is being set up for the reception of refugees, for emergency care? She sees a lot of civil society organisations and churches jump up and say: we want to help. She expressed her appreciation and I share it. I very much agree with that. That's very broad in society. Four months ago seems a long time ago, but you saw how the Dutch people, and also from civil society organisations, said: of course we offer a safe haven for Ukrainians who now suddenly have to flee. I think we should be very proud of what we have done in our country. A great deal has been done by municipalities, security regions, NGOs and volunteers to provide shelter for displaced persons. In addition, there are many private initiatives, of which we particularly support those of RefugeeHomeNL. This is a consortium of the Red Cross, Refugee Work, Salvation Army and Takecarebnb, which is financially supported by the Ministry to facilitate and coordinate private care as safely and carefully as possible. RefugeeHomeNL informs, screens, links and guides guest households and displaced persons. Mr Van Dijk said: municipalities are responsible for the reception of displaced persons, but how do they actually do that? They too have to deal with a shortage of building materials, people and finance. The realisation of reception sites requires excessive efforts by municipalities and security regions. We see that this applies in particular to the smaller municipalities. In conjunction with the Security Council, the government continuously identifies the bottlenecks in the reception of displaced persons. There is genuinely intensive cooperation with the security regions to remove the obstacles as far as possible. We also ensure that, after offering a location, it is possible to provide a statement within 72 hours on the coverage of the costs of the reception. The municipalities were right to think that this was very important. They can switch very quickly. Within a very short time they have a reaction immediately. When municipalities encounter other bottlenecks, such as shortage of building materials or humanisation of reception sites, we ensure that we look together to see how we can help. In addition to having a DG Ukraine, which has also been discussed in detail here, we have also established a national reception organisation. It takes stock of the reception facilities and provides them with support from the municipalities. So we facilitate as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u265	Are you almost at the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u266	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u267	Good. We shall now proceed to Mrs Kröger's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u268	Does the Minister recognise that from the perspective of a municipality there is a great need to agree with the Empire at once on reception of Ukrainians, status holders and asylum seekers? What can be done in legislation to meet this need of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u269	I know that for a fact. I can see that, too. For Ukraine, we had engaged the crisis structure. It's switched off now, but now we're talking about asylum. Actually, those are the same people who sit at the table and report it. Wherever possible, we do that. We also see that, as well as the problem, we are right to talk about it, but the group is also getting closer in practice. What exactly was the question? Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u270	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u271	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u272	Excuse me, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u273	The question was whether the Minister recognized it and to what extent legislation could accommodate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u274	Yes, of course. This question has been asked several times, I think. Wherever it's possible, we're looking at smart bandages. Bringing legislation all the way together is not possible. I said that in my speech at the very beginning of the evening. We may not agree entirely, but bringing legislation into line means that the COA will be responsible for the reception of displaced persons from Ukraine. That's something that just doesn't go. There are therefore reasons to have separate routes, such as the temporary law. Local authorities are working very hard on the administrative framework for agreements. One sees the need for a separate temporary law. Meanwhile, my colleague, the Secretary of State for JenV, is also working on other legislation. Bringing them together would mean laying down powers with another party, and we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u275	You have the Housing Act for Statusholders, we get the temporary law for Ukrainian displaced persons and then another law for the designation of municipalities for asylum seekers. The fact that the cabinet chooses to invest this in three different laws does not make any sense for municipalities. There is, however, a need for a kind of clear framework. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u276	Partly. Partly there is that need for sure. But they're also three separate groups. We have to be honest about that, too. The municipalities are also very clear about this. Status holders have very different rights. There is also a very different legal basis on which you receive these people, than asylum seekers and displaced persons. If you did everything together, you wouldn't do justice to the differences. These are really different powers, things that the municipalities are responsible for and things that the Empire is responsible for. Then you get another very opaque situation. Wherever it's smart, we do it. Where it can't be done, make it as clear and clear as possible why it can't be done and what the possibilities are for each framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u277	Please continue. Oh, there's been an interruption by Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u278	I will continue with Mrs Kröger. We just had an interrupting debate on purpose and resources, didn't we? I hear the Minister very well and she says: I do not think it is wise to put these two laws together. At the same time, of course, it is recognised that municipalities need a little more clarity and a little more clarity about what comes first, what you think is more important and exactly what is expected of them. That in the first place. But that also applies, of course, to the people who ultimately have to deal with it, whether they are asylum seekers or Ukrainians or status holders. Does the Minister agree with me that it is important for those first two groups in particular to ensure, for the purpose of achieving timely care for all, that we keep these legislative processes running in a way that is a bit uniform? Now it is sometimes very poignant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u279	I'm thinking here again, part of it. I understand the question. Let me break it up very, very businesslike for you. The legislation, the state emergency law, which we are talking about today, we want, at least I do, but I think the Chamber too, to be as brief as possible. That means I want to be able to come up with a temporary law as soon as possible. We're gonna work on that all summer. At the same time, the legislation on regular asylum, which the Secretary of State is working on, will of course continue throughout the summer. But that can take a bit longer, because that is a completely different route and it is much more complex. We are now trying to pour state emergency law into a temporary law with democratic legitimacy, something that Mr Stoffer, for example, asked for. Whatever it can go on right away, we'd be happy to. At the same time, however, I would like to take state emergency law off the table as soon as possible, because it is not there for that. Mr. Chairman. It might be good to indicate what the mayors are asking for, because I can see what they're looking for. They point out, also in the discussions I have with them about this in the Security Council, that I must come up with a round story. Come up with a round story! That means you're gonna make sure you can keep people who don't belong here out front and turn them off faster. Also, make sure the people you're letting in know they're allowed to be here. Make sure you take care of the shelter in the region. And then make sure you help me to house the people who are entitled to it or to provide shelter for the people who are entitled to it. And also take care of the people who deserve temporary shelter, such as the Ukrainians. That round story is what the mayors specifically ask of us. Well, that's what the Secretary of State is doing. But that means: and at the front can control the flow and secure it well here in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u280	Of course, I didn't mean to suggest that we should only slow down the law for the Ukrainian evacuations a little bit, so that it gets along with the rest. I don't think that's the idea. At the same time, I wonder: what makes this law for regular asylum seekers so much more complex? That is what the Minister is describing. And what could we possibly learn from the trajectory that we are now going through for the Ukrainians to speed up the others as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u281	That is a good question from Mrs Podt, but I do not have a direct answer to it either, because it is mainly the Secretary of State who is working on it. But if Mrs Podt is okay with it, I'd be happy to pass on this question. I am sure that this will be discussed with the committee in the near future, of course. It seems very good to me that the Secretary of State should include the route we are currently on, the administrative arrangements and a temporary law, and see what elements we can or cannot apply. I'd be happy to pass that on to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u282	We are still expecting a number of letters from the Secretary of State, and it could perhaps be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u283	Look! I'm sure there's another page to come up with. Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u284	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u285	Mr Eerdmans spoke of a large number of non-Ukrainians among the people being received. They could be people who say they were here or there to study. But how's that going? Are they all refugees or are they perhaps migrants? And if so, what consequences do we have? If a Ukrainian displaced person cannot identify himself, he will be granted temporary shelter and will be referred to the Ukrainian embassy at the same time. If the Ukrainian Embassy finds that they are indeed Ukrainian nationals, the reception will continue, as discussed this evening. Where the Ukrainian embassy is unable to establish the identity or in the case of a alleged third-country national from Ukraine, the identity may still be established by the IND through a triage process. If the identity cannot be made plausible and if we simply do not get out, then the municipality can deny access to the shelter. In that case, the person concerned may apply for asylum through the regular asylum process. We saw people who are Ukrainians of nationality. We saw that people were there with a residence status. And there's gonna be people who don't have either. They can then be traced back to the country of origin or the asylum procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u286	That raises a question for Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u287	I had a similar question to Mr Eerdmans, but a different one. Do I understand from the Minister's words that the decision lies more or less with the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u288	No. No, it's really about whether you can identify yourself. If not, the IND can do it. If that's not possible, the municipality doesn't have to take care of it either. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u289	Let's see if we can come to something practical. Suppose there's someone from a safe country. Let's just call it "country A," and we'll have the least of it, I guess. That person has studied there and comes here and also gives all the information: I was in Ukraine, I fled because of war violence, I came to the Netherlands. Is that person being sent to the IND at that time and says the IND whether that person can make an asylum application here or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u290	So someone stayed with a valid residence status in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u291	Yeah, but he's from country A.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u292	I'm going to give you the answer, but I'm going to check at the same time to see if what I'm saying is true, because this is the Secretary of State's expertise. The moment you had a valid residence status there, you come here in the displaced person's approach as we have it. But people who don't have residence status aren't. But I'm gonna check this out. I see nodding, so it's right in the base. I have the answer for Mr Slootweg in a moment, I think, and otherwise I will come back to it more emphatically in the second term. Because it listens closely, so I don't want to say anything that doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u293	Fine, thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u294	I shall now turn to Mr Van Haga's question. He asked: is it true that the amounts that municipalities receive from the Empire through the special scheme for buildings are more profitable to these municipalities than what companies pay to municipalities? The Empire reimburses the municipal costs for the reception on the basis of a ministerial funding scheme. The funds are provided to municipalities by means of a specific allowance. The starting point is that municipalities will be reimbursed afterwards on the basis of the costs incurred. Municipalities and security regions receive a standard amount of €700 per week per realized municipal shelter. We are now evaluating this standard amount with the VNG through an independent monitoring study. In that we will see whether the amount should be adjusted or not. So that's considered independently. Under the specific benefit scheme, municipalities have to account for themselves afterwards. It may be that a benefit is claimed back if it is not legally issued. In this way, a lower amount can also be paid. The amount transferred is, in short, not without obligation. Then Mr Van Dijk. The government refers to civil society, such as the Red Cross, for providing support to municipalities. How does the Minister see this? Are we supposed to be referring to that? The cabinet tries in many different ways to support municipalities in this task, both administratively and financially. In addition, the cabinet has very much taken advantage of the offer of several NGOs and parties in civil society to play a role. The same applies to churches and ecclesiastical institutions. We are very grateful to these actors for that. Moreover, this is how we have traditionally arranged and organised asylum reception in our country. So we also regularly fall back on churches, for example. But that doesn't mean that we're asking congregations to refer people to these NGOs just like that. Definitely not. Wherever possible, the Empire also provides support for questions from municipalities. But the use of NGOs and others is a very welcome addition. Mrs Van der Plas had the question of how many Ukrainian refugees are now in the Netherlands, how many have decided to return and have already returned. Mrs Van der Plas, the number of displaced persons from Ukraine in the Netherlands is currently 68,280. In total, 8.4 million displaced persons from Ukraine have fled their country. It's true that people have gone back. On return, they must opt out of the Basic Registration Persons and are no longer included in these figures. At the moment, 4.090 people have signed out of that basic registration. About 250 departure procedures have been introduced for Ukrainians with a return wish and 120 Ukrainians have also left with the help of the Return and Departure Service. Return assistance takes place on the basis of need and voluntaryness. From the numbers you can see that a lot of people have also returned on their own. These are the numbers. Then Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u295	Just a moment, Mrs Van der Plas has a question about that. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u296	That's right. Thanks for figuring it out. That's gonna raise a question for me. I also asked whether we know the forecasts of this year's returners, except that 250 departure procedures have been launched. That exit procedure triggered my attention for a moment. What's a departure procedure? I understand that, as 'ordinary' asylum seekers, I say that briefly, they must leave the country, for example, they are sometimes helped with money or with equipment. It has been explained to me that it is in itself very good to imagine that, for example, boys from Africa, who have come here with great dreams, are a disgrace to the family when they return. So they're gonna get a little something. Or at least they're being helped. But what's a departure procedure here? Will Ukrainians be helped or will they receive money? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u297	If Mrs Van der Plas agrees, I will come back to that later. Let me ask you, because that too is, of course, something my colleague, the Secretary of State, is working on in terms of substance. But I can certainly tell you that more precisely in the second term. The forecasts depend entirely on the scenarios that are developing in Ukraine. Scenarios are being made from these points of view, including military-social ones, but there is nothing to say about that. We're following it. We are also following what is happening in the countries around us, but these are the figures. In fact, we have to fall back on that to see what it's like in fact. But specifically on these departure procedures, I hope to be able to come back in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u298	Yeah, we're gonna write that down. It'll be back in a minute. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u299	Then Mr Van Dijk asked: what will happen if Ukrainians get a residence permit? Then they must also have homes and all kinds of other things; how is that going? If Ukrainians get a residence permit, they should also have a residence and such. You'll end up in that category of people, but that's not the issue right now. At present they are still covered by the Temporary Protection Directive, which, as has been said, has been established by Europe. In the first instance, temporary protection has been established for exactly one year. Such protection may, if necessary, be extended to a maximum of three years. So we're not there yet. I think we all hope for the Ukrainians that there will be a completely different situation and that they will be able to return home safely. Mr Slootweg asked: can you outline the outline of the programmed approach and also take into account the existing housing crisis? Those are very reasonable questions. I understand that very well. Under the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister for Housing and Spatial Planning, the Task Force has recently started accelerating temporary housing with the aim of accelerating projects in municipalities aimed at housing Ukrainians through flex housing and transformation of existing buildings. From this task force the interview takes place with the housing corporations and the business community to maximize the supply of such housing. A number of municipalities have taken the initiative to implement temporary housing projects on the scale appropriate for them, given the spatial and logistical possibilities. The task force supports the municipalities in tightening up the business case. The National Reception Organisation, which again falls within the scope of the DG OEK within my ministry, and the said task force supports municipalities on several points, for example in preparing a project for decision-making, in preparing business cases and in legal procedures. By the way, should municipalities retain business case financial deficits that might be good to add, 100 million have been made available to support the municipalities in that case. Mr Slootweg had asked to what extent the Netherlands is using the REACT-EU programme, which made 3.5 billion available for the reception of refugees from Ukraine. The cabinet underlines the importance of a united and united European response to the invasion of Ukraine and its enormous consequences, not only in Ukraine but also, as we are discussing this evening, in the Member States. The cabinet therefore welcomes the measures to support Member States in providing emergency aid to people fleeing Ukraine. Due to the exceptional situation, the Netherlands supports the proposal to pay more pre-financing for REACT-EU funds in order to provide additional liquidity for Member States, particularly those with the highest refugee numbers, to deal with this massive crisis. The proposal is in line with the government's commitment to finding European financing for crisis reduction within existing instruments and already available resources. The cabinet is exploring the possibility of making use of this, but I can't tell you the exact amount yet. It's not known yet. Mr Slootweg also asked me how I look at the idea of translating information on Dutch health care into Ukrainian. I am in favour of that. This is also being looked at, because displaced people from Ukraine are also entitled to medical care in our country. As from 1 July, the costs will be covered by the Medical Care Scheme. That care package is also the same as the Medical Care Scheme Asylum seekers. I think it would be good to see if we can make it more accessible. Then my last question in this folder. Mr Slootweg asked about health care projects for general practitioners. He asked if we know GPvogeleling.nl and how we look at it to make this project easier to find, including for Ukrainian refugees. I am aware of the initiative, and any initiative that contributes to the care of displaced persons is very important. We very much appreciate private initiatives like this. It is very complex to keep an eye on the many private initiatives that exist. That is also what makes our country so beautiful, of course. It is good that so many people have risen and said: I am going to play a meaningful role in this. In the framework of private initiatives, refugeehelp.nl was officially launched on Friday 18 March. This is a platform for cooperation between RefugeeWork Netherlands, SparkOptimus, NAVARA and many other social partners. That is what Ukrainian refugees share with each other and what is available to make it as accessible as possible. Then I have a short folder of regular asylum seekers. That is beyond the scope of this debate, but I understand, of course, that some questions have been asked about it. Mrs Bikker asked me to give a reflection on the crisis structure for the reception of ordinary asylum seekers and a reflection on reports of inspections; even with regular reception, a lot is not going well. The emergency care and emergency care for regular asylum seekers are not sufficient in many parts. In my view, the Secretary of State also discussed this in detail in this afternoon's debate and also indicated his full commitment to normalising this situation. Your committee has also spoken extensively with the Secretary of State. Mr Van Dijk said that there is a difference between Ukrainian reception and regular reception; is this distinction sustainable? We talked about that earlier tonight. He talked about how the practice is and about both of those laws. I will say it again, but briefly: we would also like to see no distinction between the reception of displaced persons from Ukraine and other asylum seekers. But it's about who's gonna catch who. We saw that outside the regular structures of the COA we had to take care of things. The aim of reception is always to ensure a level playing field. Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer said that the use of coercive measures for the reception of regular asylum seekers is risky, at least not desirable; should we not continue to seek support? I think that is a very important point. It is also the starting point of the cabinet, in particular the Secretary of State, who has previously indicated to the Chamber that a legal instrument is really an extremely useful instrument. We also hope that it is not really necessary, but at some point you have to explore what is even more possible if you would come to that point. But I agree that acceptance is incredibly, incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u300	I hear the Minister say that she would also prefer to see no distinction at all in the reception of different people who are entitled to care and then I hear another legal argument. Then there's something I don't understand. The emergency shelter lies with the municipalities, so that is the same as the reception of Ukrainians. So there is no argument that the COA is responsible. The level of provision is not at all the same, let alone that is regulated in the same way. So why do we not choose to say in the agreements with the municipalities that crisis relief and reception of Ukrainians are simply one task?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u301	We still need a legal basis for this. That's what we're doing right now. That is now state emergency law, and that will soon be the temporary law. Then there will be different forms, but then it will all be with the municipalities. It's not like you can just say that and get it over with. We need a legal basis for this, and that is exactly why we are standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u302	Sure. That legal basis is now in state emergency law and so directly in that temporary law. At the moment, the emergency crisis response of asylum seekers is completely different. I have been to Leeuwarden; how people are taken care of is quite different from how Ukrainians are taken care of. If the minister says she wants these people to be taken care of together, why not make arrangements with the municipalities to just treat them equally and take them together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u303	What we have now done with the regular asylum shelter is inadequate; it is not good how it is done. Of course, Mrs Kröger is quite right about that; that is what I said. That is why we have also set up the crisis structure, and that is why we are now looking at crisis relief, intermediate housing, intermediate solutions and the flow of the people who can flow out, such as status holders. That is a huge, huge task and at the same time Ukrainians continue to come in. If only there was a scenario where you could say to the municipalities: we put it together now and then it's solved. That's not going to happen. There's shortages everywhere, so there's gonna be room everywhere. There are places reserved for Ukrainians. That was just reported and I think it was also shared by the Secretary of State this afternoon. We're already over 90%. So it's not like there's a lot of space now and there's a solution when you put it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u304	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u305	Then I'll get to Mrs. Van der Plas. She talked about the stalled asylum chain and wondered what we were doing to create space there. For example, she talked about talks with Morocco. I think that was discussed this afternoon; JenV's Secretary of State is working hard on that. I think he also indicated this afternoon that there have been several meetings at political level recently, as well as high-level consultations between Morocco and the Netherlands. So what Mrs Van der Plas is looking for, we are looking for that too, and we are also working on that. Morocco is also taking steps forward in contributing to return and we are also seeing positive steps that we are firmly committed to in the coming period. It is important to give this further form. Let me say straight away that the Secretary of State has undoubtedly said this afternoon that it is of course only a success when we see that the first laissez-passers have been provided. But there is reason to be positive, because those conversations are ongoing. At the same time, I would like to take away the idea that this would be directly relevant to today's reception issue, so for what we are talking about. I do not think Mrs Van der Plas meant it that way either. But it is of course relevant to the round story that I was talking about and what mayors are asking for: make sure that people who are not here go back. In fact, make sure that they do not enter the country at all, that you have strict procedures and that the people who do need us can also be welcomed in the region. The Secretary of State is busy with that whole story. Mrs van der Plas had another question about the national frameworks to be developed to create adequate asylum reception. I think Mrs Van der Plas asked a similar question last week in the Committee on Asylum and Aliens Policy. The Secretary of State replied yesterday. Among other things, he indicates that he takes the suggestion with him in the search for a process availability location. I think that was specifically about Lelystad, which Mrs Van der Plas was talking about at the time. But that is also a broader issue. He also takes this with him in the search for ways of creating sober reception for asylum seekers coming from safe countries of origin. Then my last question in this folder. After that, I only have the other very important questions. Mr Slootweg and, in my view, Mrs Podt asked why there were no other legislation... Oh, we have already discussed it in detail. Well, I'd be repeating myself a lot, wouldn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u306	Then we come to the last block, others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u307	Yes, very important questions. As a Member of Parliament, I was often in the other folder. I found that very annoying. So I call it different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u308	Yeah, I can imagine anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u309	Mr. Chairman. I have a question from Mr Markuszower. He said that we are actually all in an overall crisis and asked why we are not declaring a crisis for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In any case, he meant for everyone in the country. We don't just call out a crisis. That is what we do when there are unforeseen circumstances and when things happen that don't fit into the normal course of events. I will say straight away to Mr Markuszower that much is going on in our country. It's really not like people have it all the same easy, especially not. What happened in Ukraine is different. There really were unforeseen circumstances in the conflict there. Clearly, that is an exceptional, different situation. Since the outbreak of the conflict, almost 70,000 people in our country have had to find a safe haven. That's a situation we don't, I don't think, allow anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u310	No, definitely not. Of course, we do not grant war and violence to anyone. The Minister says that we could not see what was going to happen, but we can see that there are 40,000 homeless people in the Netherlands. We do know that in a dark scenario more than 1 million households cannot pay their bills anymore, and that already about half of that number cannot. So there are huge numbers of people living in poverty in the Netherlands. We do know that the ordinary Dutchman barely comes to a house. They're priceless or they're just not there. In some municipalities, you've been on a waiting list for 17 years. In the minister's municipality, that will not be much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u311	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u312	My question is: does the Minister understand that she is a minister in the Netherlands, primarily for the Dutch? And why doesn't she do much more for the common Dutch, as she is doing for the Ukrainians now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u313	I think I can say two things about that. The first is that I hope that Mr Markuszower does not set groups against each other. This isn't or-or. We're a country. We can offer security to Ukrainians, who were suddenly attacked by a brutal aggressor, namely Russia. So I am proud that we are doing so, and I am proud that we are doing so together with thousands and thousands of individuals. I would also like to say the following. For people who are following this debate, the idea may well arise that we are actually only dealing with these kinds of issues, for people who come from outside our country and for whom I would like to offer a safe haven. But I spend almost every week with Mr Markuszower in a debate, in which I also show him what I do, for example, for the security and freedom of the Dutch and of all the people here in our country. I think the President will turn off my microphone if I mention all that. Then we'll have the circle round tonight. It's a long story. But I think it is very wise not to set groups against each other, especially at this time, and to ensure that we give Dutch people the space to live their lives properly, and also to people who have to flee acutely from war. Then Mrs Bikker had the next question. She cited the andreas crosses of Amsterdam and the mercy, for which, for example, Amsterdam stands, but for which people in our country are also much wider. She said: will we ensure that we keep international agreements and receive people on the run? And: here comes mercy. I think she's absolutely right about that. I also think that we showed that, especially at the beginning of the war, when we said acutely with each other: this really cannot be done and we offer a safe haven. That's what you really see in practice. Another question from Mr Brekelmans. I've already answered it. No, I haven't answered that at all. Excuse me. This is about modernising emergency rights. That's also what's playing. That is a very extensive journey. We want to modernise the emergency right. That's what we should do. Even if you look at this legislation, you can see that the right of emergency is old. It is useful, but there are also elements that are no longer applicable at all. There are a lot of emergency laws, a lot more than I thought we had, that intervene on each other in different ways. So if you want to modernise that properly, you will have to do it really prioritized, phased and carefully. That's what we're doing right now. I expect that after the summer we will have the framework in which we will do so ready and send it to the Chamber. Then there will be some steps in between, but that has to do with the fact that we have a lot of different emergency laws, which are very connected. I have one more question from Mr Van Meijeren. He's gone. He said: through all-destructive mass immigration and all kinds of other misery that we all have here, we are obliged to accommodate strangers in our own home. And he asked: is the government prepared to investigate how many Dutch people are waiting for this? Once again, it is good to report, I am sure to say to Mr Van Meijeren, who will undoubtedly look back and perhaps make a nice video of it, which some 20,000 displaced people from Ukraine have found shelter with Dutch citizens who have immediately said: I am making my home available. I have a great deal of respect for that. That's what Holland is. That is on a totally voluntary basis. Let me repeat what I started this debate with: progressing the use of housing is a matter of some importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u314	Thank you. Then there's another question from Mr. Stoffer. Am I getting that right? Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u315	I assume the Minister is at the end of her first term. Then there is one thing left for me that we had a very brief exchange of views on, and that is the question: why was this instrument of power taken? We agree that the moment it would be war here and the security services or the CDS indicate that there is a risk that bombs will fall and so on, you will have to move people. I think we can agree on that. When you know, for example in 1995, that dikes break through in the Betuwe, or almost, you have a crisis organization that indicates: this is going to be so dangerous; the chances are very high that things really go wrong. Then you must act acutely. The Minister and I do not entirely agree, but well, the Council of State has advised on it and then you have to agree on the application that is now being used: that large influx of refugees. But now I think it says: when it comes to large groups of refugees crossing our borders. I think that's the point. At the time this legislation came into force on 1 April, there was no acute problem, as I see it. There were plenty of shelters. There were still a lot of empty beds. It is precisely because of what the Minister has just appointed 'I am so proud of', because of all those places in people who privately made their homes available and so on, Mr President, you want me to go on, but I haven't done so many interruptions, so I'm taking my time, then, to me is the question: what is the acute point at which this had to be done? Because you are not going to use this legislation for the sake of certainty. All I can find is that the COA may not have been able to handle it, and then we need to leave that power with mayors. But then you just have to have an acute situation, right? I don't think there was one. So I'd like to hear from the Minister what it was acutely why it had to be at that time and couldn't be left out. I think it went well on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u316	I have a bit of the impression that the SGP initially said 'we do not support this', and I do not wish to support it now. But Mr Stoffer cannot ask me the following. Four months ago we saw villages, municipalities, houses, schools, everything being bombed by Russia, suddenly, out of nowhere. People who look like me and Mr. Stoffer had to leave everything behind and run away. We saw that power. It took them a while to get to us; that's true. There is a continent in between; they have to go from one side to the other. But we saw people in panic fleeing Russia's bombs. That's quite an acute problem. I'm 100% sure that if we had said "well, we have some beds; we'll take a look at how long it takes for that power to get here," Mr. Stoffer would have said here: are you okay; suddenly there's a war going on with our neighbors, so why didn't you set up and set up something to make sure you can take people properly? And this is anything but a means of power. We're just giving mayors the powers to say, okay, I can take it. We help them with finance, with frameworks, to make sure that they do well. I am extremely proud that we have been able to accommodate nearly 70,000 people in this way. An acute problem? There was an acute war on the European continent, next to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u317	There's one thing I want to take away here. I heard this morning that I'm doing this law enforcement. I didn't worry too much about it, because it was with my colleague, so what it was like back then, I don't know. I just have some sincere questions right now. I think that with this emergency legislation, Mr President, this is really just a serious point, and with emergency state law very, very economical, and therefore needs to be treated purely with each other as to why you are using it. You're gonna have to chew that off here to the last bone, as far as I'm concerned. Then we can disagree, but in the end we say, well, this is it. I mean, the cabinet really doesn't have to leave; that's not how the SGP's been put together for 100 years. But it sounds to me in the sense of: it is for the sake of certainty...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u318	Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u319	...because those great streams are headed our way. Because you can do this every day. You could have done that on April 3rd, or April 5th or April 10th. You could have done that right away. "To prevent this"; I do not think that this legislation is intended to do so. If there were too many here and you had a socially disruptive situation or degrading circumstances, you can say: right now. There's the difference between the minister and me. If the Minister can't tell me "I had exactly this information that it would be disruptive at that moment, directly, within 24 hours," then we don't agree. That may be so, but I would like to put it very clearly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u320	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u321	As soon as you implement this law, you must also allow the municipalities and the mayors the space to do something with it. If you wait until the last couple of hours and so the law only applies when people come this way and just cross the border, I charge now, because that is not how Mr Stoffer said it, then that would be quite unreasonable towards the mayors. We have analyses and see what is happening through Russia in Ukraine, what flows that is moving, and also what the countries around it can handle, so it's only a matter of time before people get here. Then you want to create a solid legal basis, and we had it. This is the second time since 1952 that the law is deployed, and the first time nationwide. So it's really not like we're getting the law out of the drawer because we're thinking, well, this is an emergency. Definitely not. It was used once before, in 1960 or 1962 I believe, because of high tide in Amsterdam. It was then used locally and also in specific parts of Amsterdam. It is therefore very careful. Maybe this is what I'm going to say. Despite the fact that the situation has not changed, as the COA is still unable to handle it and the war is continuing, I also argue that it should be as short as possible, because state emergency law is not meant for longer, even if I can back it up if I maintain it for longer. But we're not gonna do that. That's why we're working on a temporary law. I actually think that all those elements which Mr Stoffer understandably refers to, I think it is good that, when he has heard it this morning, he can do so, so thank you for weighing up and defending this debate. We'll also show you why we want to quit as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u322	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend the meeting until 9:25, for personal reasons. No big deal, but I'm an old man.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, can you all take your seats again? Thank you for understanding. We're going to the second term on the side of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Markuszower. Mr. Markuszower waives a second term. Mrs Bikker is no longer here, just like Mr Eerdmans. I call Mr Van Haga. Yeah, that'll do. Time flies when you are having fun. Go ahead, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u324	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the reception of Ukrainian refugees would not be a problem if the regular asylum policy were in order;]] [[calls on the government to make top priority of the expulsion of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants who have been detained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government not to force municipalities to receive asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to prevent people from being forced by municipalities to give up their second residence temporarily because of the asylum shelter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36081-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36081-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36081-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u326	Thank you very much. I call Mr Brekelmans. No, he doesn't need it. Mr Van Dijk is now also elsewhere. Mr. Stoffer, SGP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u327	Now that I'm on this committee, I'm gonna take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u328	Sure. Enjoy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u329	Mr. Chairman. I shall first table two motions and then conclude briefly. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has deployed the State Emergency Law for the reception and care of Ukrainian displaced persons;]] [[Whereas the People's Movement Act was activated at the time of the availability of more than 10,000 reception places for Ukrainian displaced persons and therefore there was no acute emergency;]] [[whereas the Council of State states that state emergency law "should be re-used and interpreted restrictively";]] [[calls on the Government to exercise extreme restraint with regard to the use of state emergency law and related far-reaching measures, and to limit their deployment to (acute) emergencies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36081-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u330	The next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the activation of Articles 2c and 4 of the Relocation Act obliges mayors to take care of the reception of Ukrainian refugees;]] [[noting that the Cabinet is also investigating the use of binding legal instruments for the reception of asylum seekers;]] [[Whereas the use of coercion in the reception of refugees is undesirable and does not contribute to the acceptance of reception;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from any form of coercion in the reception of Ukrainian refugees and regular asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36081-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u331	Mr. Chairman. This was a bit of a debate in principle. Certainly my last interruption may have been a bit sharp, but I did so knowingly because we are talking about state emergency law and then you have to get to the bottom of each other. We can see that the Minister, the Cabinet, is looking at the implementation of this rather than the SGP. I think it is a good idea to record this here in the Acts, especially with regard to the future. Hopefully it will never come up, but perhaps one or two more times in the next 50, 60 years. And then you have to have those arguments with each other very sharp: why or why not? That's why I've been very keen on this. I'm very critical of it. This is without prejudice to the fact that I understand very well that a cabinet that has to make acute choices does so and that sometimes it may go wrong in my view. I actually expected that there was something more equestrian in the sense of: it would not have been necessary; we could also have made another choice. I didn't hear that, but that could happen in the second term. Everything else is the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u332	We'll see. Before that, there is another interruption by Mr Markuszower before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u333	More in the form of a support. It is indeed important to note in the Acts that this is not the way we should have gone as a democracy. I'd like to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u334	Mr. Stoffer, would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u335	Thanks for the support, but I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u336	No, me neither. I'm going to see Mrs. Van der Plas. Well, I'm not going to see her, but she's coming to me. And as a reward, I'll give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to say that, frankly, I am a little surprised. I'm not about someone else's agenda. I'm not gonna judge that people are gone or not. But I think this is a very important debate. Here are just really fundamental things being done. I am not saying that it is happening, but it is possible that fundamental fundamental rights will be affected. I'm not saying it's happening, but it's possible. And then I'm standing in front of an almost empty room. I just want to share this. Are we gonna stand here again if it doesn't work out? Could we have prevented things? They're my thoughts. Sometimes I come to debates and then I think there will be a few people and the whole room is full. And here I really expected that. Anyway, enough talk. I just wanted to share that. It's no use to you at all, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u338	The course...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u339	I had two and a half minutes, so I thought, "Let me share my thoughts with the Chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u340	The course dealing with disappointments is unfortunately cancelled tonight. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u341	Either way, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas activation of State emergency law is very substantial and proportionality must always be guaranteed;]] [[calls on the government on a monthly basis to analyse the proportionality of emergency law under the Continuing Law Articles 2c and 4 Wvb, and to allow this analysis to be carried out by the House of Representatives, so that citizens in the Netherlands can follow closely the developments surrounding this far-reaching law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36081-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u343	That's it, thank you. I call Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u344	Mr. Chairman. After this debate, I am also left with a bit of a double and yet unpleasant feeling. I understand, on the one hand, that the moment we thought that Kiev was going to fall and hundreds of thousands or more people would come to the Netherlands, state emergency law has been activated. I do not understand why other legislation was not adopted much earlier in the period after that. I also do not understand why there was no serious consideration of an amendment to the Housing Act. I do not hear the Minister making good legal arguments for this either. I did not see in the decision paper and the underlying documents a legal analysis as an explanation for the choice of long-term state emergency law. Nor do I understand why it was not chosen much earlier both in the practical arrangements with the municipalities on the reception of asylum seekers and Ukrainians as well as in the legal setting of agreements. I think it has been a political choice in a debate very early on. I remember the debate in which the VVD said: we can guarantee that municipalities can always choose whether to receive Ukrainians or not and that asylum seekers and Ukrainians are not mixed. I think this has been a political choice. We can, but then we have to be open and honest about that. Now there is a legal argument. Having said that, I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current state emergency law for the reception of Ukrainian displaced persons does not apply to persons in the asylum procedure;]] [[Whereas municipalities are at stake for the reception of asylum seekers, status holders and Ukrainian displaced persons;]] [[calls on the Government to further consider the reception of displaced Ukrainians and asylum seekers, both in the agreements with the UNG and in the further legislative pathways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36081-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u346	Thank you. Then I come to Mr. Slootweg, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive answer to the questions and for a number of commitments to see how to make matters more accessible from a national perspective, especially when it comes to health services. This afternoon, the Secretary of State had a sneeze attack when I was standing here, just like the Secretary of State now. I'm starting to think that this allergic reaction to CDAs is causing something, but all right, I'll be out of here in a minute, so that's not such a problem. I started this input because I wanted the grounds clear. It is important to us that it has become clear that a number of issues, including the Ukrainian displaced persons, have been dealt with on a separate status, which lies in the agreements we have made around Europe. I actually think that is quite logical when you see what has happened and what has happened in Member States such as Poland, Hungary and Romania, because these are, of course, huge numbers. We are still talking about a reasonably manageable number of refugees. So this special status, I understand. Within this separate status and what is suddenly coming towards us, I also understand that the distinction must be made between what the COA is going to do and what the municipalities must do. I think that is very fundamental. Well, then I guess I have the point that you have to be very pure around that particular status. Who should be counted and who shouldn't? I can't quite follow the cabinet when it comes to third-country nationals who are safe is going to say that they are more or less covered by temporary protection. I asked a question about that and it doesn't have to be answered tonight. I do think you should be very careful about it, also because it is very important to maintain the support of society. If you have to be very careful with that status, you must also be very careful with that emergency law. I understand why it was made, because you need those places. Maybe that wasn't another way to do it. But I do think that in the future you will have to look at both COA and legislation to see what to do when you have a significant influx. There are all kinds of tensions in the world. I hope with Mr Stoffer that it will take 50 to 60 years, but it can also be faster. What do we need to do to do that? It is very good that we have a certain inconvenience here when it comes to emergency legislation. Sometimes you need it. I'm glad the repertoire has it. I am also grateful that the Minister has been able to take us step by step in where the decisions are coming from. It would be nice if in future we could move faster along the current legislation. I think we need to strengthen the COA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u348	Thank you. I'll see if Mrs Podt wants another opportunity. That is not the case. Mr Van Meijeren has already left us. I'm gonna suspend the meeting until 9:50, and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u349	The next item is the second time-limit for the Minister. I am happy to give her the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u350	I have seven motions and I have two questions that I would like to return to. The first question is from Mrs van der Plas, about departure procedures. Ukrainian displaced persons are supported on voluntary departure in the same way as other foreigners. This means that they can get help if they ask for it when obtaining documents and, if relevant, for example, airline tickets. In addition, they receive a support fee of €200 per person on checked departure. That's what it looks like. It is indeed as I said to Mr Slootweg: people coming here from Ukraine have three categories. You have people who are Ukrainians of nationality. They are being received here as displaced persons, as we discussed this evening. Then you've got people who had a residence permit there. They can be taken care of here, because they were allowed to stay there and have to flee from there. And you have people whose identities you can't identify if they didn't have a residence permit there. If they report to the municipality with the request to be taken care of, the municipality will say: you must report to the IND and then you will go into or back to the country of origin. Those are the three groups. Then I'll go to the motions. Mr Van Haga's motion for a resolution 8 calls on the government to make the removal of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants a top priority. I shall confine myself to the operative part of the motion. I can state that return policy is top priority of the cabinet. Therefore, in view of the operative part, the motion will be given a Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u351	Even. That's what you're talking about, but if it's a policy, then the motion in part No. 8 may be unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u352	I'd like to take over the motion, too, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u353	Yeah, but it could be redundant, too. No? You're taking over the motion. I'll see if there's any objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u354	I hear there's an objection to that. But it is absolutely a support of how we stand in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u355	All right, judge Room. An interruption by Mrs Podt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u356	I find it a little strange that the Minister is just jumping over the recital. We have had several debates on this this evening, and we have been told from all sides that this is not true. I find it strange that the judgment becomes Chamber or take over, while there are factual inaccuracies in the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u357	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u358	I understand this interruption. We often use an interpretation or an explanation. I'll give the explanation to the motion. Of course, I do not agree with the first recital, but the operative part of the request is simply part of the policy. It is a top priority to expel displaced asylum seekers and illegal immigrants as soon as possible. I can't stand that. That's why I can take over the motion, or else she'll be judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u359	I think we should conclude this debate in good harmony. I accept the proposal. I've never had a motion taken over, so let's just let the motion take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u360	Yeah, but I'm gonna have to take a look at the others. There's no agreement, so we're just going to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u361	We tried, Mr. Van Haga. Maybe this was our only moment, but yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u362	Time will tell. Mr. Markuszower, about this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u363	It's a short interruption, because it's the second term. I do have a problem with this minister right now. If the Minister really believes that the government is a top priority of the expulsion of asylum seekers and illegal immigrants, the government is showing a huge licence of inability. No or very few illegal immigrants are being deported and no or very few asylum seekers are being deported. Two thirds stay in the Netherlands anyway. If this is really a top priority, we all have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u364	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u365	It's an absolute challenge. That's why everything's being put on top of everything. The new coalition agreement, only six months young, shows all kinds of other steps we are taking. It remains incredibly important to maintain support for people who do deserve a safe haven here. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 9. It calls on the government not to force municipalities to receive asylum seekers. Municipalities have a legal job to take care of, so I have to discourage this motion. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Van Haga, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party It asks the government to prevent people from being forced by municipalities to give up their second home, whether temporarily or not, because of the asylum shelter. He's gonna get judgment, Room. There's no scenario that we're moving into housing. Let us disagree on parts on which we disagree, but not repeat the same thing over and over again. We're not gonna requisition any properties. Mr Stoffer's motion on item No. 11 is actually the same, I say towards Mrs Podt. There's a consideration I absolutely disagree with. It is claimed that there was no acute emergency. Then I think that the SGP is making Russia's invasion of Ukraine a little too short. However, the motion calls on the government to deal with the use of state emergency law with extreme restraint. I can only agree with the rest of the operative part. This is cabinet policy, so I would like to take over the motion, if I may, with the remark that I do not agree with the recital. May I take over the motion? Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u366	I'll just have to establish that. I'll see if there's any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 11 by the Cabinet. I see there's no objection, so the motion has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u367	The motion in part No. 12 is not recommended, for the same reason as Mr Van Haga's motion. The motion in part No. 13 belongs to Mrs Van der Plas. The motion asks whether monitoring what we are putting in place is still satisfactory. The analysis of whether state emergency law is still applicable is ongoing. We are also more or less obliged to do so, because I need to be able to explain it to you in two months' time. The motion will be judged by Chamber in that sense. We always look at it. No one wants it to last longer than is really necessary. Because we are working so hard on the administrative framework and the temporary law throughout the summer, and I intend to come back fairly soon after the summer, I would ask Mrs Van der Plas not to do it monthly. As soon as there's a change, or when I say after the summer that we can't change it for that and that reason, I'll come back to it actively. Then in the summer we can work on passing the temporary law. The motion gets judgment Chamber based on the bet I read so: make sure you are constantly sharp, so it doesn't last longer than necessary. That is absolutely the stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u368	I see Mrs Van der Plas nodding, so she agrees with your interpretation. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u369	Thank you very much for that. Then I have the last motion, in part no. 14, by Mrs Kröger. It invites the government to further consider the reception of displaced Ukrainians and asylum seekers, both in the agreements with the UNG and in further legislative pathways. May I read the motion as I have just explained, namely that we see it absolutely in conjunction, but that it is separate routes for the reasons I have just given? If the coherence with this is underlined, the motion will be given a Chamber of Appeal. If I have to read the motion in such a way that the legislative pathways need to be fully integrated, then I must say that it cannot be done. I just explained that. In that case, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u370	We're gonna see what Mrs. Kröger's intentions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u371	As I said, it is very important for me that the agreements with the VNG simply include plans for the whole group. If the Minister has legal grounds for separate legislative pathways, I'm going to see if she convinces me if those legislative pathways are in place. I think it can be arranged in one law. I'd look for coherence in that. The Minister may not choose to do so. As long as we approach the municipalities with the message that it is one task.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u372	I'm gonna take a look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u373	I see the coherence when it comes to displaced Ukrainians and asylum seekers. We're having that conversation with the congregations. They're the same people sitting at the table. I think it is good to keep showing it back, after which my colleague or I will come back with separate legislative pathways. I guess we'll have a discussion about it then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u374	We'll see. I note that the motion in part No. 14 Court of Justice has been given by the Minister, with the explanation given. Then we come to Mr. Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u375	However, I would like to point out that municipalities do not stand up for asylum seekers. That's the COA. When it comes to crisis relief, it is true that it is being deposited with municipalities. This motion will be read, even with the Minister's explanation, if municipalities become responsible for everyone. This is now also the subject of an advisory report. The suggestion that municipalities are setting the bar for asylum seekers is simply not correct. That's the COA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u376	I have not heard Mrs Kröger's contribution in this way, nor have I read the motion in that way. I think this is a very nice clarification. It is not intended that, with one motion, all of a sudden, we are going to shuffle the powers completely. That is certainly not the issue. The powers are as we discussed them tonight and as I suggest we keep them: the Ukrainians at the municipalities and the rest at the COA. It's gonna stay that way. There is a great task for us and that is what we are talking about with the municipalities in collaborations such as the VNG and the Security Council. We will always deal with this in coherence and in that way, but we are absolutely keeping those lines and those responsibilities separate. But that's how I understood Mrs Kröger. I see her nodding. And for the Acts, I think everyone reads it the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u377	So you don't need a modified motion? I'm gonna ask you for clarity, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u378	It could clarify it, but I myself think that this really comprehensive interpretation of the Acts of three people in this Chamber will bring us together. There will be separate legislative pathways...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u379	Okay, then let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u380	...and the powers remain separate. But I understand the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u381	With this explanation, the motion in part No. 14 Judgment Chamber received. That's it! Thank you very much. There is nothing left for me but to thank the Minister and her officials, the members and our unfaithful support in all imaginable forms. I would also like to thank the people in the public gallery, including two gentlemen who have helped to guard the order here. Along with me! I also wish another gentleman all the good. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have followed the debate elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-06-tweedekamer-18.u382	Having said that, I will close the meeting and wish everyone a good evening.
