ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal Third incidental supplementary budget on equity issues Air France-KLM (36108). I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State to the First Chamber. I understand that Mr Crone wishes to speak on a procedural proposal. I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. We received a letter less than an hour ago about the governance in the Air France-KLM board. In it we read a few things we haven't heard before about the responsibilities of dependent and independent members of the board. I would like to have the opportunity to put a question to the Minister on this question, not a political debate, because this matters and we did not have this information until an hour ago. That is why I asked for this debate to be postponed for half an hour. It seems to me appropriate to ask this question of clarification now. After the clarification answer, we can just do the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u3	So you want to ask one question that comes with one answer. I note that no one is resisting doing this for a moment. Mr Crone, you have the floor for that one question. However, you must tell which of the directors is the question addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u4	I suspect that this is a question for the Minister responsible for state participations, the Minister of Finance. We have just received the letter saying that since 2004 until the purchase of shares in 2019 the Netherlands had a member of the board. But that was an independent member. And an independent member cannot tell everything to the State and is not there on behalf of the State. The Member shall, however, be nominated. After the stock purchase in 2019, the Dutch board member became a dependent member. A dependent member may share all information, all documents, with the Dutch State. The member shall share the documents of the meeting and may coordinate the position to be taken on the board. The vision of the Dutch State may be given to the board member. Of course someone is also there to listen to the others and to take their own stand, but someone is there as well as someone else, let me say it disrespectfully. That's since 2019, because we got that stock expansion back then. Next, that's the crucial point "The Cabinet now says: Air France-KLM's board might consider changing the status of the Dutch board member to "independent', i.e. to that lesser position before 2019. It says "may consider" if our share waters down to 2%-3%. It's the word "tuning" that matters to me. Apparently, a dependent member may be there with the Dutch assignment. The cabinet says: that's why such a person is on the Sustainable Development and Compliance Committee and can co-negotiate the network, for example. I'd like that, too. Of course, it matters whether someone sitting there is dependent or independent. We haven't read this in any of the previous pieces, let alone understood. Of course, that's up to us. We've never read it like that. It was always about more or less information position, but I find an information position a little less heavy than a alignment position. I would like to ask the Minister if I have summarised it correctly. I have quoted as much as possible from your letter, but perhaps I have not understood it correctly. It matters a lot, maybe even for others in the first term. The specific question is the following. It says here: Air France-KLM's board could consider returning the status of the Netherlands to "independent."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u5	I imagine the Minister of Finance might want a brief suspension. Or are you able to answer directly, Minister? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u6	Thank you. Thank you, too, for reading the letter so carefully. Two things. "Depending" actually means "independent in the exercise of the tasks," i.e.: the dependent board member indeed accepts the instruction, may share full information and sits there actively to serve the Dutch interest. Before, before we bought the shares, we did indeed have an independent board member there. He couldn't and couldn't share information. What is mentioned in the letter and what we have previously exchanged, also publicly with the House of Representatives, is: should the public interest be watered down because the Netherlands does not participate in an Air France-KLM stock issue, it could change the position of our board member. If, for example, we reach 2%, then there is a real risk, we cannot confirm that the board member becomes independent again. So we would have lost sight of the information and no more control.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u7	Thank you. This was the implementation of the order proposal. We're not going to have a debate about it. If you want to ask another question, it will require a new order proposal, Mr. Otten. Now it's getting out of hand. If you want to ask any more questions, that's fine with me. Then I'm gonna suspend and plan an extra debate. I'm giving the Minister a chance to say something, but I'm not giving him an opportunity to follow up. That was not Mr Crone's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u8	Perhaps in order to reassure Mr Crone, I would like to say the following. I do not know what changed in 2004 or earlier years. I would like to confirm that once again in the future towards this Chamber. It is in itself information that did not become very acute earlier, because the discussions on capital support that have taken place recently in recent years, of course, were not about these positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed with the regular debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u10	I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Then let me immediately ask one follow-up question and then I'll take my contribution back. The letter just sent by the cabinet says: the board of Air France-KLM might consider changing the status of the Dutch board member. "Could consider," how am I supposed to imagine that? It's not a certainty. It could be. I'm sure there are rules for that, because this is a rather meaningful change in the status of a board member. You can't just decide that by majority, I guess. In short, what is the outcome of this process? Can the cabinet tell us more in its term, because the suggestion is that we should not take that risk? If we do want to take that risk by not participating in this share participation, it should at least be clear how it actually materialises. I'd like some clarity from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u12	Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u13	I have a question for Mr Vendrik, following on from his question to the Minister, and also following on from Mr Crone's question, which is a counterrio. If we did do this deal, is that board member guaranteed to remain a dependent board member? That was the question I was about to ask, Mr President, following on from Mr Crone's question. But perhaps Mr Vendrik can take that with him in his questioning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u14	I'll give you a term of your own in a few minutes. Mr. Vendrik, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u15	An excellent question from Mr Otten. Really brilliant. I'll make him mine and lead him to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet's intention to participate with 220 million euros of public money in an upcoming issue of Air France-KLM has raised numerous questions with the GroenLinks group, some of which were answered in writing last week and some orally yesterday. Thank you to the cabinet for that. I would also like to thank the state agent, Mr Kremers, for his work and for his insights which he wanted to share with us this morning. I think it is a good thing for the budgetary picture that it is and will continue to be for the Finance Committee which is working here to consider the 100 million which does not result in the payment of rights. This means that the $100 million can't be cashed. On balance, therefore, we are talking about a budgetary interest of the Dutch state of 320 million, which is just rounding off. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, three main points remain after these preparations. 1. The climate crisis and the role of aviation. 2. the business economic perspective for Air France-KLM and for KLM in particular. 3. The power and control of the state. Mr Crone will go into a few more details and I am happy to endorse them in advance. Mr. Chairman, a year ago, the International Energy Agency issued an important report: Net Zero by 2050. A comprehensive and meaningful piece of work aimed at providing the world with an insight into what is globally viable and necessary to cope with the climate crisis. I think it's all on the retina how serious that crisis is after a few weeks of 50 degrees in parts of Pakistan and India. It is one of the many terrifying examples of how the climate crisis is already materializing, while then the sums are somewhere between 1.1 and 1.2 degrees global temperature rise. What are we gonna do if that goes up to 2, 3 degrees? Two indications from this IEA report are relevant in this debate on KLM's stock issue and the participation of the Dutch State, the government's intention. With the aim of a maximum permissible temperature increase of 1,5 degree.................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's what the International Energy Agency says. 1.5 degree is already in the books, is already foreseen, is already reserved and is already funded. The air transport sector, which was the second finding of the IEA in that report, is far behind in technological development required to deal with climate change in time compared to all other sectors. The conclusion cannot be different from that public investment in aviation is justified only if it is part of a strong climate transition and a substantial and vigorous reduction in emissions from the sector. Mr. Chairman. That framework is again not on the table today, just like two years ago when we talked about the support operation for KLM. The standing Aeronautics Note, made by the previous cabinet, dates back to the last century: simply as much growth as possible in aviation and continue on the old path. Now is still the perspective that KLM needs to grow especially along that same line from the crisis: more, more, more. The 2018 Sustainable Aviation Agreement is not close to what is needed. It does not contain any hard reduction targets, as they are now imposed on all other sectors in the Netherlands and beyond. The CO ceiling for aviation, part of the last Rutte IV coalition agreement, needs to be further developed. The two reports by the state agent, Jeroen Kremers, show that the agreements in the Sustainable Aviation Agreement are still waiting for agreement on milestones and monitoring to determine whether progress is being made at all. That's four years after that. That really is not a serious achievement. My group has the impression so far that the climate crisis is not taken seriously by the aviation sector, including KLM. Where the provisions of the Sustainable Aviation Agreement, which in itself were not sufficient, have been reconfirmed in the 2020 support package, it is not possible to determine today whether KLM complies with them. There is no monitoring, there are no milestones, there is no plan. Mr President, that is not a sustainable path, both from the point of view of climate justice and everyone is responsible for their share of corporate social responsibility as well as for international principles of corporate social responsibility, which the Netherlands also embraced a long time ago, such as the Global Compact and international corporate social responsibility, OECD guidelines and so on. It is also, in fact, unsustainable from a sound economic perspective. In the case of aviation, too, investments must fit in with climate forecasts. Otherwise, see the report of the International Energy Agency "Beached assets are financed." It is already a phenomenal problem for the stability of the financial sector, for the robustness of the economy, to keep things going a little while in times of heavy transition. The last thing you have to do, so I say to this cabinet, is make it worse. My group does not have the impression that the current cabinet's proposal to put 20 million public money into Air France-KLM is appropriate. On the contrary, the new cabinet has increased the ambitions for national sectors to 55% to 60% CO reduction by 2030. We very much welcome that. This must have an impact on the aviation sector, including KLM! And in the Netherlands for KLM in the first place as the main airline at Schiphol Airport. I'm gonna ask the Cabinet for a response. Mr. Chairman. In many places in the reply, the Cabinet argues that participation in this issue serves the public interest. I am not asking the cabinet to describe that again for the first time. Is this the preservation of Schiphol's global top five position as an international hub, in which KLM plays a key role with Transavia? Or is it the other way around? Is the public interest supporting and protecting the French influence of KLM's current business model with a maximum number of international destinations and maximum growth? Why is that the public interest where this is concerned? And where is the overriding, so much more important public interest in fighting the climate crisis and the local viability here in the Netherlands around Schiphol? Mr. Chairman. Let's get crazy. Suppose the cabinet would say: the State prepares a package for pricing and sharp standards including CO ceiling for the sector, international farmers take care of it, makes their own national work and dismantles the fossil tax haven called aviation. And yes, it could also be part of that to ensure as much influence as possible through equity ownership in cooperation with the French government, whereby AF-KLM will be pushed into an extremely sustainable price, with a hard cap on CO-milestones, compliance with viability and so on. That might be an interesting motive, in line with the public interest in compliance, for acquiring shares in this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u16	Is this an appropriate time, Mr Vendrik, for an interruption by Mr Schalk? 'Cause I'm looking for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u17	One last sentence, Mr. Chairman. But I don't hear any of this from the cabinet saying and writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u18	Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the stock issue today. I understand that Mr Vendrik indicates that he is not going to help with the climate objectives. My question would be: what if this stock issue does not go ahead, so that the Dutch State does not participate, does that actually help the climate objectives? Or is that separate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u20	That is precisely what I have tried to explain in detail with that example. A meaningful discussion about an issue of shares that fits in with the proper implementation of the public interest calls for a good framework with real climate policy, including in the aviation sector, as this cabinet intends to do with all other sectors. Then we have a meaningful debate on the public interest of participation and on any emission. That is the sustainable logic of my group. We did that in 2020, and we are doing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u21	I'm trying to understand. May I make a concluding comment? I'll find out if I got it right. This means that it does not really matter whether or not there will be an issue of shares, if there is only one plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u22	That certainly matters, but I think it is important to clarify the priorities. That's what politics and government have to do. I have just argued that it seems that the cabinet is relying on a very narrow definition of what is actually the public interest here. I shall try to formulate this at the end of my speech a little more impregnating. In any case, we explicitly define this differently. I hope the difference with the cabinet is actually very small. That is why I particularly challenge the Minister of Finance, with a number of State participations, to formulate this explicitly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u23	Please continue your argument, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u24	I understand from what the Minister said yesterday, that she is preparing a new memorandum on state participations. I would ask her to explicitly include the sustainability challenge and the transition perspective and to develop as a guiding principle for the management of state participations, but also as part of the review framework that the Minister intends to develop for himself when entering into or expanding new or existing holdings. Mr. Chairman. In short, for all the state participations that I am talking about, they should contribute to the transition, that there is no new fossil financing and that control is regulated by the State, so that the conditions attached to it can also be realised. That is the guiding principle of public interest for my group. This would then have to be completed in more detail for each State participation. should be updated. I would like to hear the view of the Minister of Finance. I would appreciate a commitment on this point. Otherwise, we are going to help the Minister with a motion; that could be the case. Mr. Chairman. The state agent, Mr Kremers, has mentioned several times and also here in the First Chamber today that KLM needs to look for a new business model. There isn't. I ask the cabinet about this view of Mr Kremers and about the fact that KLM did not want to move on it. It strikes me in the answer that the cabinet actually declares this to be a matter for KLM and seems to leave it at that. I do not understand that, because I believe that the same note on state participation, from 2015, calls on the ministers concerned to make it possible, among other things, to make a reasonable return on public participation. That seems to me to stand or fall in line with a stable business model, otherwise you won't get there. Then why doesn't the cabinet make Kremers' recommendation his and doesn't it set it as a criterion for participation? Isn't that what that whole memorandum on state participation is all about? In the written reply and also last night, the cabinet claimed several times that this cannot be done now. There can be no conditions. But what is left of the public interest test in increasing this state participation? Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance states that there is a defensive investment to maintain influence and control. A lot has been said about that. We have just mentioned exactly what is meant in the last letter. But it is no longer a question of the great fear at the time that flights are being relocated to France? That has already been agreed. That deal's gonna stay, no matter what. That cannot be the reason for this participation. What, then, is the state's pressing interest in justifying this participation? I would ask the Minister once again to describe that precisely. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance mentioned the issue of influence and control as a motive for participation, a weak part of the cabinet's proposal. A part? It's the essence. That's what it's about. That's how I read the cabinet's ambition. Influence and control. The Minister of Finance himself qualifies this as a weak element. That's a weak foundation. So it's a weak proposal. In any case, until now, the cabinet has not been able to elaborate on the motif "preservation of influence," which, in its opinion, is the only reason for participation. So this is, as I see it, a proposal on the table which is essentially weak. I'd like a response. Quite a lot of evidence for the argument that you retain influence and control with over 9% is, frankly, not available in the recent past either. Maintaining participation in AF-KLM has not been a major success in recent years. Or can the cabinet confirm that today in its response? That question too has already been raised, but I note that there is no concrete evidence that the participation in the group of EUR 744 million in 2019 has brought that benefit of increased control and influence explicitly and provable. Also in the light of the current rate, which results in a substantial loss of book on the portfolio in the hands of the State, at least a sharp and clear answer should be given. I'd like a response. Let me turn to the 2020 support package. In particular, the conditions for that package allowed control of labour costs, cost savings and the approach to tax avoidance by pilots. Some of these conditions have been met, but some of them have not been met. Where costs have been saved earlier, the recent rise in wages may be out of the picture. Shouldn't that have consequences? How does the cabinet get KLM to respect the conditions? What does that mean for the further development of the aid that is still outstanding? And does the state really intend to maintain? Is the political will in the cabinet really to ensure that these agreements are kept? If that is not the case, what does it say about the significance of influence and control at the level of the group, to which the cabinet claims to strive with the participation in this stock issue? A final point concerning the standing support package. The agreements of the Sustainable Aviation Agreement of 2018 I already talked about it have been reconfirmed. They would be listed in the Framework Agreement of August 2020, which is confidential. But what will remain of compliance with this part of the agreements with KLM if the support package no longer applies? What happens then? What about the political will of the cabinet to maintain this "insufficient," yet rather important, climate and quality of life conditions? Mr President, concluding. The cabinet seems to choose to define KLM's business interest and in particular KLM's position within the group as a public interest. The real public interest is then turned into a business of the company. CO reduction and quality of life requirements, according to the cabinet, it is mainly the business of the company. An important condition for state participation, I told you, is a view on return. This includes a new business model. That too, the cabinet says, is a matter for the company. Mr. Chairman. This political hierarchy of interests and relationships is, in my opinion, indicative of the 100-year history of the intimate connection between KLM and the State. Beautiful books have been written about that. I don't think it's a model of sound administrative relations. Nor does it guarantee the public interests that really matter. That model is not really future-proof. I am counting on the Minister of Finance to put an end to this soon. Unfortunately, this does not fit in with the cabinet's proposals today. I would also like to see a Minister of Infrastructure and Water State who is calling every day from now on with the aviation industry and KLM to ask for progress on the deep transition that the sector needs. Does she want to be future-proof? This is also a question of sound economy, good investment and return. After 30 years of looking away, ignoring and miserable in this field, the aviation sector now needs a strong and self-conscious government that does not want to know about neighborhoods. Just as the government should do in contact with all sectors, all of which have their share in the transition. Without that government, there will not be much of this sustainable transition. And that is ultimately also bad news for the aviation sector, which in any case faces a difficult transition. Better today than tomorrow. We can't run anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Mr Crone has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u26	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. My thanks also to the rulers, but also to the officials who worked through the Ascension period in order to be able to send all the documents. I didn't mind, 'cause I was off on Ascension Day anyway, so I read them all. Since the key issue doesn't seem to have been reported, there was all the more reason for me that I just, with an apology, asked to suspend the debate for half an hour. I have also checked it all again: since 24 and 17 May there has not been any letter to us that there is a difference between dependent and independent members. That could be the key issue that determines the voting behaviour. The Minister replied with "instruction." She's from the diplomatic world. I've done that for two years. The word "instruction" is significant in the diplomatic world, because then you have the mandate of the government and you cannot enter or leave it, etc. So it's about something. I'll come back to that later. Unfortunately, however, it confirms the question, and I would also like to come back to it internally in the House of First Instance, whether we should do this again. Last Tuesday morning we received a letter: whether we want to vote for this evening. In the meantime, we didn't know when the House of Representatives would do that, what information we would get and whether there was still time to ask questions. For example, at 12.39 p.m., we received the four-hour debate report yesterday in the House of Representatives. We also received another crucial letter half an hour before the debate. I don't think we're gonna be able to hunt each other like this anymore. I think that is a very crucial question. The cabinet had a dependent representative there. So he read all the board pieces, including last Tuesday. You could have said much earlier: there will be an emission that we might be taking part in; but be aware, you will have to do it in eight days. Of course, you have made it clear that there might be an issue that was in all the newspapers, but not that we had to do it in eight days. I'm gonna quit now, because I want to have a good time, but we don't have to do this again. It is part of the almost sad spectacle in which we ended up with KLM and Schiphol. We were always at the top of the world, with both Schiphol and KLM, but the world doesn't see that anymore. We are always behind the facts now, 'we are in line', you can say 'because we are constantly being attacked by decisions and problems. All I keep hearing from KLM and Schiphol is "give us money," "we go on" and "competition at the lowest cost." But I don't hear vision. I hear words like "we're sustainable champions," but they don't do anything. There are no Milestones yet, let alone results. On this point, I would like to join Mr Vendrik. As you know, we agree on almost all points, especially on this point. So I don't have to do that. But does the extensive stock issue now increase our influence at Air France-KLM? Do we really get a vision? I'm not asking for nothing. Two years ago, we were here too, cornered by covid. Only after some hesitation did we then agree to that huge amount, because we thought: yes, it is covid. But we specifically asked your predecessors to come up with a vision as soon as possible. A vision such as "to remain the largest main carrier at the lowest cost" is not a vision. Come up with scenarios if you have to, so we can choose. None of that happened. I am so sorry that we lost two years with that. And the support package was quite a lot, because we have paid €240,000 per job, says the state agent. I think that everyone in the cultural sector would be happy if they were given 10%, i.e. €24,000 per job. We have spent huge sums of money, because we are talking about 3.5 billion, but I am also counting on the state agent to do so as well as NOW expenditure, tax delays and so on. And we're not at the end yet, because there's more coming. It had to be, because KLM was bankrupt in business and technical terms. Then you have to do something and that might be worth 6.5 billion. But then it's weird that the cabinet still hasn't put a vision on the table? State aid continues, but at the same time does not comply with the conditions of state aid. Everyone has already mentioned it and read it in the newspaper: 5% increase in wages. But there would be 15% cost reduction. The state agent said this morning: this was not reported to me in advance. So your representative could not say whether this fits within 15%. He confirmed that this morning. Have you been informed yourself about that 5%........................................................................................................................................................ I'm gonna use that word a lot now. Then they've all approved it. I'm totally for... 5% is obviously too low. People in the luggage cellar at the bottom should get 10%. Maybe that was decided today. But the people at the top have all of us here explicitly spoken to each other, the pilots, are already at the top of the benchmark of the international pilots' salaries. They should not receive +5% but -5%, so to speak. That's what we all agreed on here, but they don't do it. The conditions agreed with the cabinet are not met. One gets a lot of money and goes ahead, and the cabinet is behind the facts. My motto is from Alice in Wonderland, namely: if you don't know where you want to come out, you'll definitely come out somewhere else. Now it's Alice in the Netherlands. What is the government's view of where it wants to come out? That is why I have always asked for all kinds of measures, for example in the area of environmental and nuisance conditions; Vendrik has mentioned them. The public interest is also that a group of already privatised workers in commuting cannot fly for free, at the expense of the business, i.e. at the expense of the taxpayer, from abroad where the tax good is living. They haven't done anything yet. You don't have to wait for us to decide that, do you? Surely they could have said immediately: this will not be understood by the public? Many people, including state agents, rightly say that you also have the license to operate with society to observe. I repeat Mr Vendrik's question: why is that not yet settled? Our public interest is indeed very great, as we see it as a PvdA Group. There must be a network with a lot of international connections all over the world. That was always our strength. But we now have a network that is the second largest network in the world; I read that somewhere. Of course you don't have to. Why do we need the second largest network in the world? Would the third or fourth be good, too? That is why we have asked for a vision from the cabinet, a policy framework for quality network connections. You can say exactly: ten flights to New York is useful, but eight is also good. I'm just saying. Of course, that would help a lot. My question to the cabinet is: where is it? Does KLM, and by the way Schiphol, finally work on this? There are now 80% transfer passengers on flights. They don't pay. They cost money. They pay very little in landing rights and so on, but apparently they are needed to fill the planes. I understand that, because KLM does not use a social model, but a "maximum flying" model: the more, the better, and if things go wrong, the government pays. That's not in the public interest. Does the cabinet see a distinction between the public interest of a good hub or the model I keep hearing from KLM: the more flying, the better? That model is also going to break down in business because, as we know, the costs were always the lowest. Schiphol had the lowest costs for landing rights.................................................................................................................................................................................................... We're not the low-cost airport anymore. That includes the quality of KLM. So we can no longer grow at the lowest cost. So it's also running out of business. Do you also see that if this is the case, we're gonna have to come down next year? They will have no operational profit next year. I'm also asking you about the following. In the first quarter they also had no operating profit. Mr. Elbers is leaving. We all give him a nice goodbye, so he presents that the first quarter is profitable. But it's only profitable because he got the NOW grant and tax deferral. I told that to the state agent this morning. He'll take this into account in his report. But this means that there was no operational profit; there was loss. But for the taxpayer, a nice picture has been sketched out. It is a frame that has succeeded well and that stands on all sides. But if there is no operational profit, even now, is it there for the coming year? Or do we have to go back to being a government loser next year? My group is a little done with the fact that we have had to take decisions against the wall for two or two and a half years now without a coherent model including environmental objectives for the future. Whether Schiphol and KLM should be larger or smaller, we can then decide. Mr. Chairman. The key question now is, of course, whether the cabinet buys extra control with that 9%. So my first question is about the following. The other shareholders who are new, CMA CGM, invest. Apparently, they'll get a board member. I wonder if they'll get a dependent or independent board member. I have to repeat that word. After all, I have read it: there is nothing in the previous letters. Would it then be the case that they have a dependent position and that we become independent? I thought we should've known this before. Did the cabinet talk to the other shareholders? We're on the board, so why don't you ask who's gonna join us? My follow-up question is: why are Chinese Airlines and Delta going to water down? They may have a greater interest than we do in that network. Apparently, they don't mind watering down. Did you talk to them? By the way, is it true that a container company is allowed to say that I am buying shares? Or should a Danish container company also have said: I also want to have shares with Air France-KLM? They're very legitimate questions. We haven't had much time to write them all down. By the way, in the letters, the cabinet did not exchange a single word about those other shareholders, which I thought was a sloppy thing to say. Shouldn't we have known? Because when you're in a business, you want to know who your partners are. But let's stay happy; we'll probably get an answer later. What's their strategy? Or is this just French industrial policy? You sit around the table and you don't take care of anything formally, because you can't, but you agree with each other: the container company and the maintenance company get in, because we need money and then we're rid of those governments; and in return you get the CEO on the board. Mr. Chairman. I come to a conclusion, but of course that will be very difficult. My reasoning followed literally from last week's cabinet letter. What did the cabinet say last week in the letter of May 24 on page 3? "With a 9.3% stake, the Dutch State cannot push through or block decisions. However, the Dutch State has the right to vote relating to this interest." That's obvious, in the ava. But the importance is mainly the information position, writes the cabinet. That doesn't say a word at all that we had an instructional right with a dependent board member. I haven't figured that out for an hour. There's nothing left in it that we're gonna be an independent board member again and we're gonna be at a distance. Surely the word "information position" is a much weaker word than "dependent board member," someone who can get instructions from the Dutch government, and that the Dutch government can get all the documents in advance? So I really want to make it quite clear on that point, now that the Minister has just confirmed, for which I thank you, that we have read this well in the letter. Why didn't you write that down on 24 May or earlier, and we need to hear this now, half an hour before the debate? 'Cause that's the key question. Do we get more control with those shares than we already had or not? Of course, that wasn't a big deal. But if watering doesn't last, there's no need to buy stock either. So this is, of course, a very crucial question for me and my group. This must be clear, including in the legal sense. Has it been discussed with the other shareholders? Has it been discussed with the French state? Because perhaps we should agree that Prime Minister Rutte is agreeing with Macron and, of course, with the trade ministers that we are Air France's biggest partner in the group, with a great airport with slots that they can never take away, and that it should be in the French interest that we remain on the board in a dependent position, even if we have zero percent, regardless of our share. After all, we didn't have that much before 2019. Because that is how you have to be in the European spirit. We're a big corporation together. We are not a little daughter of Air France, but an important partner in the group, so you should just get a dependent board member.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u27	Mr. Crone, you are now...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u28	Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with that, I think, but I had to change some things spontaneously in response to the information I just received. I did it anyway, two minutes past. I'll never do it again, but then the cabinet will have to send the documents sooner. Then let's make that deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u29	You shouldn't have said that, because now everyone's gonna exceed two minutes. Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. For weeks, if not months, we read all about an imminent purchase of Air France-KLM shares in the newspaper; it has just been recalled by the previous speaker. Yet nothing happens in public, in the public decision-making process, all this time. We are informed confidentially, but much of what we read there and therefore are not allowed to use publicly, we also read more or less in the newspaper. And then all of a sudden it's happening and we have to take a decision on it with steam and boiling water, within eight days. It's been said as a parliament. Like the previous speaker, I am not happy with that. Couldn't have done otherwise, I'm asking the Minister. I thought this was in preparation a long time ago. Then why does it have to be within a week, the whole parliamentary process? Mr. Chairman. The SP Group considers the aviation sector to be of social importance. It is important for our economy, as an essential part of our national infrastructure, and for employment: for the many men and women working at KLM and at Schiphol. But that does not mean the larger the KLM and the larger the aviation sector, the better, on the contrary. The social interest lies primarily in an aviation that is future-proof and therefore sustainable. This means fewer flights, significantly fewer flights and, above all, fewer transfer passengers. Indeed, this calls for a very sharp strategy in relation to the transition exercise that exists for a sector that really contributes to the climate objectives and at the same time takes good care of its employees, not so much for the people at the top, because it is being taken care of more than well, but for the people at the workplace. KLM, Air France-KLM, as far as my group is concerned, has been seriously failing for a long time now. Mr. Chairman. My group did not support the aid package of 3.4 billion at the time, because with a loan and guarantees the Dutch State had no or too little control. However, transfer money and risk that the loan will not be repaid, but no direct control. The downside, but not the upside. The burden, but not the potential lusts. There were conditions at the time, for example as regards sustainability and cost reduction, but they were quite weak and, to a good extent, old wine in new bags. However, according to the state agent, KLM also fails to comply with those limited conditions. What lessons does the Minister draw from this? Does this call for intervention and if so, in what way? The state agent cannot maintain, only supervise, the minister can maintain. Does the Minister agree with my group that it is extremely regrettable that KLM should simply ignore these agreements? Has she already addressed the KLM summit and if so, what was the reaction? The letter from the state agent states that he had not been informed in advance of the general increase of 5%; Mr Crone has already mentioned it. It concerns not only higher wages for the lower scales of wages, but also for the best-paid collective labour force. Apart from that and from what you think, it's not in line with the agreements. If KLM really thinks that some of the wages or wages of some of the employees should be raised, why didn't we first consult with the state agent or the minister? Maybe something would have been possible after all. Once again, as far as my group is concerned, the conditions of employment of the lowest paid should certainly be improved. But KLM just did this behind the back of the minister and the state agent. That's no way to do it, is it? I'd like a response from the Minister. In a new pilot-cao, which has not yet been established, which also violates the conditions, the state agent points out that KLM's top-paid employees are also making considerable structural progress. We're talking about people who sometimes make a few tons. Of course, the continued tax avoidance of KLM pilots is also a thorn in the eye of my group. Tons earn and still avoid tax, while the pants of the company that pays your salary are held up by the State. When is this gonna end? That's how I'm gonna ask the Minister. And what guarantees are there that KLM will comply with the conditions in the future? The state agent's report makes it clear that my group is not directly confident that participation in this stock issue will directly strengthen the State's position when it comes to pushing KLM in the right direction. Indeed, no new conditions for KLM are attached to this purchase, which is regarded as a market transaction. That doesn't increase our enthusiasm. Mr. Chairman. At the same time, in the debate on the aid package, we found the expansion of state participation, and hence control, a better way forward. The Dutch State should be better able to enforce the conditions and make KLM a future-proof, sustainable and social company. This means a company that operates fewer flights, especially transfer flights. This means a company that operates less night flights, so that there is much less noise pollution for the residents as is still the case today. If you go through that line, nationalization would be the most obvious thing. That is what I argued at the time in the debate on the support package. Because if there is a public interest in the game and therefore KLM should not go bankrupt, then it should not be left to the market either. However, that would ultimately mean detaching KLM from Air France. The problem, of course, is, even now, that of course, mainly the French. Every time it is said that this is not an option. KLM would not be able to pass on as an independent company, even as a state-owned company. But can the Minister go into this again? Why does she think this is really impossible? Or could it be under conditions and, if so, what do these conditions look like? But it is not a question of nationalisation, or even of a step in that direction, in the legislative proposal before us or in the supplementary budget before us. Nor is it a question of increasing the share of the Dutch State in the capital of the parent company. It is only about maintaining it, percentagely. This purchase will prevent our interest from watering down from about 9% to 2%. That costs the State and the taxpayer 220 million. The question is, what exactly are we going to get in return for that? That question has not yet been fully answered by my group. How much influence does it give us, to be precise, 9.3%? It was just a big deal about that. In any case, real perseverance or veto power does not give it. We have read that this is an information position. And recently we know: it's about something more, because it's also about a more driving role of what is a "State dependent board member," which can also give instructions. However, I would like to join with previous speakers and questions that have been raised earlier on this point. I also agree with Mr Otten's question. He asked, "Is it the other way around?" If we do retain that 9.3%, is that board member guaranteed to depend on the State? In the meantime, it is clear what the French state will get in return. If I understand correctly, 75% of the 220 million will be transferred directly to the French State Treasury by Air France-KLM using the capital raised to repay a loan from the French State. Can the Minister answer the question as to how it regards the French state interest here against that of the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Once again, my group sees the potential public interest, i.e. the public interest of sustainable national aviation. But how exactly are we going to ensure that public interest? How's the Minister gonna do that? If we vote here tonight, or perhaps before midnight, by a majority in favour of participating in this stock issue, how is the Dutch State going to do, how are we going to use the possession of those 9.3% of the shares to really promote that public interest better? How are we going to do this better than before, through a more active shareholdership? In my group's view, the government has so far shown too little and left too much behind. Mr. Chairman. Two motions from my party were adopted in the House of Representatives this afternoon. One of these motions calls for that more active shareholdership that I am talking about here. The motion asks the government in particular to work as a shareholder to improve working conditions in the workplace, rather than for more bonuses at the top again. And the government is asked to work for a substantially lower workload at KLM. My group is very curious as to how the Minister is going to implement this motion. Given the way in which KLM failed to comply with the conditions of the previous state aid, we are sceptical. Can the Minister, Mr KLM, now move to take better care of the interests of the workers? And what about sustainability and the reduction of CO emissions towards 2030? Are we really going to take faster steps in this direction? And how will these agreements become enforceable? How is the Minister going to ensure that the agreed "milestones' milestones in good Dutch "the agreed milestones' are actually achieved in this area? How is the Dutch State going to play its role as a "large shareholder" - that remains the Netherlands' real commitment to this 9.3%? For my group, that depends a lot. To what extent can we actually pay the government for that? I therefore look forward to the Ministers' answers with great interest. My group will then come to a final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Otten. He is speaking on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u32	Mr. Chairman. Water or not water, that's the question, to paraphrase Shakespeare. That is the question we have to decide on in the First Chamber as a matter of urgency. Is the Dutch State participating in this claim emission of Air France-KLM, or are we not? This morning we had a constructive session with the state agent, Mr Kremers, who explained a few things to us about the course of events. Mr. Chairman. Should the Dutch State spend a sloppy EUR 210 million to maintain the current 9.3% state interest in Air France-KLM, or should we not? Should we ignore this issue, so that we do not spend EUR 210 million, but receive EUR 100 million in the treasury? As you, at least some of you, may know, I have been working for 30 years in the field of corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions at home and abroad. Therefore, our group has followed KLM's financial rescue operation from the purchase of the very expensive package by the man of 744 million, of which 600 million has since evaporated, with even more than normal interest. Mr. Chairman. Air France-KLM has organised a so-called claim issue. How does that work, a claim emission like that? The Dutch State now has exactly 60 million shares of the total 642 million existing shares in the holding company. That's 9.3%. All existing shareholders of Air France-KLM now receive one claim for each share. The Netherlands has 60 million shares and thus receives 60 million claims. Each claim gives the right to purchase three new shares of Air France-KLM at the fixed price of €1.17 per new share. The Netherlands can therefore buy three times 60 million, i.e. 180 million, new shares for €1.17 per share. That is how you come up with the EUR 210 million, I think. I sometimes hear other amounts. 220 has also passed by, but maybe that has another cause. These claims have been dealt separately on the stock exchange since last week and are therefore worth money. A claim is, as it were, a call option on three shares of Air France-KLM with an exercise price of €1.17 per share. These claims are worth around €1.60 per claim today at the fair. It is fluctuating, also as a result of the debate here in The Hague. That's about 60 million claims, grab him, 100 million euros in claim value for the Dutch state. So there is also an option to ignore this issue, to water down instead and to receive 100 million by selling the claims on the stock exchange. That's the choice Delta and China Eastern have made. They have decided to water down and not stop new money in shares of the holding company Air France-KLM. Mr. Chairman. During the outbreak of the corona crisis in spring 2020, our group in the First Chamber, but also in separate talks with the minister's predecessor at the Ministry of Finance, went through this matter extensively with the minister's predecessor. At that time, we insisted that the Netherlands should be the first priority to maintain the initiative vis-à-vis the French authorities and not go behind the facts. We did this partly in view of my own experience in negotiating with large French state-owned companies. Our advice was therefore to extend the holding company's interest to around 29% after the very expensive purchase by Minister Hoekstra of the 14% stake for 744 million in the spring of 2020. That would have been the time to fully safeguard the interests of the Dutch State and the interests of KLM. The shares of Air France-KLM weren't worth much at the time. The very expensive purchase of Hoekstra in 2019 could have been slightly corrected by buying a larger package not at €12.40, but at a rate of between €1 and €2 at that time. But unfortunately, our advice that we then brought to the attention of the Ministry in June 2020 through input from the Finance Commission was not followed. You can find the relevant document on my Twitter account, Hendrikotten3. Instead, a billion-dollar package of loans for KLM was rigged, which presents a similar financial risk to the Dutch State, but without financial upside and without control. From that moment on, from this choice in the summer of 2020, the Dutch State is behind the facts and the French. There should have been a bust at the time. When Air France-KLM was released last year, the Netherlands decided to water down and not participate. Now they want to get back in the game. As far as our group is concerned, this seems to be an inimitable financial yo-yo policy of the Dutch State. What do they want? Do they want it or do they not want it? However, as a result of the strategic choices made by the Cabinet in 2020, with the disadvantages that we warned against when dealing with the support packages for KLM, at the time in the Knight's Room, this situation is not really going to be resolved. Unfortunately for the Dutch state, the French state did make the right choices and increased the importance to 29%. And why is that 29% important? Because if you go over 30% at a listed company, you have to make an offer on the whole company. So if you have 29.9%, you have the optimal control. 'Cause with one share in it, you can turn things around. Hence our advice: go to 29. But the French did. Mr. Chairman. We are now in a typically Dutch, half-hearted polder-compromise situation that nobody really needs, and which has no real plan of action behind it. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers: what is the plan? Unfortunately, it can't be more Dutch than this. In addition to option one, to invest 210 million to maintain the 9.3%, so actually add 210 million on top of the existing exposure, we have option two not to, and collect the 100 million for the claims. But there is also a third option, which has so far been underexposed. I have made a calculation to arrive at a better solution for the Dutch State in the long term. It means that the State does not water down or end up with a position without actual influence. Because in our view that is what the emission that is now before us is doing. This solution also brings with it much more upside for the taxpayer, and a much greater influence in the real board of Air France-KLM. Because there are several boards, but the real board is the board we just received the minister's document about. That's where the real decisions are made. That's what the state agent said in our conversation this morning: there's a lot of decision-making going on in that board and not in the Netherlands. In the end, of course, it's about this topboard. We need to be there, preferably with a board member who can also communicate with the government. Mr. Chairman. The solution is as follows. The claim trade runs until next week, until June 7th. The Dutch State could also do something with this and, according to our calculation, could buy 168 million additional claims for around €1.60 per claim. Then you talk about about about 270 million euros. This gives the State the right to buy around 505 million shares in the holding company for €1.17 per share. Then you have a total investment for the State of about EUR 770 million, but in a cheap way we have exactly the same position in the holding company as the French state. Then the Netherlands can do business with the French on an equal footing. Such a transaction would undoubtedly be welcomed by KLM. As part of this solution, the existing loans and guarantees from the State to KLM, which now total EUR 3 billion, of which only a small part has been drawn by KLM... KLM had only raised 900 million out of 3 billion and KLM has already repaid over 300 million of them. So after two years, there's only 600 million left in that facility. Apparently KLM doesn't really need that 3 billion after all. Instead of increasing the exposure on Air France-KLM and on KLM as a State now, our proposal would therefore be to reduce it or at least to exchange part of it in shares in the holding company, for which you also get control and onside. Then the Netherlands really has something to say and the Netherlands has the upside as the Air France-KLM group recovers after the release and after the corona pandemic. In short, Mr President, our advice to Minister Kaag is: do it right or do not do it. Make sure you really have meaningful influence on the way things are going at KLM. Pay a little more if necessary, also to restore the wrong strategic choices from the past. Or don't, sell the claims for 100 million, settle for a smaller share of the holding company and let the blue swan fly away. We would like to hear the vision of the cabinet. Then we will decide our final judgment. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Otten. That'll get you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u36	I have a clarification question. Mr Otten has indicated a third way, I shall say. Does Mr Otten realize that if the third road were to be taken by the cabinet, we would have to stop the debate now, and I think that there should be a novelle? Is that feasible? That is an important question for the moment, I think, because it is open until 7 June, I believe. The other question I have with me is as follows. Imagine if that route wasn't taken now. Do I understand from Mr Otten's words that he puts the option of watering over the option of keeping the importance as it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u37	We are very businesslike, I say to Mr Schalk. From a purely business point of view, you'd say watered down. Delta and China Eastern also made that calculation. That's what they do. There are, of course, specific aspects for the Netherlands, the economy and so on, which those airlines do not have. There's a difference. We think the current package... Look, it is watered down and little influence, or not watered down and also very little influence. Because it's very insecure. I think there's a board of 19 people. There are therefore two or three Dutch, one independent and one dependent. Who's to say that the board isn't being reshuffled after this release? We'll lose that influence, too. So we don't have those guarantees. That's why our advice is: do it right or don't do it, and look at it in its entirety. Of course, it's a combination. The financing of this group is a combination of equity and debt. We have now chosen debt. We have discussed this extensively with Mr Crone, I remember. He was also of the opinion that that was a bit of a separate choice. Because you do have a lot of risk for a company that actually wasn't technically in place at that stage; let me put it this way. Then you take a risk with a loan, which is basically the same risk as with shares, because if a company goes bankrupt, you lose your loan too. But you don't have the upside and no control. The French have made that choice differently. They've thought a lot more ahead. Maybe there was some sort of traumatic experience at Finance because of the expensive investment of 744 million that evaporated so quickly, but yes, then you should deal with it. Then you would have had the chance to put that purchase price for a much larger package at a much lower level. The second 14% had cost only 200 million or 300 million, while the first 14% had cost almost 800 million. So you would have had a better position, I say to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u38	The novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u39	De novelle... yes, we will first hear what the cabinet thinks of that. As far as the novelle is concerned, that is why I also give the option of reducing that facility, because KLM now uses only 600 million of 3 billion. Then why do we still have that $3 billion facility? Build that up. I'd like to hear the government's overall picture. How does one see this in its totality with equity and debt? Of course, we should not have emissions completed next week and KLM withdraws just as 2.5 billion from that facility. They could basically do that. And that might go to France; I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u40	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u41	Finally, Mr President. I will not go into that novelle again, because I assume that the government will respond to it in a moment. Let me return to the importance of the matter and those two companies which are now abandoning emissions. I heard Mr Otten say that there is a difference between the Dutch interest and the importance of those two other companies. Is that going to weigh for him or is he saying, "Well, no, that's all one pot of wet"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u42	Well, no, I'm saying that there are other interests for the Netherlands than just financial interests. Of course, that is not the case with these companies. We have a network with KLM. We have jobs and you name it. We have the network for economics and accessibility. Those companies make a purely financial assessment. So in that sense, it's different for us. But then I would say: those interests are very big......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then don't do it half-heartedly, with a little bit of it but that you don't really have anything to say. So that would be my answer to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u43	I would ask Minister Kaag to listen to Mr Otten, because you can see that Mr Hoekstra has not done so and what its effects are. In my speech at the end of the day, I will comment on comments made by colleagues. But I would also like to ask Mr Otten a question. Is Mr Otten aware that Air France was slightly larger than the KLM at the time? And that France is also slightly larger than the Netherlands? Do you consider that to be appropriate in an equal share of the holding company of 29.3%? I don't think that's a law of Medes and Persians yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u44	Is it known to Mr Van Ballekom, I would ask, that KLM has been structurally a lot more profitable than Air France for years? Yes, you're aware of that? That will partially eliminate that effect of yours. You can also see that KLM will recover soon after all. KLM was, of course, donated to the French for a reasonable price, while maintaining its own identity, but it operated relatively better and more efficiently than Air France.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u45	So at the moment Air France in the holding company is the same size as the KLM?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u46	No, I'm not saying that, but you should also look at EBITDA and of course there are all kinds of other standards. But that doesn't mean that because Air France is bigger, the Dutch state always has to play the second violin compared to the French state? I conclude that that is your reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u47	Mr. Van Ballekom, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u48	I just said it wasn't a law of Meden...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u49	Because the country is bigger, does the share have to be larger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u50	You shouldn't be mixed up, both of you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ballekom for his final question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u51	I have said that it is not a law of Meden and Persians and that consideration should be given to the contribution made at that time. It is not at all said that 29.3 is a good ratio. I just wanted to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u52	I fully agree with Mr Van Ballekom that it is absolutely not a law of Meden and Persians. Of course, it also changes according to the situation. Only, when Minister Hoekstra's investment turned out very badly, no one was likely to have anticipated that corona would come so quickly... he should have acted to the new reality, i.e. buying up at a very cheap rate, in order to limit the damage. It's actually a little counter-intuitive that you buy to limit the loss. But he should have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u53	A little bit back in time can't hurt. I do that a lot, as you've heard. At the time, when KLM had absolutely no financial and commercial future, KLM was faced with the choice of being taken over, eaten, for example, by British Airways. Lufthansa wasn't really in the picture anymore, I think; rather perhaps. Do you recognize that Air France, whatever you may say from what happened after 2004, has been generously a bit of a French word; you can also say that KLM has dealt with KLM in a rather royal way? They themselves saw how profitable KLM became again, unlike Air France. It is a marriage that is complicated, but because of its complexity it also has its own strength. What do you think of the choice KLM made for Air France and not British Airways? I think that KLM would no longer exist as an independent company under the British flag, apart from Brexit, which might have made this even more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u54	Mr. Otten, please give me a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u55	A brief answer? I can give that to Mr Van Rooijen. The KLM had a very unfortunate alliance history in the 1990s. First with British Airways in 1991: that went wrong. That would probably have been the best solution after all. Then a joint venture with SAS and Swissair. Then came the project Alcazar. That too became a prayer without end. Then came the Second Gulf War and there weren't many options left. Then they fled into the arms of Air France. What I hear from people from KLM, from pilots, is that it's operating pretty well. What we also said in the debate in 2020 is that it is not primarily a question of maximizing profits, but of minimising losses. You can look at it all; we discussed it extensively at that time. It should have been structured differently in that situation. It's not a law of Medes and Persians, but it's set in situ. As far as we are concerned, a kind of trauma of that first deal in 2019 made a suboptimal choice in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u56	Mr Otten spoke of another option at the time. I've been involved. That was indeed Alcazar. It was all round until Swissair said: we really want to have the toughest board position with the chairman of the board. That's what it's all about. You can't blame KLM for that. I have another question for Mr Otten. We understand from the documents that, on the basis of the conditions laid down by the Commission, the French State must reduce its voting rights to 14 within a certain period of 28 years. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u57	Well, we could mirror that, too. I keep hearing the Minister say: we are the second shareholder. As if there's some kind of pecking order: you have the French state, we're second with 9.3% and then you have the CMA club, which has 9%. The idea is: as number two I have more to say than number three. I don't think that's how it works. I think Mr Van Rooijen is also experienced enough to know that this is not in order of who just has something more than another. You need to take good care of that governance. And you said it yourself: it went wrong with that alliance with Swissair. That went bankrupt later on, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u58	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u59	Yes, Chairman, finally. From the documents we have understood that because of the double counting after a certain period, the voting rights of the Dutch State go from 9.3% to generous 10%. In that respect, we must count our blessings. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u60	Yeah, but 9.3% or 10% or 8.5% doesn't really matter. We don't even know what the position is in the future... at least we're very curious about the Minister's answer. That is why I asked this question through Mr Vendrik: if we do this transaction with this issue, is it guaranteed that we will keep that influential person in the board of directors, in the top-board? Or can that be changed after the deal? I have worked a lot with French telecoms companies and so on who have the same corporate culture as Air France. It's all very technocratic. I can assure you, Mr Van Rooijen, that there is a bigger plan there. That's completely thought out and worked out. And we haven't seen all of that. The Dutch are traders who often do things a bit on feeling. They shoot a little more from the hip, but the French have a bigger plan. I think we are at great risk of being devoured in that larger plan. Let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u62	Hence our third option, but we are very curious about the answers, the other speakers and the vision of the cabinet. Then we shall pass a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u63	Which brings us to the Animal Party, Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the interruptions by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Van Ballekom. That gave me time to go outside for a little while to consult a helpline. I had to improvise on the letter, so I'm gonna look up something. Mr. Chairman. We received a letter shortly before this debate following my request last night for information on governance. According to that letter, the Netherlands has had a member of the Air France-KLM board, depending on the State, since 2019. My first question concerns that. Insider trading in and out of the Netherlands is a crime according to the Financial Supervision Act. This also applies to selective disclosure and the selective wristing of shareholders by an insider, the so-called "tip ban." Can the Minister now explain how the sharing of information and the selective wrists by her dependent man in Paris... we have heard just before this debate exactly who that is and her proposed transaction is related to this? Even those in favour of this Chamber will not want to incite the Minister to commit a crime, because that too is a criminal offence. Most of the money goes to the repayment of a loan from the French state. The Minister said that as a shareholder, she has no influence on the destination of the money that comes in from the stock issue. Of course, that is not possible with the percentage she hopes to have. But before she makes that purchase, she can make conditions, can't she? We're in that timing now. Does the Minister consider the repayment of a loan from the French State with, among other things, Dutch taxpayers' money a good destination? If so, can she explain why? In advance, as a prospective buyer, did she impose conditions on the destination of the money through her stromand? "Stroman" I say more unkind than I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u65	I couldn't sit down anyway. Does Mrs. Prast now indicate that a felony is being committed by the board member? If she is, I think she should just press charges. Now we are all faced with the fact that those who are so in favour would also be jointly responsible for a crime. That was a little too fast for me. Maybe I misunderstood. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u66	I asked a question so that we can be sure that it is allowed under Dutch law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u67	Okay. Then I'm very curious about the answer. I think Mrs Prast also knows that there is also a French law and that we are dealing with it. We're gonna hear that. So it's not already claimed to be a crime, but you're wondering if it's a crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u68	It was not a rhetorical question, if that is what Mr Schalk means. That Financial Supervision Act talks about trade from the Netherlands. French legislation may be different. I don't know. I don't know if that's relevant. I like to be reassured. Let me put it this way. The minister, like her predecessor as shareholder, voted against granting a million-dollar bonus for the top man of the loss-making company. The payment of this bonus by repayment of a loan from the French State is, if this bill is accepted, also made possible, brought closer by the Dutch taxpayer. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister on this, also in view of her vote against and her predecessor's. The shareholders' meeting of Air France-KLM has appointed the CEO of CMA CGM, I would like to mention a "container company" as a member of Air France-KLM's board on condition that its company buys 9% of the shares. That's where the shareholders' meeting at "What was it?" The vote will take place on 24 May. How does the Minister look at this appointment from a governance perspective and will it now be an independent or a dependent Commissioner? France has rules. 50% must be independent. So that's relevant, I think. Does CMA CGM have the right to extend the share ownership to more than 9.3%? I believe that it should remain below 10% and thus reject the Netherlands from second place? If so, how does the Minister estimate that opportunity? One final question about CMA CGM. How does the Minister look at the accusation against that company that it's doing greenwashing? Mr. Chairman. I'm going over to the why of that influence. Given the price evolution of the share, the State paid afterwards around EUR 0.5 billion for the influence over the past three and a half years. Of course you can say that that course may have been covid influenced. On the other hand, investors look to the future and not the past. The price reflects market expectations. If we were to buy the shares we bought then, we would have lost much less money. Half a billion less, I think. Can the Minister specifically mention three things that are really different at Air France-KLM because of this expensive influence? The Minister has already said that she can't make a calculation. She called it "metric" yesterday, I believe, with a beautiful word. I do not need to hear euros, but I would like to hear concrete examples. "It has become more sustainable" is not concrete enough for me. In 2019, Minister Hoekstra mentioned securing Dutch public interest, maintaining Schiphol as a job engine, influencing the strategy and contributing to a healthy Air France-KLM as reasons for the purchase of shares worth three-quarters billion euros. The current Minister is now explicitly adding sustainability to this. To begin with, I assume that the Minister with sustainability is not primarily focused on financial sustainability, because "that's healthy" implies that already, but on climate, environment, preservation of life on earth as we know it now, and perhaps we can also call it "wide prosperity." Is that what you're talking about? If so, why does the cabinet now want to achieve these goals through this indirect, expensive and uncertain route, while the cabinet has the tools to achieve these goals itself, without the goodwill of all kinds of others? And not only with Air KLM, but across the board. If the government is serious about the climate, it will have to take measures that are detrimental to airlines. Even if Air France-KLM is going to fly with economical devices, a higher CO price, excise duty on fuel, the use on other transport such as the train at shorter distances within Europe will hurt the company. How do the ministers intend to deal with these conflicting goals with a healthy Air France-KLM and a healthy planet? Can the Minister reflect on Erasmus University's conclusion that Air France-KLM is financially unable to withstand effective climate policy? Since the previous stock purchase, according to the previous Minister of Finance, a black swan, but according to experts, arrived: a zoonoses pandemic. We have seen the consequences for aviation and for KLM, including the costs for taxpayers in the form of all kinds of aid. According to zoonoses scientists, it is not the question whether but when the next zoonoses pandemic will occur. According to the ministers, should Air France-KLM prepare for another zoonoses, including financially? Or is the company allowed to let that go and then have to pay the taxpayer again? A public interest is a public interest that is not sufficiently served by the market and therefore justifies public intervention. Known examples are street lanterns, reducing noise, scientific research, a sound financial system, public health, a healthy climate, maintaining life on the planet as we know it now. When a large bank, the heart and blood vessels of society, threatens to fall, it drags the whole economy along. This justifies preventive government intervention, licensing and prudential supervision, including capital requirements to prevent failure and resolution, introduced after 2008, in order to prevent the taking of the economy on board. The group of the Party for Animals likes to hear from the minister what exactly is the public interest that is not served enough if the Dutch State does not buy Air France-KLM shares and why that public interest, after deduction of the public damage mentioned above, is positive in the eyes of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Schiphol as a runway engine. We hear it coming over and over again. A lot of people talk after each other. What about that, according to people who know it? Or should I say, do you know about it? There must be a correlation between economic growth and the size of Schiphol. There is also a correlation between daily pasta eating and being Catholic. The interesting question is, of course, causality. Does it indeed run from Schiphol to growth, towards employment? A study published in 2015 on behalf of the Transport and Water State Department, which was then still called "Schiphol's job as a job engine," was written: in the early stage of economic development, connecting to the aviation network could boost it. In a further phase, I still quote: 'It is the economy that boosts the demand for aviation and that in turn leads to the growth of the network and the number of destinations, inverse causality if you continue to develop.' There we are, with Schiphol, with the Netherlands, with Amsterdam? It's not a peripheral airport. Also later studies by experts are many, economists and people who know about infrastructure conclude that the job engine and mainport story has long become obsolete. On what basis do the ministers base the idea that the correlation mentioned is a causality, moving from Schiphol to growth? Schiphol charges lower fares for switching passengers than for other passengers and the transfer passenger does not pay any flight tax. That's good for KLM, because KLM is the only company in Schiphol with switchpers. How does the Minister view this subsidy from Dutch travellers to transferrs? And that is precisely because the switch to Schiphol, which only offers KLM, leads to additional pollution and global warming. And then I compare it to direct flights from another destination to the final destination. What is the extent of these harmful effects? How does it fit to favour and thereby encourage switching in a policy aimed at sustainability and "polluter pays"? Mr. Chairman. I am thinking, in a healthy Air France-KLM, of a sustainable income model, no need for state aid, paying taxes properly in time, having investor confidence, not violating the law with price agreements, a civilised personnel policy, not misleading consumers, contributing to the broad prosperity and not to the downfall of current life on the planet. I see a company that has an outdated business model, a tax debt, poor human resources policy, which has recently been challenged by the Advertising Code Commission for misleading sustainability claims and with a price falling after last week's stock issue announcement. I'm closing up, Mr. Chairman. As colleagues have said, today is not about 220 million, but about 320 million taxpayers' money. This will also allow you to pursue other policies, policies that bring climate goals closer, policies that do not diminish but increase broad prosperity, policies in the interests of future generations. My final question to the ministers is why the cabinet does not choose to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I call Mr Van Strien on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 30 September 2003, the merger was concluded between Air France and the Royal Air Company KLM. An entirely new structure was created with a new holding company, Air France-KLM, consisting of the two airlines, KLM and Air France, including a number of regional and budget companies. I was wondering why KLM was actually merged with Air France at the time. No matter how long you're looking, as a reason you keep finding: it's good, because it's good. For example, 'KLM is essential for the functioning of Schiphol as an international traffic hub of allure and thus for the Dutch economy' or 'KLM has at least 32,000 employees and is therefore important for the economy'. They're truths like a cow, but no arguments as to why the merger was a good idea. On the question of why this merger was such a good idea, I would like a sound answer from the government. I ask for this answer to be combined with the answer to the question whether that merger has demonstrated what was expected of it at the time. I do see the answer to these two questions as essential for the immediate future of KLM and for the question of whether we should go further in the current structure. It may be much more interesting to finally try to separate KLM from the current structure. I would like a response from the ministers. Another question to which I would like to have an answer: this question is directly linked to the previous questions on the participation of the French CMA CGM up to a maximum of 9% in the currently planned emissions. My question to the Minister is: to what extent does this de facto increase the influence of the French state? I'm asking because this is a very French company. CGM was even a French state company until several decades ago. CMA CGM may also appoint one board member on the board of directors of the aviation group. This seems to me to be a real dilution of control for the Dutch State, even though participation in the claim issue remains the same as the Dutch State's share. Mr. Chairman. That's one side of the coin. On the other hand, there are apparently sufficient private investors who want to subscribe to the issue and that there are accompanying banks that guarantee the amount not collected. Although somewhat reassuring, the subscription to the issue does not, at first glance, look directly like an offer that you cannot ignore. For example, Air France-KLM's equity remains negative even after this emission. This means that in the future, the Minister confirmed that new equity issues have not been excluded before, leading to further dilution. Also disposal of parts is possible. On the Internet, for example, I read about the exclusive calls Air France-KLM claims to have made with the private equity company Apollo for a capital injection of 500 million for one of its engineering and maintenance units. This capital injection also seems to imply that this important component is either divested or at least used as collateral. Apparently, anything is possible. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Of course, airlines have been hit by the corona pandemic that made air travel, especially international air travel, virtually impossible for a while. Even after lifting the strictest restrictions for travellers, tickets were initially hardly sold. However, all of this seems to be turning around, in such a way that Schiphol does not know what to do with it and is now shamefully failing. It is the billions of losses from that corona period that, as has been said, gave Air France-KLM negative equity. The PVV assumes that the world must turn around again. Air France-KLM's operating results have also improved significantly in recent quarters. However, an additional investment is inevitable. It must, of course, also be seen in perspective. The European Corona Restoration Fund is worth EUR 750 billion, consisting of 390 billion in grants and 360 billion in loans. These 390 billion subsidies to southern Europe cost us EUR 780 million a year. We're not getting anything in return. The eagerness of the Left Netherlands last year to immediately transfer that money to a bankrupt southern Europe is in stark contrast to their reserved attitude towards an investment now. Another comparison, with the 60 billion nitrogen and climate pot, shows that this investment in Air France-KLM is less than 4 per cent of this climate pot. Also around this climate pot left danced the Netherlands with joy when that money was made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u71	Let's talk about the previous point. Mr Van Strien said that there is a lot going through the EU to southern Europe. Now we are talking about an issue of EUR 2.2 billion. I assume that Mr Van Strien knows what is going to happen to the 2.2 billion, in line with his story about the flows of money towards southern Europe. Of this 2.2 billion, 1.6 billion will go to the French state because it will be repaid a loan. So our exposure goes up by 200 million, the French invest 600 million and get 1.6 billion in return. So I see a certain parallel to that corona fund you just spoke of. Or am I wrong about that, Mr. Van Strien?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u72	I think Mr Otten is wrong about that. I used to learn in economics classes that you don't get poorer from paying off a loan and that you don't get richer from getting a loan repaid. I compared it to the subsidy section that goes to southern Europe and not to the loan section.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u73	I'm talking about Air France-KLM's loan. I learned in school: if I repay Mr Van Strien's loan, I will be poorer and Mr Van Strien richer. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u74	Mr Otten is wrong about that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u75	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u76	Mr. Chairman. We too have our reserves, because what is "just turning" for aviation? On the one hand, the cabinet says that the Netherlands is internationally oriented, has an open economy and has a lot of trade with abroad, making the connection with the rest of the world via Schiphol very important. The cabinet says it realises that the airport Schiphol and the network of international destinations of KLM create thousands of jobs. These networks also make it financially interesting for foreign companies to settle in the Netherlands. In short, it is about the employment of many thousands of Dutch people. On the other hand, the cabinet imposes both KLM and Schiphol requirements on noise and CO that go far beyond those in the rest of the world. Not to mention the chaos at Schiphol Airport, which the State, as a majority shareholder, still maintains. These are things I can't rhyme with each other. I would like to receive an explanation from the ministers. Resuming. In order to make a good assessment of this bill, I would like to await the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. Mr Frentrop, on behalf of the Ferrtrop Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u78	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. The government wants to buy another 200 million in Air France shares. I keep saying "Air France" when we're talking about Air France-KLM, because that's easier, I think. Everyone makes a mistake sometimes, but you have to learn from mistakes. The government made a mistake before. I refer to the mistake that she bought in 2019 62 million shares of Air France, for €12 each. That was as much as the French had then, Mr Van Ballekom, because the policy was then to seek parity with the French state. So the Dutch KLM is the same size as Air France. That money didn't go to Air France, that money didn't go to KLM either, that money went to investors who did find €12 per share a nice price to sell. Those investors were right and they will stare back with a good glass of wine and a thick cigar, now that the price is below €2 and the Dutch interest is well below 200 million. The government didn't buy those shares with the idea that that's a good investment. No, the government had bought those shares with the idea that she would have control within Air France. That was wrong, because that control just didn't come. On the contrary, the French were angry and they found the Dutch act sneaky. Since that action, the Netherlands has had no more but less to say. For example, the contract of the CEO of KLM was not renewed. He could quit and go to India. That's what the French press wrote. That 744 million error was not only wrong in the sense of inefficient performance, but was also unlawful, according to the Court of Auditors' conclusion. Last year, the government seemed to have learned its lesson. Air France needed another billion new capital. The Netherlands should have paid 145 million to maintain the interest, but the government said: no, thank you, we are not making the same mistake again, we are not participating, we are skipping. The importance of the Netherlands fell from 14% to 9.3%, but that does not matter for control, because that control was zero and remained zero. That was nothing new either, because so be it. That was already decided when the KLM was sold sixteen years ago. Since 2004, the Dutch State has no longer controlled Air France. That was the deal. All we got was one commissioner: Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. What happens now? Now Air France is going to issue 2,000 million new shares. Not at a price of €12, but at a price of €1.17 per piece. To my surprise, the Dutch Government is now saying: give us only 200 million of these shares; we have more than 200 million euros for that. Again, we are not doing this as an investment, although this seems to be a better investment than at the time, but we are again spending 200 million to gain or at least maintain control within Air France's shareholders' meeting. But we will not get that control, because it was zero and it remains zero, whether you transfer €10 to Paris or 220 million. Are we gonna do that collapse to help the KLM? That is expressly not the case. The KLM said: "No, we don't need capital. On the contrary, I'm fine. On the contrary, we are in the process of repaying state aid."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u79	Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u80	One mistake Mr Frentrop never made is that he was professor of governance. I always listen carefully. He too was very excited two years ago that we had a state agent. That was a novel. We'll share that. Now he says that we had no control with those shares. I've known for a few hours that there was a dependent and an independent board member. Did you know that phenomenon? Is it true that we may indeed lose that? Was the difference between dependent and independent a serious control?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u81	A board member should be seen as the idea of a Dutch commissioner. That doesn't give you control. If you have the majority of the board, you have control. If you have maybe a third of the board, you have control. If Air France says anything to one of the nineteen, then the other eighteen will listen to it nicely and then move on to the order of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u82	We read in the letter this afternoon that it may be 19 and 20, but that it does not count in the number you may have. For example, the employees are not counted and neither is the State itself. That's why we know there aren't too many. But the key question is: is there a difference between a dependent and an independent board member?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u83	I am not exactly aware of the French situation at the moment, but the government has indicated that it is. What I hear from the government, there are two differences. One is that the government can give instructions to that board member. But that doesn't do you much good. You can get him to say something and then say the other eighteen: fine, thank you. So that's not gonna pay off in itself. The other difference is that that board member can provide additional information to its supporters. Mrs Prast asked the question: "Oh, isn't that foreknowledge? I look forward to the answer to that. The question is, what do you think that information is worth? You want to pay hundreds of millions for information that isn't yet public?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u84	Finally, Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u85	In the meantime, I have read a piece of yesterday's shorthand report. Minister Kaag says: even the information about the issue to CMA I didn't get until after they made the decision, five over twelve, quote unquote. Minister Kaag also said yesterday that she only Sunday night May 24th or May 22nd, what was it? They heard they're doing an emission that we're about to take part in. No prior knowledge has been given to the Dutch State, even via the dependent board member. So did that board member go to sleep or shouldn't he tell me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u86	I can't judge that, but of course he doesn't have to tell us anything; let's start with that. I believe there is a former ambassador in China who is there on behalf of the Dutch Government. The government depends on how much it follows what is happening within Air France's board and what it passes on to it. Mr. Chairman. KLM does not need the money, the capital, because it can repay the state aid. Air France also wants to repay the state aid, but it can't. That's why Air France now sells 2.2 billion in new shares. The French State purchases 600 million of these shares and receives at least 1.6 billion from Air France. The Macron administration therefore earns exactly 1.6 billion minus 600 million, i.e. 1 billion, one fifth of the Dutch taxpayer. Mr. Chairman. This government likes to buy French goods. When De Vaandelblader came to France for sale last year, we wanted to pay 175 million for it. My group thought that too much back then, but at least you got a real Rembrandt in return. Now we're paying the French 220 million and we're not getting anything in return. If this was the French Parliament, we should all be in favour of this proposal, but we are not. Mr. Chairman. I have two more questions. You will understand what I think of the proposal, but I have two more questions for the Minister. The first one is about the following. In the letter we received in advance, it says that the Dutch Commissioner, Mr Van den Berg, may only give him additional information. That's worth something to us. For me, that wouldn't be worth 220 million, but okay. He has that value as a dependent commissioner. You say that the French board might decide: if our interest falls, he may become an independent Commissioner. My question is: what exactly is the legal basis on which Air France's board could decide that the incumbent Commissioner will change position, i.e. depending on independence? Is that at a certain limit? If he remains dependent on a 5% stake, then we do not have to buy 9.3% but we have 5% enough if we want to pay the price for that dependency. So my question is: what exactly is the legal basis? At what limit should we fear that we will lose that information origin, the only thing we have thanks to the Commissioner? Then my second and final question. I heard Mr Eppink of JA21 say yesterday at the start of the debate in the Dutch Parliamentary Committee on Finance that if the Netherlands does not participate in the issue, it will have consequences for the guarantees given to the Netherlands by Air France in relation to the activities at Schiphol. Of these, the notice period under State aid was extended to five years. According to Mr Eppink, we may lose the guarantees if we do not collapse and then the five-year period may be over. My question to the Minister is: is that correct or did Mr Eppink make a mistake and does the guarantee of the network function of Schiphol until 2025 have no connection at all with the size of the Dutch State's share package? So very specific: is there a connection between these guarantees and the size of the Dutch State's share package in Air France? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u88	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, my group would like to thank both ministers for the extensive public and also confidential information that we have actually received over the last two years. So we're involved, one way or another. We are dealing with an emergency law on State participation in a stock issue of the holding company Air France-KLM for 220 million in order to maintain the current stock interest of 9.3%. The House of Representatives approved the stock issue this afternoon, which is now ahead of us. Mr. Chairman. Anything in perspective, I'd say. The coalition agreement provides huge funds for climate and nitrogen. Together with the Growth Fund, we are close to 80 billion. The State seemed to be able to borrow for free, so the cabinet considered it wise to increase the public debt by that 80 billion and saddle future generations with 80 billion additional sovereign debt. Since 15 December, interest rates have risen around 1.5% and the interest burden on that extra 80 billion is increasing. What's a good merchant? Time will always tell. And in this respect: quo vadis with the KLM? Looking back is always easy, even in this file. Your predecessor Minister Hoekstra bought an extra stake in the holding company Air France-KLM for over 700 million in 2019. The parliamentary procedure followed did not deserve a beauty prize at all. Only the members of the Finance Committee were allowed to attend Minister Hoekstra's explanatory statement at his ministry at 09.00 a.m. Not the members of the Transport and Water State Committee, because the circle had to remain as small as possible because of its secrecy. As members of the Finance Committee, we had to turn in our phones and sign for secrecy. Oh, that was something. I was a member of the House of Representatives and remember that as it was yesterday. The Court of Auditors rightly criticised the procedure followed for its adoption. It was once and never again; there was a Prime Minister who once said that. Moreover, this urgency procedure does not deserve a beauty prize either. As mentioned above, the support package in 2020 strengthened the State guarantees and made strategic commitments for five years. We have to bear that in mind when it comes to the sharp fall in the value of more than 700 million at the time. They cannot be expressed in money, but they are of considerable value. So we're talking about the emergency bill for 220 million. My group wants to see this debate in the light of the corona crisis that has hit aviation and also Air France-KLM amidships. From a positive capacity of 2.3 billion to a negative capacity of 4.2 billion, this is a reduction of 6.5 billion, unforeseen and in a short period of time. Time will tell how quickly aviation and Air France-KLM recover from this blow. The outlook seems favourable but remains uncertain. We all want to go out eventually, into the wide world. Nothing's weird about people. Grandpas and grandmothers can finally visit their children abroad if they work there. They haven't seen one and a half to two years. My wife and I have been through this recently as grandpa and grandma, when we were able to visit our youngest son in Indonesia. The youth also flies out and that is what they were awarded after the long lockdown. The State wants to participate in the new stock issue of the holding company and wants prior approval from the parliament. Participation can keep the interest of 9.3%. The commitments and conditions set out in the 2020 support package remain in full force, it is clear. In April 2021, the State did not participate in the holding company's previous share issue, as the previous cabinet first wanted to examine KLM's capital needs. There was no acute need for strengthening own funds. But is it true that perhaps strict conditions of the Commission were involved and that there were serious hesitations? Look at the terms Lufthansa got and think about turning in a number of slots. How does the Minister subsequently assess this decision of its predecessor? The importance was watered down from 14% to 9% after a large investment to that 14%. Now the cabinet motivates maintaining the 9.3% by guaranteeing the public interest. It is then a question of better regulation of the information position, for example on the equivalent hub development. Maintaining the Dutch interest serves the public interest, says the Minister. The extension of the notice of termination of the State guarantees from nine months to five years in 2020 also fits in. Those state guarantees are agreements between the State and Air France-KLM concerning, among other things, the degree of use of Schiphol as an international hub and the permanent location of KLM in the Netherlands, operating under Dutch permits, traffic rights and aviation treaties, of which we fortunately have a lot, as well as the tax treaties. The extended notice period ends in 2025. Can the Minister indicate how these interests can continue to be guaranteed after 2025? Will the Minister keep us informed in good time of any new developments on this important issue? It was already known since 2021 that the holding company wanted to further strengthen its capital in 2022. The European Commission and the other parties cannot impose any other conditions on this normal emission. In general, even here today, the question is asked as to what happens to the 200 million participation. It is clear that this amount is partly used for repayment by the holding company to the French State and partly for the improvement of own funds. The holding company uses 25% to improve own funds. The rest, 560 million, is used to repay the loan to the French State. How does the Minister assess this distribution? Finally, Mr President. My group notes that the term'sustainability' is frequently used in the documents exchanged, and rightly so. The word 'employment' in the documents is a long way in the shadows, we think. It is about the employment of tens of thousands of people at KLM and Schiphol. They deserve clarity about the sustainability of their jobs for their families and their children. My group wants a comprehensive view from Minister Harbers of the more civilised conditions of employment at Schiphol Airport as a matter of urgency, preferably clear, sure and firm tomorrow. I started with perspective and I want to end with that. They too have a right to perspective, preferably tomorrow. My group awaits the answers of the two ministers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u89	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u90	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch State and KLM, founded in 1919, have been linked for years. In 1950, when the first Drees cabinet was close to cash, the cabinet decided to make a financial contribution to the loss-making KLM. Parliament supported this decision at the time. Many Dutch people are proud of their aviation history and performance with Fokker, KLM and Schiphol. These proud feelings among some of our compatriots, combined with the freedom that flies and cheap flies have brought us, are present in the background when we talk about KLM. That's okay, but it's good to realize that. In addition, the extensive network of KLM and the hub function of Schiphol, as stated, make an important contribution to our economy and to our international trading environment. A simple decision on the acquisition of shares at first sight therefore has a relationship with a wider context. However, I would like to move from the larger context back to the core. It is a question of whether an additional capital injection in the form of the purchase of shares is wasted money or a sensible investment to keep track of the objectives we have with each other. These objectives are sustainable aviation and a healthy contribution to the economy. Think of that as a public interest. Of course, there is always tension on an investment in a commercial organisation to reach a public interest. It is therefore a good thing that we do not decide lightly. The previous cabinet acquired a stock package in Air France-KLM of 9.3% after an internal trade-off, but without prior approval from the parliament. This is an attempt to serve and achieve the public interest, as well as additional agreements relating to aid packages. It's too early to tell if that's gonna work. That's what the state agent said this morning. This state agent's reporting is not optimistic, but there is uncertainty. And in this uncertainty, i.e. the uncertainty as to whether or not the objectives set are being met, the Treasury is now again called upon to maintain the percentage of the stock package. Yeah, that's uncomfortable for the fraction of D66. But is that why we should now urgently reconsider the strategy that has been put in place earlier? Our group does not think so. That strategy includes agreements on environmental objectives, on the deployment of that state agent, on restructuring of the company and on participation through a 9.3% share package. In our group's view, it is too early to review that strategy today. After all, we do not know exactly how much the real influence is within Air France-KLM, how much KLM and Schiphol's role in the economy are and how they might change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u91	We all want that vision, but I heard from the previous spokesperson of the D66 Group in the House of Representatives, Mr Paternotte, often very firm plans. He talked about fewer flights in the night, less this and less that, and more environment. Of course, he's had a very good chance of getting that. But we all know that fewer night flights kill KLM. KLM and Transavia fly into the edges of the night, allowing you to fly up and down to the holiday destinations twice or even three times a day. So what's D66's vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u92	I think the vision of D66 is very clear to you, including from the line used by the House of Representatives. But it is now a question of the government's vision of aviation for the coming years. We understand that air vision will be there in the near future. Of course, we are very curious about that. How's that air vision gonna be? From there, we can also make further plans and see how KLM should be dealt with in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u93	I've already argued that, and so have others. But we've been waiting two years for that. And we're gonna put extra money in it now. So shouldn't we tie that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u94	I have that impatience to some extent. But I am confident that the cabinet is now working very actively on this, and that that promise will be fulfilled in the near future, hopefully in a way that fits in with the vision D66 has in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u95	How exactly does Mr Van der Voort see an interest in the holding company Air France-KLM in KLM's policy? So how does the fact that the Dutch State has shares in Air France relate to all the plans that Mr Van der Voort has with KLM and Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u96	Of course, Mr Frentrop has a very important point to make, because the uncertainty about how much that influence is is, of course, high. And what influence does it have? This includes, in particular, the objectives of the Cabinet and the Parliament. So I can't answer that directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u97	You're using shares to influence the vote at a shareholders' meeting. Does Mr Frentrop agree with me? In this case, with shares in Air France-KLM, you can influence the results of the votes on the agenda items that are before you at the shareholders' meeting of Air France-KLM. At that meeting nothing will be discussed as regards KLM, nothing as regards Schiphol and nothing as regards night flights, nothing at all. There are things that relate to the holding company, such as the salary of the management of the holding company. Only there can you influence it through shares in Air France-KLM. Does Mr. Van der Voort agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u98	I understand that, of course, we would also like to hear the answers from the ministers that the dependent board member, which would have been secured with a 9.3% share package, has the most important influence and information. So that is a different route from the shareholders' meeting Mr Frentrop is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u99	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u100	Then I think Mr. Van der Voort agrees with me that the only way you can influence that board member is to give it an instruction. The government can instruct the board member to make sure there are more or less night flights at Schiphol Airport. Then the board will listen to the board member; that's one of the nineteen. Then the other eighteen will decide. I assume that Mr Van der Voort agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u101	I am not sure if it is exactly as Mr Frentrop suggests. But I think these are questions that have been put to the cabinet. I'd love to wait for the answers to that, to see how big the influence of that board member is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u102	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u103	I was talking about the fact that, according to our group, it is now too early to review the strategy that the cabinet has put in place. Because we do not know whether the environmental objectives will be achieved with less influence. But not purchasing the shares and thus watering the stock package down to 2% means at least letting go of the strategy that was used earlier. However, buying the shares does not automatically mean that the strategy deployed will be successful, but at least gives the opportunity to become successful. Our group therefore opts, in all uncertainty, to hold on to that 9.3% and therefore to make this investment. If other investments are needed in the near future which are not part of the previously formulated strategy, the D66 Group may consider a different approach. There is one question that remains for our group as to the nature of the transaction. The Cabinet letter states that this issue is characterised by a financial transaction, which is expected not to tax the EMU balance. What are these expectations based on? Why is the EMU balance not charged with this transaction? Why is the Minister considering whether or not to provide cover for this? What is the effect of this transaction on public debt? Mr President, so much for our questions. We are waiting with interest for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u104	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I call Mr Essers on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u105	Mr. Chairman. The subject of this debate has something alienating, something disturbing. Our eastern neighbors would say something unheimish. On the one hand, maintaining the importance of the KLM for the Netherlands is central: the hub function and the very important employment aspects. On the other hand, it is also true that the KLM is no longer a pure Dutch company. Without cooperation with a company like Air France, the KLM would probably no longer be able to participate in the championship league of international aviation. Then possibly only one spot in the conference league would remain. The question is whether this competition would not be too great. It is easy to understand that the Netherlands wants to retain the current importance and influence on the decision-making process at Air France-KLM. That is what we support. However, the reality is that most of the shares in the holding company are held by the French State. The Netherlands does not play the leading role without dilution. The conditions imposed on KLM by the Netherlands may even conflict with Air France's interest. The most alienating thing is that the Dutch government has not yet presented a concrete picture of KLM's long-term future; it has been discussed several times today. The company has apparently not yet outlined this long-term perspective either. In this respect, this bill is a walk in the dark. This feeling is reinforced by the unclear consequences of the Ukraine war and the corona pandemic, which is still not under control. What will be the consequences if the war in Ukraine leads to further increases in costs? What will happen to aviation if Corona strikes again in the autumn? Will the Netherlands give a support package to KLM, possibly with stricter conditions? Another uncertainty is how this supplementary budget relates to EU state aid provisions. To what extent is the Netherlands going to cover the planned issue against the financial consequences if, in the long run, prohibited state aid is involved? That's a pretty important question, isn't it? These are all uncertainties, which are also put on our plate through this bill. We really hope that the government will be able to remove some of these uncertainties in this debate. But, frankly, I do not have too great expectations in this regard, because those uncertainties are also for the government. It would be very nice if at least there was a clear answer to that question about the position of that board member, namely whether it could go from dependent to independent in relation to the Netherlands. I feel like that would offer a little more comfort. However, we can clearly see that watering down the current Dutch interest in the holding company will certainly not remove the many uncertainties. The problems will then only worsen and the current signs towards recovery will stand in the way, however weak, of course. It is certainly not unimportant that if we let our interests be watered down, this will have a very strong symbolic effect. Then, as it were, we abandon our interests at KLM. I put it a little harder, but it has a symbolic meaning. We really need to stay at the ball. We look forward to the Government's answer to our questions, but our commitment will be to support this supplementary budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u106	Mr Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u107	Mr Essers mentions the many uncertainties that inevitably cannot be answered today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. It has to turn out. Mr Essers said, however, that the CDA Group was convinced that the interest in Air France-KLM should not be watered down. At the beginning of his speech he also said that this might come back more often. When I hear it like that, I think that the CDA Group can always push for Dutch participation in the next claim issue and the subsequent claim issue, because there are always uncertainties and you can't completely remove them. If something's out of the question, it's probably gonna happen. I am actually curious when this is not the case: when would the CDA's answer be 'no'? I also ask this because I was positively triggered by Mr Van Kesteren's contribution on behalf of the CDA Group to the Financial Reviews. I sum up this contribution as follows: we really need to move on to a different story about how we move forward with the economy and with sustainability; old patterns should simply be called into question. I count as "old patterns" the entire aviation complex, the old model of growth of KLM, Schiphol and so on. That is how I understood Mr Van Kesteren. I am actually looking for an anchor in this story by Mr Essers. That is what I am trying to do with the question of when the CDA Group, also with a view to that other story, might say no to that transition. When would there be such a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u108	I fully underline what Mr Vendrik says about our attitude towards this transition. We consider this transition to be extremely valuable. We also consider KLM's importance to the economy to be extremely valuable. As far as we're concerned, you can't separate those two; both are necessary. You're gonna have to make investments for that, too. A dilution of 9.3% to 2% is a very strong dilution. I have also said that accepting it has a very strong symbolic meaning. We have already had a dilution once before, but it was not as dramatic as what is now threatening, from 9.3% to 2%. I didn't say for nothing that this bill has something alienating, something disturbing, unheimish, because of those uncertainties. But that's the reality we have to live with. But using that as an argument not to act now would be extremely unwise. As for the future, you can never say "whatever happens, whatever it takes." But that you must have an attitude in which you do your utmost to maintain this extremely valuable company for the Netherlands, that is very appealing to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u109	May I ask Members to limit the number of interruptions where possible? Because we have to go to dinner break. We have five more speakers. Or we'll have dinner break first, do the rest of the first term, then a break for the government to prepare, and then on. It's just a matter of time. I'm fine with... you can go on, too, Mr. Vendrik. But the question is: do you want to finish the speakers for dinner break or do you want to have a dinner break first and then the rest of this term? I'm gonna ask the audience, too. Keep going? Then I would ask for the interruptions to be limited to one question per interruption. Then we're gonna finish this. I can see Mr. Van Ballekom coming forward for the first exception. Oh, he's getting water. See, he's already got an empty stomach. Your question, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u110	I think I'll hold out with my reserves until dinner break, so let's finish. I have a question for Mr Essers, following Mr Vendrik's question. The CDA sometimes goes a little along. How do you look back, Mr. Essers, on the 2019 package of 744 million? That didn't work out so well. The point is, and that's what I tried to indicate in my contribution: do it right or don't do it. But we all do it half and a half. With one emission, we'll be in the game, then we'll be out of the game. Then we buy too much, and if it's cheap, we don't buy anything. How does Mr Essers see that? 'Cause it's kind of a yo-yo policy after all. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u111	I don't see it that way. We would never have had a European Union if we had followed Mr Otten's philosophy. That's always two steps forward, one step back, maybe two steps back. You have to look at the realities every time. Then sometimes it is better to follow a pragmatic line than to say radically: it is that or nothing. 'Cause there's no way that's gonna turn out dramatic at some point. So I'm really in favour of ideals, but in order to achieve those ideals in the long term, you should sometimes be willing to compromise and look at what is possible; small steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u112	Thank you. Mr Schalk has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Now that we've postponed dinner so far, maybe it's time for a refreshing moment. Yesterday Minister Kaag gave me a metaphor by talking about watering down. That reminded me of a refreshing thingy, a block of ice. As a disclaimer, I'm not a physicist, so don't take care of the metaphor I want to use. But if I put a block of ice here, if the temperature were below 0 degrees, it would just stay in place. If it gets warmer, it'll water down. If the heat increases, it will evaporate. Ice can therefore be watered down and evaporated, and that can also be done with money, as I will try to make clear in my speech. Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating a dilemma. A simple definition of the word "dilemma" is: a difficult choice between two things. I see a few dilemmas. First there is a dilemma between the business interest and the bottomless pit. I talked about it yesterday, too. The second dilemma is the dilemma of Dutch financial robustness with regard to French State aid. First of all, the dilemma of business importance versus the bottomless pit. It is clear that there is a business interest. KLM is a concept. Everything has been done in the past to keep this society alive. So far, so good. But it goes along the edges. A flow of millions of euros flows towards aviation, but the money evaporates in front of us. When we look at the financial injection of 2019, it becomes clear what I mean. The shares were worth €12 at the time. With that, we bought a 14% stake. There was also an emission in 2021. The Dutch State did not participate in this. Our interest watered down from 14% to 9.3%. Our interest watered down, but the money evaporated. The share of €12 in 2019 is now worth about €1.50, so that money has actually evaporated 85%. Then why did we let our interests be watered down? Why couldn't I now? Now we need new money. We can now acquire the shares for €1,17. The big advantage of this low price is that evaporation doesn't cost much more money, but that's a cynical observation. The new money must also be added to prevent it from watering down. If we want to maintain the interest of 9.3%, then we cannot ignore it; then we have to participate in the stock issue. The question is, of course, what dilution of the importance we can afford. Should we remain on that 9.3% or can a lesser interest be accepted to maintain the same power of expression? Another question. The Dutch State is the second shareholder with 9.3%. Can that be overwhelmed by a third? If so: is that serious? Mr. Chairman. The second dilemma is the Dutch financial soundness versus the French state aid. I am referring to the following: the purpose of the issue is to raise 2.5 billion, thus restoring the balance sheet and repay 75% of the capital aid from the French State. That leaves half a billion; the rest of the stock issue goes back to the French state. In other words, it is already clear that once that stock issue is completed, 75% of the money raised does not benefit Air France-KLM, but the French state treasury. And that's when our sovereign debt is huge. While our state aid is far from being repaid. How does the government explain to our citizens that taking part in this stock issue is acceptable or even justifiable? Mr. Chairman. A few more questions about the conditions for the aid package, I know that this is not the case at the moment, but it is an annex to that. What is the government's opinion on the state of affairs regarding the relevant terms and conditions? Does participating in this emission have any positive effects on the implementation of our conditions by KLM? To the metaphor of the ice: it can evaporate or water down. We are faced with the following dilemma. If we put money in KLM, it could evaporate, but it doesn't have to. If we don't put it in, our influence, bought with money, will water down. In that dilemma, my group is going to make a choice. I look forward to the response of the ministers, in order to reach a final verdict from my group. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u115	Thank you, Mr President. In essence, this seems to be a simple legislative proposal. The holding company Air France-KLM places a new share issue. The Dutch State may decide to purchase shares or not. In this connection, let me stress that there are no conditions. We pretend that is the case, but that is not the case in the case of emissions. It's a purely financial consideration. You could say, "That's the end of the story." That would also lead to a very short debate in this Chamber, at least not until midnight. However, the Christian Union's group is in favour of a more comprehensive analysis, in particular the broad perspective of prosperity. My group sees the importance of state participation in the proposed issue of shares. However, we do have a number of critical questions. We very much appreciated the various briefings. They have also strengthened our judgment. Later tonight, we will take stock of the final outcome. First of all, the communication on the envisaged state participation. We understand very well that, given the price sensitivity of the new issue of shares, a certain degree of confidentiality is required, but now there is a hint of secrecy that does not improve the imagery. My group is not happy with the very tight preparation time for Parliament. Moreover, as it turns out, many details of the stock issue have already found their way to the media. The Minister, in her political and public statements, shows that she takes the adage of policy transparency very seriously, and that is a credit to her. But how does it weigh this principle in this context? What lessons does she learn from this? Is it not simply desirable to have a greater degree of openness, also with a view to a new administrative culture? My conclusion is that the procedure followed does not improve democratic confidence. A review of compliance with the conditions that applied to KLM's support package two years ago should not be missed in our reflections. The State Agent for KLM concluded in its second progress report that the business and financial framework conditions of the aid package were largely met. It's a pleasure. At the same time, the state agent notes that the conditions for network quality, viability and sustainability still need to be operationalised. And that's much less pleasurable. The Minister of Infrastructure and Water State is involved in this together with KLM. I ask him, through the President, what further steps are needed here and what planning he is planning. From a broad welfare perspective, it is essential that these criteria are also taken seriously. It is not just about operating framework conditions, but also about the necessary sustainability of aviation, the impact on residents and CO emissions. Several speakers have made that point. The State Agent also considers that measures on cost reduction and productivity improvement should be made structural by KLM. What is the status of KLM reserves in this respect? In combination, this leads to my question to both rulers whether there are now scenarios around the future of KLM. I am thinking of financial and social choices. The Chamber asked for that earlier. What option is the Dutch State's preferred shareholder? What is the direction of both ministers in order to achieve this preference? Mr. Chairman. No matter how you turn it, we need a clear picture of a desirable and sustainable future for KLM, a sustainable vision of the future that is good for our economy and society. That is what determines our willingness to invest. Where are the odds, where are the threats? Is KLM's earning and business model still in order? We also want to avoid a tombola of government financial injections in the shorter and longer term. I'd like a reflection on this. Mr. Chairman. KLM is a company important for the Netherlands. Direct and indirect employment alone concerns more than tens of thousands of jobs. In order to be able to control business and social performance, it is important that the Dutch State has control of Air France-KLM. Without participation in the stock issue, the Dutch interest would fall from 9% to a poor 2%. By participating, we retain our second position as shareholder. This prevents dilution. What a horrible word that is by the way; it falls here every three minutes, but I do have to get used to it. And we don't pay for steering power. Are there any other arguments, I would ask both directors, which justify participation in the issue of shares? What impact did the larger stock purchase actually have on us in 2019? It was EUR 3/4 billion, a huge amount. Is there any evidence of that influence? Was it worth the purchase? Can some appealing examples be shared with us? Mr. Chairman. The consolidation of our current position costs the Netherlands around 220 million, which is included in the current budget. How does the Minister of Finance assess the fact that this increases public debt? Has alternative coverage been considered? The Spring paper shows that many political priorities are fighting for priority. We are talking about several billions. We may be able to talk about this later. Is the Minister concerned with my group about the sustainability and vulnerability of our public finances and, if so, what does it say? The fat years of low interest rates on government loans................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u116	Mr Vendrik, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u117	Mr Ester endorsed the importance of maintaining a certain influence in the hands of the State of the Netherlands. What should this influence be used for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u118	That is actually the motivation behind my question to the rulers. Yesterday it was also discussed. We want to have influence, but how that influence crystallizes and makes it presentable is a somewhat confusing story. It is also not quantifiable, as was said yesterday. It's a qualitative phenomenon. I think that's relatively thin. My point of view, my group's point of view, is that this influence should be used especially when it comes to the broad prospect of prosperity. That's your own story about sustainability, reducing CO emissions, network quality and more of that kind of thing. That's supposed to be the point. I'm defending them here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u119	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u120	The primary objective of the equity issue is to strengthen Air France-KLM's balance sheet and to repay 75% of the previous capital aid through a 3 billion bond to the French State. The stock statement is intended to raise some 2.3 billion. How do we prevent, as my group is asking, that this be seen as a financial aid from the Netherlands to France, as a douche from the Dutch taxpayer, to say it popularly? What is the European Commission's most recent position? In this context, how does the Minister of Finance assess the fact that Air France-KLM's assets at the end of March this year were no less than 4.2 billion negative? Then there's one final question. The Dutch State has a 70% stake in Schiphol, the home of KLM. Over the last few weeks, Schiphol showed the sad sight of long queues, furious travelers and high work stress among poorly paid ground staff. The Schiphol Executive Board was almost invisible and seemed to have lost control. What can the government do to reverse this distressing situation, this perfect storm? Also for a party like mine, which is committed to reducing air traffic and stepping up travel by rail, this continuing chaos is a disgrace. Schiphol is under-performing, and that needs to change quickly. Do the two rulers see a role for themselves here? Does the combined shareholdership of the State in KLM, Schiphol and Air France not offer additional compelling influence? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna close with a little miraculous perception. During our deliberations in this Chamber in the last two days, after a long decline, the rate of Air France-KLM has risen again. I don't know if that's good news or bad news, but it seemed worth mentioning. I don't know if that's causality or correlation. I'll get that from the Minister later. My group looks forward to the answer to our questions by the two leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ester. Mr Otten, one question, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u122	The claims have become 10 cents cheaper since my speech, so the third way solution is now about 30 million cheaper than when I spoke to him. You have to see that in conjunction, I say to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u123	During my speech, he went up again. Actually, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u124	Well, let's get this over with. I shall now give the floor to Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group. But, of course, not until after I have given the floor to Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u125	No, Mr. Chairman. I hear members shouting that I'm going to get water, but I've already got that water and I don't need it now. Mr. Chairman. With this pen, a KLM pen, I signed a contract between the European Investment Bank and the KLM to renew part of the fleet, to achieve 30% reduction in emissions and reduce noise pollution by a quarter and to ensure safety. Sustainability was our bank for my bank at the time, because it is an EU bank that is an important reason to close the transaction and I am very proud of it. Mr. Chairman. Our Chamber is asked to approve the third incidental supplementary budget for the Department of Finance in order to make the budgetary resources available to the Government for participation in the Air France-KLM equity issue. It concerns an increase in the budget of EUR 220 million. The VVD Group would like to thank the Minister and her officials and the state agent for the detailed answer yesterday and today of the questions raised during the briefings. We therefore have no further questions. Also because participation in an issue of shares is not subject to any further requirements. We think it's a simple yes or no. Moreover, it must seem to me that many of the questions put to me in this plenary session are a repetition of what has been said. Anyway... By the way, although we have a budget right, the political considerations are made on the Bezuidenhout and not on the Voorhout. In my party's view, an issue of shares has little to do with the quality of legislation and related matters on which we propose to review. Nor does my group need to write history and lead it there that the budget is not accepted. That happened for the last time in 1907 and we would like to leave it at that. My group supports the government's considerations. The government has laid it down in the letters sent to our Chamber and in the further explanations given during the briefings. My group will wholeheartedly support this supplementary budget. It is important in the circumstances that the Dutch State can keep its finger on the pulse in a company crucial for the Netherlands. We are convinced that this will work much better with an interest of more than 9% in the holding company than with a watered-down interest. There you have that word again: diluted interest of 2%. Because this dilution could mean that instead of a dependent member we would have an independent member on the board and that would reduce our influence. Mr. Chairman. Not only does the KLM play a role here. The Netherlands is proudly an important trading country and good connections are crucial. And yes, the aviation sector has been heavily washed out for a country like the Netherlands. Let us therefore strongly focus on innovation, efficiency and further sustainability in order to make this important sector future-proof. And here it comes, Mr Crone: such a policy can count on the support of my group. The scale and reduction of the company's activities is something we expressly do not want to repeat: we do not want to agree to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u126	Mr Crone, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u127	I will be brief, Mr President, because I agree with everything Mr Van Ballekom has said, even if it is commonplace. But one thing I was wondering: how can he be so sure that we are dependent. remain an independent board member? That's the question. And the Minister has already said that we are not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u128	That's what the letter says. The letter says the word "can."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u129	It doesn't say that. It says, "It could be." "Could" but not "must."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u130	No, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u131	You show certainty that isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u132	I think if you lower your stock size from 9% to 2%, the decision to convert a dependent board member to an independent board member is easier to take than when you don't have it. It's the Minister's assessment, I suppose. That's not the security of Medes and Persians. You don't have to. I don't want to risk it either, Mr. Crone. The fact that you want to walk it is a matter for you and your party. But the VVD doesn't want that. Nor, as I said, does he want the company's activities to be scaled down. We expect agreements to be kept. It may be going too slowly and less quickly than we had hoped, but let us not despair. Politicians are often a bit impatient, but it must all be businesslike. It is also important for my party to include this in our deliberations. However, Mr President, it is not right to outline the picture that nothing is happening in the area of sustainability, cost reductions and efficiency. It annoys my group that that picture is being sketched. In its report, the state agent stated that the cost reductions, 15%, were well achieved in 2021. Okay, we'll take note of that. The agent also stated that the remuneration policy as such is not part of the agreements, let alone that there should be a leveling policy. Mr President, I should like to leave it to these two comments on the contributions of my colleagues. I expect and hope that this supplementary budget will be accepted before midnight. Mr Vendrik wants to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u133	A strong contribution by Mr Van Ballekom, but above all in our direction and not in the direction of the government, while at the end of the day we are dealing with Parliament's budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u134	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u135	At the beginning of Mr Van Ballekom's contribution it seemed a bit like that budget law is sometimes a must. But that's not true, is it? We misunderstood that, didn't we? The VVD in the Upper House also stands for budget law. The cabinet has to earn it every time to be able to spend citizens' taxpayers' money. That's how I understood it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u136	Yes, you understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u137	Then there is an impression on this side that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u138	But I would not want to make a history of this budget tonight by rejecting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u139	I was also a little surprised by the remarks made by Mr Van Ballekom of the VVD, who sees this Upper House, of which he himself is part, as a kind of troublesome obstacle. On social media, I see all people saying that the level of the KLM debate in the Upper House is many times higher than in the Lower House. Apparently, a lot of new insights come up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u140	What's your short question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u141	Why the negative attitude at the VVD towards the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u142	Mr Van Ballekom, a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u143	If I understand correctly, Mr Otten wanted to abolish the First Chamber in his state of law debate. So what are we talking about now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u144	Now we're really moving on to another subject. I'm gonna put an end to that. I am going to Mr Berkhout on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by welcoming once again the ministers and their staff and thanking them for the answer to the questions in the run-up to this debate. Mr. Chairman. Air France-KLM needs money. In short, that is what we are talking about today. According to the government, the choice is as follows. Do not participate in the issue, either water down the state interest and become a shareholder with much less influence, or purchase new shares with taxpayers' money to maintain our control in Air France-KLM. In the latter my group agrees with the groundwork. However, we do have reservations. Air France-KLM's financial concerns are most likely not over with this last share issue. What's the next step? That's what I'm asking. Again, investing more Dutch tax money on another issue? My group therefore asks the government, as an active shareholder of Air France-KLM, for the long-term strategy, and in particular a strategy that does justice to this important business for the Netherlands, but which does not mean that we have to go back and forth. Mr President, I shall leave it at that for now. I look forward to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u146	Thank you. I call Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with a personal disclaimer. First of all, I would like to express the political position of the Forum for Democracy on this issue of shares. This is separate from my work at Air Traffic Control Netherlands, where I have no personal or financial interest in the size of aviation in general and that of the KLM in particular. So much for the introduction. Mr. Chairman. With this issue of shares, a sample of French powerplay is presented which, according to the group of Forum for Democracy, the Dutch State reacts a little lukewarmly to. Because where KLM is rapidly recovering financial support from a highly attracting aviation market and where our group is wrongly criticising KLM about staff salary increases, a substantial interest of the State in Air France-KLM is indeed relevant in order to have sufficient influence in Paris on the great importance of the hub and spoke function of Schiphol, in which KLM has an essential role. In fact, I think that everyone in KLM's now underpaid baggage dealers will be able to grant their 5% deferred wage increase for inflation in order to recognise their role in the operation at Schiphol, so that many Dutch people with their luggage can enjoy their well-deserved vacation. But that aside. Mr. Chairman. In this light, a strong KLM in the Air France-KLM holding is also a Dutch interest. The French powerplay should actually be answered with powerplay. My question to the Minister is: why is it not chosen to increase the importance of the State rather than the proposal now before us to maintain the current 9.3%? Moreover, the purchase price of these shares is relatively favourable and therefore there are also economic advantages to obtaining additional shares in Air France-KLM in the attracting market right now. In conclusion, it will be clear that FVD will vote for the proposal now on the table and for this third incidental supplementary budget for Finance 2022. We await the Minister's reply with interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u148	Thank you, Mr. Dessing. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u149	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the legislative proposal 36108, the Third incidental supplementary budget for Finance 2022 on equity issue Air France-KLM. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I begin, I would like to include the Chamber in the distribution that Mr Harbers and I have made and the cubes that have been found. One: a brief introduction. Two: the timetable, which has often been mentioned. Three: the discussion on the public interest of the shares. Four: the budgetary framework. Five: the support package of KLM, and the related comments and observations of the state agent, the conditions and their enforceability. I also have a piece of other stuff. After that, Minister Harbers continues to discuss the future of aviation and the role of KLM in it. He will also discuss the current situation around Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u151	So I'm counting six topics for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u152	Seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u153	Okay. Then I would like to propose to the Chamber that the Minister should always close the subject and give every block an opportunity to interrupt. Is that okay with you? Doesn't anyone agree? That's okay. I would ask the Minister to at least state clearly when a block has ended. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u154	Thank you. I'll start with the cube introduction. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking you on behalf of Minister Harbers and myself for your willingness as President to allow us to discuss with the committee in the short term the cabinet's intention in public. I would, of course, also like to thank the members of the committee very much for their availability, also in the short term, and for the fact that you wanted to clear your agenda. We know that this requires a great deal from you. The intention to issue shares is special. The Dutch State has had only limited influence on the timelines, however undesirable or desirable this has been. We have tried to do this, I would say in advance, but we have also had to take into account company confidential information. We very much appreciate your flexibility. You have asked a lot of questions in your contributions and made comments and criticisms. Many of the dilemmas you outline from your questions and comments are dilemmas which Mr Harbers and I very much recognise, also from the discussions we have had with the cabinet. In width, the difficult dilemmas are well outlined, both in the shorter term and in the longer term. This was really not a simple weighing. This was not something we said: oh yes, of course, of course, let us do this. But we have come up with the intention to go with you under the current circumstances, subject to your consent, with the issue of Air France-KLM's shares, from the perspective of the public interest. How we define the public interest: public interest, public interest or, according to the SDGs, public goods via aviation and KLM, Minister Harbers will return to that. But from the main point of view, we have said that this issue of shares is about being able to secure and ensure the public interest that we see, through the shareholdership of KLM and Air France. As indicated in the coalition agreement, the Netherlands is well connected to the rest of the world by the presence of Schiphol by air. With public interest we also think of securing the hub function of this airport in a modern way. In particular, Minister Harbers' Aeronautics Paper looks at sustainability and the reduction of the effects of aviation on humans, the environment and nature. We also think of the role of the hub function performed by both Schiphol and KLM for the investment climate in the Netherlands, the attractiveness of which companies still want to stay in the Netherlands, even in the period after Brexit. And the Netherlands can be in a good position because of the destination network at Schiphol Airport, also related to the security of good connections. The sustainability of aviation is also important in this respect. As a shareholder, however limited, we can continue to put more pressure on Air France-KLM. We've had a lot of exchanges about sustainability. Among others, Mr Vendrik referred to this, but many of you also did so, not only in relation to KLM, but also in relation to the wider participation policy. Mr Vendrik referred to the current Nota Participation Policy, but, as you know, we have started to put a new note to the cabinet. At the moment, we are already acting from a perspective of corporate social responsibility, but we want to take much more explicit into the new note the objectives and the central role that international corporate social responsibility has to take in terms of living or fair pay, sustainability or climate. Hopefully it will be shared with your room before the summer. It is also my intention not to fill that note in the final form, but to put it down as a detailed concept on behalf of the cabinet for discussion with your Chamber, so that I can really take your considerations with me before we complete it in its entirety. Here, too, we can see, for example, how we can play a much more active role from the point of view of shareholdership and how we can give it a more modern interpretation, to my taste. What I often oppose, and I think Mr Harbers too, is that it is appropriate, as I understand it, under Dutch company law that we say: we are shareholders, but of course it is up to the board of directors to make choices in the day-to-day operational, business activities. We, as a government, really do not want to go into it in that way. However, we can do more to ensure that corporate social responsibility and promoting sustainability become a measurable, accessible priority. In addition, the consideration "back to the circle of public interest' is a focus on Air France-KLM's equity interest. Maintaining it is not an end in itself, but it is part of the policy of the Dutch State to safeguard the public interest, as I just said on the basis of a number of elements, within the holding company. Indeed, I cannot summarize it in one word. I could define it. But when we say 'the key word', it is the elements that we want to secure through the airline's lens and through the lens of shareholdership. We do not regard it as an offensive purchase, as I have said a number of times, but as a defensive purchase. Then there's the emission. That brings me to the last part of my introduction. The purpose of this issue is to water down the Dutch State's interest. I think it comes from a less good translation of the English word "dilution'. If we don't participate, our share will basically decrease to 2.9%. It's been remembered before. What exactly matters is not an exact science. In fact, I consider this to be the Achilles heel of our debate with you: we cannot make everything worse. We certainly can't quantify it. But as I said before, this is a story where some of the building blocks fit together. It is also uncomfortable for Minister Harbers and myself when we talk about this subject, because we cannot make one-on-one data insight that all these steps and choices have led to either a radical change or a translation of public interest into a number of measurable elements. Questions have also been asked as to exactly what the interest of 9.3% will bring, also because the Dutch State will not, or will not, have, control over the company with this interest. I don't want to repeat it, but I told you, we see it as a defensive interest. But a defensive interest in a company can also be important. We can prevent things, we can keep things and we can continue to exert influence, even when it comes to a price adjustment. It is important to us, it is modest, but it can also be effective. The aviation sector, which will be discussed further by Minister Harbers, is facing an important and exciting period. In Europe there is a lot of talk about cooperation between airlines. If the choice is whether to sit at the table or not, then as far as we are concerned, we prefer to sit at the table as a shareholder. This may not deserve a beauty prize, but it is a choice. That is why I come back to the dilemmas that we have also experienced in the cabinet. Mrs Prast asked about the results of shareholdership so far. There are a number of examples of what the shareholding in Air France-KLM has yielded. I've already mentioned them in a conversation with you at earlier times. There's four of them. One. The period of notice of State guarantees has been extended from nine months to five years. Two. The Dutch board seat has gone from independent to dependent. We have talked about this a number of times. This has really led to a real improvement in the provision of information to the Dutch State. Three. There is weekly consultation with the Dutch board member, often at official level, to talk about Air France-KLM. What's going on? What's gonna play? What are the weighing moments? As a result, the Dutch State also receives relevant information. Four. For example, the representative of the Dutch State, Mr Van den Berg, is on the Sustainable Development and Compliance Committee of Air France-KLM and is really actively engaged, on instruction and in consultation with the Dutch State, to actively encourage the company to make further efforts. We shall be informed in advance of strategic decisions or taken into account. The financial director, Steven Zaat, is always looking for our insights. In the past period, a final example, Air France KLM has decided to place a joint and comprehensive order for new aircraft. The decision was made at board level. Our independent board member has shared the relevant pieces with us again. We've been able to play a role. In the end, a device has been chosen to be more economical, I have to say, because I cannot measure it more environmentally friendly and environmentally friendly, according to the intention and the purchase. Minister Harbers may be able to explain this further. Then there's the support package. There is, of course, a great deal of demand for this. Air France-KLM's equity issue and the question whether the Dutch State participates in this stock issue are independent of the 2020 aid package in terms of decision-making. I understand very well that these traces in public opinion, and of course for your substantive consideration, are mixed up when you look at the behaviour of a company, whether they have complied with the conditions and whether they have actually earned the support through the Dutch taxpayer's issue of shares. Those are legitimate questions. In terms of choices we want to separate these paths, because there are questions that are specifically related to the support package. I'll come back to that in a separate block. Then to conclude my introduction, Mr. Chairman. The state agent has, of course, shared some firm conclusions with you in the run-up to his third report. However, in an earlier period, the state agent also indicated that KLM met the cost reduction requirements in 2021 and 2022. I think his words were: well-satisfied. In addition, KLM has also progressed "finally," I say "in drawing up a sustainability plan." We have often discussed and insisted on this, because this is also a legitimate expectation and it was part of the conditions. But, of course, we cannot and do not want to go beyond the strong points of the state agent. It found that KLM did not fulfil the conditions for implementing structural cost reductions, i.e. the structural side, the labour-conditional contribution and the end of facilitating possible tax avoidance. I believe you've spoken to the state agent in detail. I also know that you have taken a lot of his insights to you. We also spoke to KLM's Supervisory Board on the basis of the early reporting of the state agent. The chairman of the Supervisory Board has confirmed that KLM feels really obliged to honour its commitments. This is, of course, not just an expectation we have; it is an obligation. We look forward to the important role played by the new CEO, Marjan Rintel. It will have to catch up in the short term with regard to the fulfilment of agreements that should have been met earlier. The cabinet will, of course, await the formal third progress report of the state agent and will then discuss it with the company again. Of course, this information will also be shared with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u155	The Minister outlined four advantages of being a shareholder in Air France-KLM since 2019. The second advantage was, as I recall, that the notice period of the guarantees was extended to five years. What is the relationship between being a shareholder and extending that period of notice?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u156	They weren't benefits, but they were examples. But it has the idea of course to serve as an advantage. It's about influence. It's about direction and direction, and it's about influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u157	I understand, but that wasn't my question. The second advantage you mentioned was that the notice period of those guarantees was extended by five years. My question was how that's related to the stock stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u158	I understand your question, but my answer is as follows. We have an influence on how deadlines are discussed and the decisions taken by the Air France-KLM board. If we're not at the table, we don't know about it, we're surprised and we certainly don't have any influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u159	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u160	I actually consider this to be my second, Mr President. I understand that you have an influence in Air France's shareholders' meeting, but this was an agreement between Air France and the Dutch State on those guarantees. So you negotiated as an outsider, as a party, with Air France. How did the fact that you had shares in the holding company help in these negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u161	Yes, of course it is ultimately agreements between KLM and the Dutch State. But the fact is that in certain decisions and directions, even when it comes to pressure on KLM, we sometimes went to the holding via an escalation ladder. If we are not part of the board, we do not go to the holding company in that way and have less influence. We have influence as a State towards KLM, but without that board seat the influence is much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u162	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u163	I'm gonna stick with it anyway. I don't think it's getting any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u164	Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u165	I would like to go into these examples a little more in depth. I understand earlier from you, including the previous Minister, that these state guarantees were part of the State aid package. That's not so crazy either, because why would a country invest while the flights are being removed from that country? So it had nothing to do with the shareholdership. We've been told that before. But more importantly, I find your comment about that dependent board member. I have done multitasking and read yesterday's report. In that you yourself say: the announcement of this emission was reported to me on Sunday evening 22 May; that the container company is involved was also reported to me afterwards. And you're literally saying, it wasn't five to twelve reported to me, it was five to twelve. So you yourself said: I have not been aware of these two very important decisions. So my question is: didn't the dependent board member, Mr Van den Berg, know it, too? That would be crazy. He must have known, because they didn't decide on Sunday nights, did they? Then there must have been pieces, at least, for the board meeting, in which all that has been written? These are not decisions you make by phone, in a board with twenty people, on Sunday evening, after which you call the minister in the Netherlands. So you yourself indicated that even that dependent board member didn't inform you, let alone that you could give him an instruction in the sense of "I'll do it" or "I won't do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u166	You're referring to the debate in the Lower House? Then I'm gonna have to look back on my own. But that is where I think my answer has been something else. It's about formal notification. On Sunday evening 24 May, if that was a Sunday evening, we were formally informed about the decision and the vote of the board. But before that contact has been with the Dutch member of the board. Our request to him was: make sure that that timeline is stretched, despite the sensitivity of the stock exchange, because we need much more time for the Second and First Chambers if we want to declare the intention to participate at all and to do so. Before that, I have also heard from the newspapers, like you, of a possible participation of the container company, the logistics company. But to be precise, it's about the process and the timeline. The board member knows at some point that this is happening, but the formal decision of the board was only communicated to us on Sunday evening 24 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u167	Yet yesterday in the debate you yourself said 'I was informed five after twelve', in the sense that there was nothing I could do about it. Then what's an instruction worth? Nothing more, because the decision was made. I also think that this is part of the picture that we always get: the French are leading the way and are taking the measures. By the way, I'm not turning my heart into a murder pit right now. I can just tell by all the conversations I make. Your predecessor has ruined relations, and I understand that. I'm not gonna say anything else about it, because I'm just hearing something. But apparently one does not need to inform you in good time and a formal control, if there is one, is not worth much either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u168	The questions were something else yesterday, but I'll add that our conversations with Air France at that stage... I would like to return to the timing in this way; then you will get a better picture. The brief conversations and information were mainly about the choice of the cabinet to possibly proceed to a possible participation. This has been the focus of most of the discussions, including at official level. But I must also tell you that we are very late... We've been working on recapitalisation for a long time. We have talked about this in confidence. At this stage, since I am a minister, we have not publicly exchanged this. Only later Air France-KLM came up with the idea: we are going to issue a stock issue. Maybe I could park this question from you. I'll come back to it in the very detailed timeline. Then you can know what has been discussed on what day and what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u169	Thank you. Mr Van Apeldoorn, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u170	The Minister just said that she had spoken to the Supervisory Board on the basis of the state agent's findings, if I understood her correctly, and that the Supervisory Board said: we believe that we are obliged to comply with the agreements. That's good, because KLM has that duty, so that seems obvious to me. Has the Supervisory Board been able to explain to the Minister why this has not happened before or until now? See the State Agent's findings. Were they not aware of that obligation before?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u171	I brought this on myself. I would like to touch on the piece of findings of the state agent and the role of the supervisory board. I did not speak personally to the Supervisory Board; that happened on my behalf this morning. There have indeed been a number of steps there. There have been difficulties there. As a Dutch State, we have often had to influence not only the supervisory board but also the holding company Air France to move KLM to take steps. That is why we consider shareholdership to be important. The Supervisory Board is well aware of the obligations there are. In a follow-up discussion with them, we want to actively remind them of their obligations in very clear terms, but also of what we expect. Minister Harbers and I have done this on several occasions with KLM's head office, holding company and supervisory board. There's no surprises there. I think it has been very good to make this very explicit, also in the context of the debate we are having today. Because the licence to operate as Minister Harbers always calls it so beautiful, the social support for KLM or investing in a stock issue is not as strong as the company that might have expected in the past. That is, of course, because of all the problems we have encountered. As far as I am concerned, there is an even greater task on the shoulders of the Supervisory Board, but also of us to ensure that the Supervisory Board can deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u172	Again, the question to the Minister. The Supervisory Board has not been able to explain why these conditions have not been met before or until now. That has simply been established and we have been promised better health. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Or has another story been kept: we have indeed not complied with those conditions; we should not have, but we had good reasons for that? Has there been some kind of explanation? I really do not think that KLM has complied with those conditions and that the state agent has not been involved in that process. Actually, I think it's quite something, so I was wondering if there was any change in that. Can the Minister tell us anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u173	The supervisory board knows our opinion, but I find it a little uncomfortable to give an opinion on the functioning of a supervisory board here in the public debate. I do not know to what extent I should comment on that. I find it uncomfortable, but the Supervisory Board knows what we are thinking, what we expect and also that KLM really needs to make haste, in particular with the sustainability plan, the implementation plan and the milestones that have been set. Of course, as the state agent said, some good things have happened. However, the facilitation of tax avoidance or its risk, working conditions and structural cost reduction have not yet been sufficiently addressed. And I think it is clear that we also have high expectations of the entry of the new CEO.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u174	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u175	Finally, Mr President. I understand what the Minister is saying, but at least I hope that message has come across to the Supervisory Board. I also ask this because we are talking a lot about influence in this debate. To what extent does the Dutch State as a shareholder, as a major shareholder, have influence or not influence? On the one hand, this influence goes through the conditions laid down in the previous aid package. On the other hand, we also have influence through the shares held by the Dutch State. That's what this is all about today. My group is quite following the idea that this gives potential influence, but the question is each time how that influence is affected. Now we are talking about the conditions attached to the previous support package and we see that KLM has not complied with those conditions. This raises the question of how the Minister, the Dutch State, is going to ensure that the influence that this 9.3% of the holding company's potential will also be affected, even when it comes to all those matters that are so important to a large part of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u176	We changed this at another time, too. We often use a kind of informal escalation model in the case of influence through the holding company. I can tell you that it has often proved more effective to get a response and a response from KLM, including in the implementation. This has often proved to be more effective than always following the more traditional path through the supervisory board, and a reminder of what the conditions mean. But we also have the state agent. KLM is obliged to work with the state agent's findings. This person is there for a reason. He represents the state, the government. Of course, we fully support him. You want an example? For example, the chairman of the Supervisory Board has said that further implementation of a cost reduction at the time of greedy inflation is difficult. Well, we can imagine that. But KLM isn't the only company. It has benefited from enormous state aid. And there's a deal for that. So this is a contextual setback, but they've been related and it's recent. Of course, that is no reason to say: we are not rushing. Because even before the war in Ukraine there were different circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u177	I hear the Minister say that if we really want something, we will contact Air France's holding company. Yeah, that sounds pretty weedy to me. KLM is, of course, just a subsidiary company, so that's where the decisions are simply pulled away. That's part of the larger French plan. In fact, that is what the Minister confirms. But I was intrigued by a remark the minister just made about the deal with CMA, the container cargoeer. So it gets 9%. If this issue were to continue and we were not to water down, the Netherlands would become the second shareholder by 9.3%. CMA would then become the third shareholder, with 9.0%. But now I hear the Minister say: we read about the CMA deal in the newspaper. That's why I got up out of my bench. Didn't the minister have such a special dependent director on the board of Air France-KLM who knew everything in advance? Then how is it that the Minister should read about a deal as important as the one with CMA in the newspaper? Then something doesn't work very well with the information on that board. Or do I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u178	I don't know if I said it that strongly. If that's the case, then I misspelled it. I said that in our contacts with our board member we followed these last few weeks whether Air France-KLM would proceed to a stock issue and whether or not a decision had been taken. We were working on that element. The discussion about the logistics company, the so-called container company, was also discussed in the newspaper. But of course we also have the channel of the board member. So it's not one thing or the other. A number of you have also observed, and I think rightly so, that there were sometimes more rumours in the newspaper, while because of the stock exchange sensitivity of the information you were kept on the confidential processes of the cabinet through the confidential letters. Unfortunately, it happens often in a world of speculation that sometimes there is more in the newspaper. But we have to stick to protecting business-sensitive information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u179	That wasn't my question. I shall then put my question a little more clearly, because this is fundamental. Suddenly a large shareholder I believe is investing 400 million and a six-year lockup is agreed. These are substantial changes in governance. The question is very simple: was the Minister informed about this by the Dutch board member of Air France-KLM before it appeared in the newspaper? Or did the minister read this in the paper? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u180	No. I said there's a lot written about it in the paper. We have focused our attention on the discussion on a possible stock issue. But via the board the Dutch State has been properly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u181	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u182	Before it was in the paper, or after it was in the paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u183	I do not know what kind of stock issue is in the French newspapers, for example. Because sometimes the French government operates differently. But at least we were informed through the lines of the board. Often speculation is written in the Financial Times, Le Figaro or Le Monde about these kinds of discussions: it can be that. So one doesn't rule out the other. But we were properly informed through the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u184	Please continue your speech, Minister. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u185	The observation today is that KLM has not complied with the agreements regarding different conditions for the June 2020 support package. I'm just trying to figure out two things. What does that actually say about the relationship between KLM and the State? The minister says that she is trying to keep KLM on various routes that it meets the conditions for support agreed at the time. So what does that say about the affair? How are we supposed to see that? The second question is the question I asked in my first term. How far does the political will of this new cabinet go to ensure that KLM complies with the conditions for this massive state aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u186	Very important questions. I can bring up block four. This is all about state aid and the state agent's observation package. I've got a big package on that. But I can also get on the timeline...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u187	Mr. Vendrik came in a little later. But we have a few topics in a row. We have agreed to continue to do the interruptions at the end of these issues. So this subject is still on the agenda, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u188	I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u189	Could I ask one question about the State participation note at the moment? 'Cause I don't think it's coming back. Or is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u190	Not the note itself, because it is not yet finished. I told him I wanted to share it. He's pseudo-deaf, I'll say. But I actually want to start a trial with the Second and First Chambers. I then share it in a draft version after it has gone to the cabinet for a real substantive discussion. Before we complete the note, we can take the input, ideas and suggestions of the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u191	I very much welcome that. Thank you for that. My question was specifically about the course that the cabinet wants to take step by step with the implementation of the new State participation note and its policy. That was about putting the transition perspective at the center. If I make it one more step more concrete, the initiative was launched in Glasgow to make the foreign instrumental fossil free. It took the Dutch Demissionary Cabinet five days to find out that this could also be relevant for the Netherlands. The Prime Minister had called "action, action, action!', And further on, we know the story. Those are the interesting initiatives. That should really be leading my argument in the new state participation policy. Is that right? Is that how it's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u192	It's a pretty bulky document. The imvo, sustainability, the Climate Agreement and the SDGs are central. It's about SDGs and climate. Then you've got imvo. Of course, the energy transition is also included. At the same time, we're not gonna ask a company to comply with everything. They're choices and guidance. But I'll take your question again, because we haven't finished it yet. He hasn't gone through the cabinet yet. So I'll see if the level of ambition is high enough. Secondly, I would also like to say a word about Mr Van Apeldoorn. I am still looking for how far we can go, what is appropriate and what is no longer appropriate in terms of the definition and translation of activist shareholdership of a government that makes choices in certain companies for the sake of public interest. For example, if we look at Schiphol: we are shareholders, but Mr Harbers and I do not want to sit on the board seat either. At the same time, we need to ensure that there are frameworks that make people feel more committed to implementing the policy and making it measurable and demonstrable. That's a bit of a search.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u193	Finally, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u194	I tend to think, "I'll do it if the minister says, "I'll take this." It's always dangerous when a minister says, "I'll take it." All right, then. Perhaps just to encourage you: I did not mention that example from Glasgow about foreign instruments for nothing. The European Investment Bank, also a public bank, of the European home, just passed by. It decided in 2020 not to make any new fossil investments. That was before the IEA report. Very good. These are the steps that need to be taken, concrete steps. Then you make the transition perspective tangible, because you no longer want to see certain activities funded or encouraged through the state participations for which you make that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u195	I don't know if this is the category of "personal fact," but in my former role as Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Minister, I already believe in 2019, or in 2020, I put a stop to Dutch funding to the World Bank and IMF for fossil energy. So it's possible for Glasgow, too. But I agree with you. So I'm really taking it, because it's a conviction that we have and it's part of the cabinet too. But I would also like to pick up your ideas; hence the choice to debate with the Lower House and the Upper House with a final concept, and not even to wait for motions, but simply to see what other ideas and direction and ambition we need to actually make the new note of state participation effective and appropriate to this era and to the ambitions we are pursuing. That's my "I'm taking it," literally. I will now continue on the timetable, which has often been referred to. That's block two. Mr Crone and also Mr Apeldoorn asked: did it have to be so fast? We've known about this for weeks or months anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u196	It's Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u197	From Apeldoorn, yes, sorry. I thought I was wrong myself, but it didn't say "Van."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u198	For the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u199	Mr Van Apeldoorn, with apologies. It had to be approved in just under eight days. He wanted a response: whether we should not have taken more time and whether we had done confidential and/or public justice. You know that we initially looked at the capital problem at KLM and whether it was a necessity for the Dutch State to contribute. That was the starting point a while ago. Parliament was informed and kept informed confidential at the time. We could not do this in public with regard to price sensitive information. KLM indicated at the end of April 2020 that it would be possible to solve the alleged problem independently. At that time, it was not known whether and when Air France-KLM would like to make a stock issue. Air France-KLM indicated earlier in 2020 that it would like to consider a share issue in the long term, but the timing of the issue and therefore, as far as I am concerned, the decision remained uncertain and there has been a continuous shift, for example due to geopolitical developments. There was also a radio silence. In conversations and in writing, the cabinet has always indicated to Air France and KLM that it is really important for the cabinet to be able to go through this good political process in public and that we are therefore giving sufficient time to the Dutch parliamentary process, if or if Air France-KLM would proceed with a stock issue. It has appeared that incorporating this process into the Dutch parliamentary process was difficult for the company. It proved challenging, also because of the timing of the announcement of an issue of shares, to determine them well in advance. That was a really secure job. The company wanted to use the best time for a possible announcement, so that the best result could be achieved. In May, we received reports from Air France-KLM that they might want to announce an issue before the shareholders meeting of 2022 and that they would probably not be able to move an issue backwards, as we asked for; we asked for all the paths. We have decided to inform your Chamber confidentially on 17 May. When that letter was sent, the company had not yet decided to announce the issue on 24 May. We have therefore outlined in the letter of 17 May frameworks which could be taken into account for short-term emissions, without any certainty as to the exact date of any announcement. For example, I believe that we included in that letter that Air France-KLM had indicated at the 2021 shareholders' meeting that they wanted to further strengthen the capital before the 2022 shareholders' meeting and that the shareholders' meeting would take place this year on 24 May. But if I'm reading this now, I can imagine that you'd have to be an Air France-KLM watcher to keep track of it all the time. We also indicated in the confidential letter that Air France-KLM will announce financial results on 29 July and that the company will in principle not be able to announce an issue of shares from 29 June. In this way we have tried in an imperfect way to include your Chamber in the company's considerations and tried to avoid too much surprise. But there was a lot we couldn't do in public because of the price sensitive character, you know. A board meeting was scheduled on Sunday evening, May 22nd. At that meeting, the terms of the stock issue were set. We discussed with the company that after announcement by the company we would immediately send a public letter to both Chambers and that participation by the Dutch State in the issue is conditional upon approval by both Chambers. In doing so, I issued a huge profit warning that I could not make an assessment of whether this could at all count on sufficient political support. Air France-KLM did indeed announce the issue of shares on 24 May. We sent that public letter, like we just discussed. This as far as the timeline is concerned. Is it perfect? Far from it. We have tried to do justice to what may be expected of us, to inform you in good time and not to put you in favour of a credit agreement. It's not perfect. I will always work on improvement. Mr Ester asked me how to reflect on it. It was skippers with a lot, but we have chosen to say to Air France-KLM and also to the French State that we do not give any guarantee, that it is entirely dependent on the Dutch Parliament, that we have to do that weighting and that we cannot give a result in advance. So we've chosen public access over a choice that we'd have to justify afterwards, which I didn't think was responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u200	Public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u201	Yeah, the importance of the stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u202	Thank you to the Minister for explaining the timeline and the past period. I can imagine how this is gonna go. The Minister is right to say that the option of a claim issue has been discussed for some time now. That was one of the variants to strengthen the group. Then I would think: if that second report of the state agent appears in January, unfortunately the analysis of which is still topical now, a few months later, then the cabinet really goes for code red, then the conditions must be played hard towards KLM, otherwise you will end up in an impossible sailing water around that claim issue and you don't really have a story out. Conditions of the previous package are not met and there is going to be an appeal to the State towards a claim issue. Is that what happened in the cabinet? I mean that immediately when Mr Kremers' second report came out, the alarm bell went off, immediately escalated to KLM and it was said: friends, all right and well, when that emission comes out, you have all realized your conditions and it is chiseled in stone, otherwise I have no story to the parliament and to society to get approval for this claim issue. Is that how it turned out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u203	Well, I guess I'd like that... two things. The terms are one story. That's a path. The decision or consideration regarding possible participation in the stock issue was later taken and escalated to the political level. That was not directly discussed in January. Nor has it been discussed with me in that way, if I remember correctly, nor with Minister Harbers. We didn't connect the two of them either. We were busy with the state agent's findings, talking to KLM, talking quickly to the board of directors in our introductory talks. We took office on January 10th. That's been the focus. In addition, there was not an active cabinet discussion far from being about the possibility of participating in KLM-Air France's share issue, also because the discussion on this issue was not so clear and the timetable was not clear at the time. Are you saying that, in retrospect, you could have used that as a greater leverage? Maybe. I don't know if it would have mattered, because in the end it's about the state agent's findings. It should not be the case that we should wave with a possible participation in a stock issue in order to move KLM to do what it has to do in accordance with the terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u204	I get that last part. To be honest, it would also be the best outcome if it didn't have to be that way. But the situation today is that the multiple conditions of the support package have not yet been met and KLM is not compliant there. The way that process is going this morning has also been explained in so many words by the state agent again. Much remains to be done there. Then the group comes along and holds hands. There is delivered in the eyes of the cabinet and then we continue cheerfully. That's weird, isn't it? If that claim mission comes from the group of companies for a capital injection and the Dutch State is being looked at, you say: if you take your own conditions seriously, do you link them together? I don't know why that didn't happen. That seems logical to me if you want to make it clear that you are firm on the conditions already set for the 3.4 billion package two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u205	I understand that it is easy to link this, now that there is a request to participate in a stock issue, to the slow or partial progress in complying with the conditions imposed on State aid. However, we must remain careful: these are two separate choices. When the stock issue came up, I asked: can we in some way set conditions ourselves, even towards the holding company, so that we can also have more influence on KLM? But you can't. This has also been re-appointed by Mr Van Ballekom and others. It just can't be. I was curious if there was any way to find it. At the same time, I do not want to detract from the many efforts made by Minister Harbers and I, through the Supervisory Board, but also through the holding company and discussions with Ben Smith and the members of the Supervisory Board, to stress the need for this compliance to be tangible and for the conditions to be accelerated in terms of sustainability; for an implementation plan to be drawn up. So whether we participate or not, if we do not necessarily have political support, we must ensure that the company complies with the conditions. We cannot count on a possible element such as: we participate in shares, so are you going to comply with the terms now? It is a more fundamental matter. That's what the state agent is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u206	I just heard the minister say: the emission was a kind of fact of life and we couldn't put any further conditions; it just came along like this and we had to do it like this or not. Now CMA has set a lot of conditions. CMA said: we want to invest, we want a board seat and a special board member. They have lock-up arrangements. They can sell half the first three years and the other half in the next three years. They did make a deal. How come they can make a deal for their emissions and you can't? I don't understand. Maybe the Minister can explain that difference to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u207	I have to dive into the process with which CMA negotiated CMG. I don't think we know some parts of that either. This is the position of the Dutch State. But Mr. Chairman, I still have the package and the state agent KLM. That's block five. I'll get to the importance of stock in no time. I would like to answer the questions that have been asked well, but things are mixed up in my answer. I am sorry if that is the case, but if you would like to know further details about CAM CMG, I will have to explain this briefly in the second term. I don't have it ready here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u208	Fine. It is also fine if you refer to a block that is going to come, otherwise everything will of course run through each other. We agreed to that layout. Mrs. Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u209	Maybe I'm beginning to understand why participating in that stock emmission has been disconnected from KLM and why no conditions have been set. I could understand that. We have heard today that the Netherlands has a dependent Commissioner since January 2019. We also understand that the Minister is very pleased with this. The term of office shall be four years. Then I would think that a re-appointment would be on the agenda in January. Has Air France-KLM perhaps threatened to change the Commissioner's status in January, unless the Netherlands would participate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u210	Well, I don't know about that at all. I'm basically saying no, absolutely not. But I'm not familiar with it either. I would like to reaffirm that in a second term, as one of the officials listening in can send a note. I'm not familiar with it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u211	Please continue your speech, Minister. The third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u212	Then I move on to block three, the importance of the stock. Mr Vendrik and Mr Schalk do not want a reaction from me to the motive to buy shares. Is it just the preservation of influence? Can we also retain a lower percentage of influence? That question was also asked in the Lower House. I understand there are a lot of questions. What the hell is 9.3%? Can we cut it down? With that 9.3%, we don't retain any dominant control. As I said before, it's a defensive interest. But it's more than just the formal position. I think we've just had an extensive exchange of information. We consider that it can also have an informal influence on decisions that can be taken. Thanks to Mrs Prast we have been able to clarify that it is also due to the position of a dependent, a dependent board member. As I said to Mr Vendrik earlier, we are also transferring the importance of sustainability. Air France has taken further steps in this respect, for example by abolishing the shorter flights within France on certain routes. The company has made choices. We can ask the company more critically about this. I have already said that we have a representative on the Sustainable Development and Compliance Committee. Among the 5% shares we lose some formal shareholder rights, for example the convening of a shareholders' meeting and the questioning of the board president. If we remain at 9.3%, we will remain the second largest shareholder after France. I understand that Mr Otten says: yes God, okay... I apologise, I say to Mr Schalk. What does it matter if you have 9.3% and the other 40%? The difference between number one and two would be too big. Our estimate is that if we stay at 9.3%, our position as a dependent, dependent, remains. We can then continue to issue instructions and continue to share information. If we go back to a position of 2%, it is really a question of whether we can maintain such an independent position. With 5%, we are below the alleged shareholder position of CMA-CMG. Then the relative positioning of the Dutch State is simply different. It is not quite hard and hard to pin down, I accept the criticism you may have on that, but this is as we see it at the moment. I have another question to ask through the Legal Service about the legal framework and how such a board works. What can change and how is that arranged? We are still waiting for confirmation, because the details are very sharp in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u213	First, round off the block of public interest. Then there are the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u214	Yes. Mr Crone asked me: do you have more influence with this emission than you had? It is difficult, as you have already noticed from my answer just now, to indicate exactly how much our influence increases with a percentage share. We want to maintain the current influence. If we go down to 2% to 3%, there will be a real change. Then we'll really be a small shareholder. With such a low stock package, the picture can also arise that the Netherlands does not commit to the future of the company. We regret that, especially at the moment when a new CEO arrives from whom we have high expectations. Mr Crone also asked: why invest money in shares, when you have much more influence through the aid package? There are still loans and guarantees of 3 billion. As we have already said, the equity stake in Air France-KLM has a different perspective than the aid package. The aid package was really focused on liquidity support for KLM, and the conditions were targeted at KLM. If the loans and guarantees are soon to be repaid, the cabinet will no longer be able to exercise influence through the conditions of support. Bearing in mind the phasing out of the aid and the guarantees, it is important that we retain a shareholder position. Not everything is happy through the support package. Mr Crone, Mr Vendrik and Mr Otten also asked: can the Dutch State require that the Dutch board position be maintained? We cannot impose such conditions, but we assume that the Dutch seat will be maintained and we have received no signal that the Dutch seat is under discussion. I hear Mr Otten sighing, I believe. I imagine you're thinking, "We didn't get a signal," that's fine, but trust but verify, as they say. It is, of course, important to continue to confirm this. It is in principle up to the Air France-KLM board to decide on this. The status of "independent" or "dependant" is also not at issue in the case of participation. The difference between "dépendant" and "indépendant" appears in Air France-KLM's annual reports, so has always been part of the public information. I would like to mention that, of course, we could have mentioned this. It has never been the intention of the cabinet, in these years of discussing KLM or Air France-KLM, to withhold this information. The former independent board member, Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, provided information, but was not allowed to share the pieces of the board with the Dutch State. That's a completely different position now. There is also, of course, coordination. Mr Crone also asked whether it was right that their CEO should have a place on the board that we, State or KLM, never got. It might be good to explain that neither Air France's CEO nor KLM's CEO is on the Air France-KLM board. The only CEO on the board is the CEO of Air France-KLM, the holding company. The CEOs of KLM and Air France are on the executive committee, or executive board, together with the CEO of Air France-KLM and the CFO of Air France-KLM. I hope you will forgive me for not translating "CEO" and "CFO" all the time. Those are common terms. Mr Otten of the Otten Group and Mr Dessing of the Forum for Democracy asked for a view from the Minister on why 9.3% was chosen and not for more or as much as the French State has. As we mentioned earlier, the primary purpose of the stock issue is to maintain our position and thereby safeguard the public interest. We do not think that a share equivalent to that of the French State is an end in itself, and we believe that 9.3% is sufficient. It is also true that, in the long term, the French State, I believe, will have to reduce its shares to 14% by 2026. So the difference is less dramatic than it seems to some. Then I have five, six more questions. Mr Crone and Mr Strien asked what influence these new companies, such as CMA CGM, have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u215	Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u216	Against Strien. Obviously, I'm not getting into your First Chamber enough, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u217	You're always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u218	They said: they only get in because they get influence, not out of charity. In addition to existing shareholders, Air France-KLM announced a cooperation with a new party, CMA CGM, on 18 May. As Mrs Prast said, this cooperation included the fact that CMA CGM is also a shareholder of Air France-KLM and participates in the issue. The agreement has been made that this party will not acquire more than 9% of the shares and will not spend more than 400 million euros on this issue, including buying the so-called rights. China Eastern and Delta Airlines have committed to sell part of their rights to CMA CGM, which will use CMA CGM to acquire the equity stake for the issue. In addition, changes in the share over the coming years have been agreed with CMA CGM. This ensures, among other things, that CMA CGM is not allowed to purchase shares of Air France-KLM over the next ten years if it exceeds 9%. After five years, the board of Air France-KLM may decide to modify it. The cooperation between CMA CGM and Air France-KLM is a commercial cooperation aimed at transporting more air cargo. Ms. Prast asked how the minister looks at claims against CMA CGM about greenwashing. I understand that reporting of possible greenwashing comes from an environmental NGO, Transport & Environment. Like you, I understand the news that this NGO states that ships owned by CMA CGM and operating on liquefied natural gas would leak large amounts of methane. This is hard for me. I have just heard this information, but I am referring to the holding company as a shareholder and not to the company CMA CGM. I can't get that information from Air France-KLM right now. I do understand your commitment and think in broad terms that we must, of course, ensure that companies participate in the energy transition. We don't have any shares in CMA CGM. Mr Crone asked whether European competition law allowed a single container company to enter without other similar groups having had the opportunity to do so. Or, as you said, is this a sample of French industrial policy? Air France-KLM has entered into the cooperation agreement, which, as I said, will build up an interest of up to 9% in Air France-KLM because of the strategic importance of cooperation between an airline and another transport company. Apart from the arrangements made, any investor can register for an issue of shares. In this case, it is up to the regulators to ensure compliance with European competition law by the Financial Markets Authority in France. Mrs Prast and Mr Ester asked whether I think that the discharge of the French loan is a good destination for the money. Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Schalk also asked this question, but perhaps in different terms. In addition to the company's desire to use the proceeds of this issue to strengthen equity, 75% of the proceeds will indeed be used to repay capital aid from the French State. This is in itself good for the company, because this debt entails relatively high interest charges for the company. But it is not possible to indicate whether a Dutch tax money has been used for this purpose. The contribution from the Dutch State can be used to repay the French State aid, but it can also be used to strengthen Air France's capacity. I am not allowed to impose conditions on the purchase of shares, because then there is state aid. The European Commission will then make demands such as turning in slots. I also understand that the picture is not pleasant for many taxpayers. But this is how it happens. The Nanninga Group asked how we would prevent the need to invest more and more taxpayers' money. What is the long-term strategy? As we said earlier, maintaining the Dutch interest in Air France-KLM is not an objective in itself, but part of the policy. Air France-KLM needs to be competitive again in the longer term, also with a view to sustainability and the transition agenda. There is no reason at the moment to expect another issue of shares in the future, but I cannot rule it out at all. Mr Van Strien asked for a response to the cooperation with Apollo. You know that Apollo brings capital into the company for aircraft maintenance. This capital injection will be processed as equity capital, which will strengthen the balance sheet of Air France-KLM and Air France. Mrs Prast wants to know whether there is a possibility of insider trading here. Is this allowed under Dutch laws and regulations? The Dutch State does not act with insider dealing. I would like to make this very clear. It is clear that we are not open to any reproach or unintentional indirect suggestion that there would be a criminal offence by the possible participation of the Dutch State. Because Air France-KLM is listed, the European rules on abuse of power apply, the Market Abuse Regulation, to which everyone and also the State must comply. All those involved must, of course, abide by the rules. I hope this is to reassure this Chamber and, of course, the House of Representatives. Within these rules, it is possible to share information under conditions, i.e. when it becomes public. So we are dealing here with Dutch regulations, French regulations and European regulations. Mr Otten asked the Minister for a view on the choice of 9.3%. Why, for example, not more and equal to the French state? I think I just answered that. Mr Van Apeldoorn asks: can the Minister indicate how the French interest has been taken into account in this stock issue and the purchase? The announcement of this share issue also took into account what the French State would do. The French Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance called me as a probe. I have given the message that we will consider it. I have yet to bring it into the cabinet and that there is no guarantee that the Dutch State will participate. It is beneficial for the company that the French State and the Dutch State participate as major shareholders. A final question within this block is from Mrs Prast: a reflection of the Minister on the bonus of board members that comes into view when paying off the French aid with the stock issue. The board members of Air France-KLM receive a fixed annual fee for the performance of their duties and a variable fee per participation in the meetings. They do not receive a bonus. I think that was referred to the payment of the bonus of Air France-KLM's CEO. Like my predecessor, I believe that, in a crisis, there is really no room for granting and paying driver bonuses, regardless of the unprecedented level, to companies that have also received state aid. We voted against and in total the Netherlands managed to get a few other board members to vote against it. The vote against now had a value of 14%. We shared this yesterday in response to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u219	And that concludes your block of public interest, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u220	The importance of stock. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u221	Fair is fair. Mrs Prast was there before Mr Van Strien. I shall give Mrs Prast the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u222	I was actually standing here because of another question, but now that the Minister has answered in the field of foreknowledge... that is, of course, very nice. We should be pleased with that, but I do not know the exception mentioned by the Minister that you can act if you have knowledge that others do not have, if that knowledge becomes public. Of course that knowledge becomes public. Foreknowledge is right that you know it before others. So I need an explanation of that and also of the ban on tips. Understandably, the question is always asked about the possibility that we will have to go back to emissions in order to maintain our influence. Now I'm a little worried. The French law says that a listed company may not have a book-to-market rate of less than 50% for more than two years. Air France-KLM has a book-to-market of -20%, i.e. 70% lower. Doesn't that give rise to the risk that Air France-KLM will soon come back with an emission?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u223	That's two questions. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u224	I don't know that whole tipidee. I replied in my first sentence: the Dutch State does not act with insider dealing. As far as we are concerned, there is no criminal offence. If there's anything else I need to figure out about tips, I'd be happy to. Then I shall return to that in the second term. I don't have any further information on that. I think tips come from insider trading and we don't deal with insider trading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u225	Has Mrs Prast's second question been answered? Yes. Mr. Van Strien, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u226	In all reply, the Minister has indicated that he attaches particular importance to the informal influence of the representative on the Supervisory Board. My question about CMA focused on this informal influence. Does the representative of CMA not add to the overall influence of the French state, as CMA CGM is half a former state company? Minister, you have indicated that they do not exceed 9%. I read that, too. At least for the first five years they can't get up there. The Minister has all evening indicated the importance of this informal influence with a representative. My question is: what about the informal influence of the French government? I think that influence is now being strengthened by a representative of CMA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u227	If I've used the word "informal" too often... It is a formal status through shareholdership. Of course, informal influence is a derivative of that. Our independent board member represents the State. As far as I'm concerned, the state has a different stature than a former state-owned company. But I understand your question. It may feel, in a concrete sense, more indirect French influence. I can't estimate that, because recently the announcement of a stock issue was. It's limited to 9%. It is a result of commercial cooperation. In my opinion, this is of a different nature than the importance which the Dutch State attaches to it. But I can't give you an insightful answer to that. Frankly, this is the only answer I can give. I understand your concern. I think we should be vigilant about that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u228	I would like to go on about the percentages, the 9.3%. In 2019 we had 14% of the shares. So that's now 9.3%. Is there any difference in the influence there was when there was 14% compared to the current 9.3%? That is the first question. The second question. The Minister has indicated that we could actually drop to 5% in order to maintain the same influence. Is that right? Did I hear that the right way? Does this mean that if there was another emission, in fact the room for manoeuvre is if you do not want a wobbly policy? Suppose we were going to do this emission, we actually say as a parliament, as a First Chamber: indeed, keep that influence. I can't imagine that we'll suddenly find that in a year's time. Is the dilution moment up to 5% the lower limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u229	I said in the Lower House that unfortunately they are not physical laws. Your questions are justified. Here's what I said. If we get below 5% shares, we lose some formal shareholder rights. So that's definitely a lower limit you shouldn't go under. A question in the House of Representatives was also: if, for example, we do 5%, can we get the same thing for cheaper? That is, of course, the essence. With 5%, we'll be number three or maybe number four. We don't know what's gonna happen in the future. We do not think that is strong enough at the moment of possible participation in an issue of shares. Can I rule out the fact that we are not facing the same choice in the future? I don't know. I sincerely hope not, because I don't think we want to have this conversation every time. We want an Air France-KLM that comes out of the crisis, that lasts, and that participates in the modernisation of the aviation sector between the major societal challenges that exist. We don't want to talk about a possible stock issue every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u230	I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for this answer. In addition, I understand that we have now become one of the higher goals, that we remain the second player. If we drop below 9%, we're already the third or fourth player. We don't like that right now. That could happen in the future, but the lower limit is 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u231	Technically, the lower limit is indeed 5%. We'll lose too much. So we shouldn't be below 5%. But the question is: do you get enough stature and influence for your 5%? Our consideration was: no, because there are too many other players.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u232	I would just like to comment on the importance and the comment: let us hope that we will not have another emission of this kind again and then we should have that conversation again. That sounds a little docile. I would like to come back to the Minister's answer to the question I asked earlier, namely whether we should perhaps be a little more assertive and lead the way. The Minister's answer to that question was: well, we chose to keep that 9.3%. But I have not yet heard very clearly why this assertive course has not been chosen. Moreover, the Minister said in her reply: that 23% is a completely different story. But I think there are still a number of steps between 9.3% and 23% in which more tactical choices could be made. So I would like a more in-depth answer to the question put earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u233	I think we choose to be leading with a short egg and therefore not with a long ice. We believe that with 9.3% we can guarantee enough Dutch interests, without unnecessary additional risks. I have already answered your question about 23% by saying that we do not want to keep a coute course with the French. Eventually, they go back to 14%. We were at 14%, but did not participate in the stock issue in 2021 and expired to 9.3%. We want to keep that. I also do not know whether I should check that, so that I can confirm briefly in the second term whether, in any case, if we wanted to increase, state aid rules would force us to rebuild again. I'd like to confirm where that ceiling is later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u234	In this discussion I'm actually missing out on a little bit. I realize I've been missing that all day long. The Minister attaches great importance to the fact that we are the second in the shareholders' pecking stock. In such cases, a shareholder agreement is always drawn up by the shareholders with all kinds of matters on standstills. I understand that CMA has apparently agreed not to increase the market interest, because then, as a Dutch State, we are suddenly no longer the shareholder number two. I thought I just heard the minister say that. Isn't that right? Is there such a shareholder agreement with the major shareholders? If so, what does it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u235	I do not think we could have done that at this stage, if we had already wanted to do so, because we do not even have the formal political support or permission of Parliament. I'll check to see if a shareholder agreement has been concluded in the past. I don't know; I'm not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u236	I'm asking for the following reason. In that kind of shareholder agreements the board seats are usually arranged. For example, the Dutch State is a 9% shareholder and will be entitled at any time, as long as it is a 9% shareholder, to two or three board seats, with a delegate or non-delegate. You can all agree on that. The follow-up question: is there a shareholder agreement between CMA and Air France? I can't imagine them making a $400 million deal without having such an agreement. Then why don't we have them with Air France-KLM? That's actually the follow-up question. I can imagine that this needs to be sorted out, but that is quite essential in this whole situation. The Minister just said: I hear Mr Otten sighing. I had to sigh because you said: we'll assume that we'll keep those board seats; we'll take the leap in the dark and we'll see how it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u237	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u238	So that's why I sighed. Is there a formal agreement in which this can be established?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u239	The answer is no. I'm just getting that through the officials. It was tried with France three years ago. That didn't work. That attempt was made right after the then secret stock purchase. There is no formal shareholder agreement now either. I can take your suggestion, but I have to check to see if that is possible at all as a Dutch State. The second is that I have to check for CMA CGM if they have a formal shareholder agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u240	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u241	If I sum up, the discussion is about all day: we're gonna put money in there now, but are we gonna get influence back? How sure is that influence? Mr Crone mentioned the state guarantees. At the moment Supreme, when things were going very badly, they were extended from nine months to five years. You can also arrange things through these kinds of contracts, not just through a shareholder position. That is quite essential in the bigger picture. Hence the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u242	Mr Van Rooijen is running away again, so the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u243	This is the block I finished. Then I shall move on to the budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u244	Oh, there's Mr. Van Rooijen in the rebound.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u245	I was actually waiting until I heard from the minister that the block was finished. I assume that the Minister will come back to the question about state guarantees and if and when they are possible after 25... will you come back to that later or do you have to do so on this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u246	I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u247	You'll come back to that later. Then I had a brief question on your previous remark. If I heard correctly, you said that if the stake went to 23%, that could be state aid. Do I understand from that that if we went back to 14%, maybe we would? Isn't it? 'Cause we were on that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u248	No. To be honest, it was more of a hand-out to Mr Dessing, because I wanted to answer his question formally properly. We decided to stay at 9.3%, but because its percentage was rather high, similar to that of the French State, I said that the French State should also reduce to 14%. If Mr Van Rooijen wants to invest more money on this stock issue, I would like to hear it, but that was not the cabinet's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u249	I didn't hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u250	We have already said that the French interest goes back from 28% to 14%. I reported that in the first period of interruption. I was a little confused by the answer you gave Mr Dessing. It's not quite clear to me yet. Suppose the Netherlands would go back to 14%, would that not be possible without State aid? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u251	The main thing is, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u252	If I understand the Minister's explanation correctly, the difference between now and not participating is a board member who gives information and documents and can receive instructions. In the situation before 2019 there was a board member, Mr.De Hoop Scheffer, who did have information, but was not allowed to share parts. I assume that there has undoubtedly been an instruction or suggestion from the Dutch State towards Mr De Hoop Scheffer. It remains therefore complicated to understand the added value of participating in this emission compared to not participating. The Minister also mentioned this yesterday as a weak part of this whole story. So I'm gonna try another way. What exactly is the Dutch state afraid of? Is there something we must overcome on the French? To be honest, I'm wondering. What could possibly go wrong? The State is an obvious player in this whole aviation story. Schiphol is home to KLM. The Dutch State is the boss in this country. It can't be true that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u253	I think your question is clear, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u254	What are we afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u255	I don't know if we're afraid, but I think we're making a business assessment of how best to safeguard the public interest of the Netherlands. I mentioned this: via Schiphol, the hub function, economic activity. I have to admit that I was not in the Netherlands myself at the time, but I know that KLM's acquisition or merger was also concerned about the disappearance of flights, about a reduction in the importance of Schiphol, en-en-en-en-en. This is one way to secure that and sit at the table. You don't have to negotiate because you're scared. You also enter into negotiations because you want to secure an interest, that wants to radiate, that also wants to derive a certainty and that equivalence in certain ways at the table. It's a shared interest. It's not out of fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u256	I would like to ask because, in my view, there is at least one explicit example of a player in this whole story who has done some serious damage, namely the former Finance Minister of the Netherlands. It has driven the ratio to peak. I do not immediately have the impression that this information has not come to me through the documents or otherwise..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's not what happened, is it? It's almost the other way around, isn't it? What are we afraid of? What is threatening the French state? Have they been that bad for this group? I don't think so. I believe Schiphol owes a great deal to all those extra flights from Air France.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u257	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u258	What are we afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u259	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u260	As I have just said, we have never made this choice out of fear but in view of the importance and positioning of the Netherlands to participate via KLM on a basis of greater equivalence as a smaller country, including within European aviation, and to think ahead. But I think it would be a good idea for Minister Harbers to explain this as a trade minister when he talks about aviation and KLM from his point of view. But the French always say "il faut oser oser," you must dare to dare. I think we made a good choice here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u261	I think we're at the core now. You can legalize what you want: never works. You can like each other: never works. It's counterproductive if you're abusing each other. I remember how that went in 2019. I won't say another word about it. The proportions were bad and still are, I hear often. But what's really strong is that you just have a mutual interest. We have slots, not KLM or Schiphol. The Netherlands owns slots. They're gonna need it. Air France will never walk away from us and hasn't. As Vendrik said, we've worked together quite well. KLM can't live without the billing systems and everything from Air France. We don't need those shares for that either. I would like to call on you, even at government-to-government level, to make up for the situation. I give it to you and your colleague Harbers, including Prime Minister Rutte. After all, there is nothing to do but clean-up. If that doesn't happen, 23% of the shares won't help either, because then you'll just get wiped off the table. That's what I've been through under all kinds of circumstances. If we don't give it to each other and we don't have a common economic interest, that's what we've got, it's not gonna work. So I'm gonna give you a chance to shoot that ball in the next couple of days, without any legal hair clipping. I'm not blaming you for that. I mean, we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u262	The funny thing is, I honestly don't recognize what you're saying. In political-diplomatic relations there may be tensions, but when I joined Bruno Le Maire, the first thing he asked was how the former minister was doing, Wopke Hoekstra. I had to send the warm greetings. The proportions have always been good. The second is that with this cabinet we have a more pro-European attitude and make choices. This also coincides with the French state's "even better' choice. So there is an even better alignment than before. So I don't think we need the purchase of shares to correct possible trubbles in the proportions, far from it. If you look at geopolitics, it is precisely the French State that wants the Dutch State to participate, from a European perspective. So it is not to solve problems, politically, but to strengthen our relationships even more. I've been working with the French for 30 years. We do not need to exchange here with each other who has negotiated more often with the French, far from it. But I know very clearly what they do say and what they don't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u263	Exactly because of what you are saying, I would like to say to you, Mr Harbers, that he is made of the same woods, and also Prime Minister Rutte, that he is going to have a good conversation, and to say: "We have now invested 6.5 billion in KLM. We're gonna keep everything up, including the slots and everything, and we're gonna take care of it. Whether we have 0% shares, let us maintain that place on the board." If the proportions are bad, then 9.3% is no good either. So let's get off the stock issue. Let's just get this over with. Then you're a whole end, I guess. I'm giving you that, just because you show me you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u264	Thank you for this encouragement. At the same time, I am still here with Mr Harbers to explain precisely why we consider it important to participate in this stock issue. There is still an important fact. Even when the relations were good, it was just a matter of sitting at the table, because before we were never advised by Air France-KLM or the French state if there were any changes. The purchase by Delta and China Eastern, for example, we had to learn purely from the press at the time. So it does matter, no matter how good relations are at political level and no matter how often we talk about, for example, the implementation of strategic autonomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u265	I fully endorse what Mr Crone has to say. You have to approach it in a very business way and take into account a French knife in your back that could just come. So you've got to be business, but you've got to shut down legal matters. I think that's a good idea. However, as I see it, perhaps the Minister can clarify that the transaction of Hoekstra of 744 million at the time was done mainly to safeguard the position of Pieter Elbers as CEO of KLM. I happened to read a financial update from Air France in preparation for this debate. He started with "highlights of the financial year" and the first highlight was: "Pieter Elbers leaves the board of Air France-KLM." What a special highlight, I thought. Those proportions have gotten quite sour from 2019, I think. So, following Mr Crone's remark, how can we make it more constructive? It's a kind of constipated distrust now. How can we improve that? I think this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u266	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u267	I do not want to repeat myself. An additional element is the following. I haven't read it, but when a renowned person, a CEO, leaves the company, you always have news items about it in the bulletins. I think this is the highlight. It is also clear that at Air France-KLM they want the relationship between the incoming CEO of KLM and the CEO of Air France-KLM, Ben Smith, to be a good, constructive and harmonious cooperation relationship. This is being pursued at all levels, by Minister Harbers and myself, but of course also by the French state. That is the expectation that we are also giving to all the parties involved. But you can ask two or three people to work well with each other, but eventually they have to do it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u268	For me, the Achilles heel in this debate is a little bit that we can't really put into words. We can't make it empirically tough. What exactly are the benefits of that stock issue? We couldn't do that at the 2019 emissions of three-quarters of a billion. We are now looking for the Minister who is actually very open in the field of good practices, benefits and examples. I would like to give you a little more investment in that. It's not rocket science; I know that too. But we can do a lot more than we do now. We can really try to get this on the retina, so to make those examples harder; we can make a group of people who specialize in it. This seems to me to be extremely important, even when it comes to political support for this issue. I would nevertheless like to give you a little more energy in that. You're looking for that yourself. We can do much more than just say "it's qualitative," "it's a little vague" and "it's not quite working out." We can take many more steps. I would like to give you and perhaps also ask, as a kind of commitment, whether you can put a little more energy into that. Because I'm sure we can get a lot further than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u269	I don't need encouragement. I do not know if I am going to put my personal energy into it every day; I have a few other things to do, as Mr Ester knows. But this question has, of course, been put by Minister Harbers and myself to our officials. Should this stock issue continue, we must be able to make much tougher what the benefits are against the burden. For me, it is a bit the same as always talking about the risk of the level playing field being undermined or not. It's too abstract sometimes. We have examples of this, but it is not measurable enough. But there are also elements of quality. At the moment we have only discussed this, but the return must also be more tangible. So we've already given ourselves this assignment. Then I would like to move on to Mr Ester's budget. That is heading 4, the budgetary framework. Then I come to the next heading, the support package and the state agent, and then to the other category. Budgetary. Why is the acquisition of shares not relevant to the EMU balance? Oh, that was Mr. Van der Voort. How does the Minister assess the increase in public debt due to this transaction? Has alternative coverage been considered? The share purchase is a financial transaction. The definition of a financial transaction is that we get property back for this, as you know. It's about stock in a company. On the basis of the budgetary rules, it is not relevant to the EMU balance nor to the expenditure ceiling. A financial transaction does increase public debt, as you know, but the financial position of the State does not deteriorate, because it involves assets in the form of shares. A motion was adopted today in the House of Representatives, Mr Van Apeldoorn referred to this in order to assess whether a budget coverage would be provided in the case of financial transactions per case. I already gave it to Chamber yesterday because I had the same question myself. The budgetary rules allow us to do so for a long time, but it is good to look at what this means every time and also at the risks associated with a purchase of shares. The trade-offs made by the government in relation to public finances are included in the spring note, you know. The debate with your Chamber will take place later. I am concerned about public finances, and Mr Ester also asked. It is, of course, always important for every finance minister and the entire cabinet to implement prudent and sound fiscal policies. We have chosen in this cabinet a balance between the major societal challenges with solutions and therefore also to apply sufficient budgetary prudence, but we have looked at the edges. In this way, in the coalition agreement, we have freed up resources for challenges that are coming towards us, such as climate change and nitrogen, but also investing in the energy transition. As I said, the recitals are included in the Spring Note. Then I move on to heading 5, the support package and the state agent. Mr Vendrik, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Crone and Mr Schalk asked: "How do we look at KLM's failure to meet the conditions for aid? Do we want to maintain and if not, what does that say about the significance of control over what the cabinet wants to achieve with the issue of shares?" I'm sorry. I'm going to repeat myself, especially after what the state agent has told you in much more detail. In 2021, KLM made a good start on fulfilling some of the conditions. We mentioned earlier that KLM largely met requirements related to cost reductions in 2021-2022. KLM is involved in drawing up a sustainability plan. We have spoken about the latter in confidence before. As far as Minister Harbers and myself are concerned, this is too slow. The findings that have been shared are solid. Formally, the state agent will report further in his third report for the summer. We are going to talk to KLM again about these interim findings of the state agent, because that cannot wait. As I said earlier, the Supervisory Board has reaffirmed that they are really working on what is still needed to comply with the agreements. The new CEO will also play an important role in this. It will have a very heavy burden on its shoulders: great expectations, but also the acceleration to meet legitimate demands. Mr Crone and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked: "Can the cabinet indicate why everyone received a 5% wage increase, including pilots, and does this fit in with the conditions of the support package? We were supposed to cut the top and why isn't this happening now?" Basically, if the 5% does not fit into the cost reduction, especially when it comes to those with much higher incomes, then there is really a problem. Of course, that includes the pilots. The state agent assesses the extent to which the recent 5% collective agreement increase fits within the conditions. He has indicated to your Chamber that he expects KLM to fail to comply with wage moderation agreements in 2022 with this increase and without further measures. This is very serious, especially at this time. I am formally waiting for the final findings, but we are already talking to the Supervisory Board. In doing so, we will have the clear message that where it is incorrect, it needs to be adjusted. Mr Crone also asked whether all other conditions had been met, such as the lifting of tax facilities for pilots who have been taken home by taxi or plane or have been picked up at the expense of the case. I believe that Mr Crone will, in particular, have targets brought home or collected by air. I have repeatedly made it clear to KLM that the company really needs to come up with measures to stop facilitating possible tax avoidance. That's exactly what Minister Harbers did. KLM has previously announced, after the second report of the state agent, that there will be a working group after 1 May, with results. That didn't happen. This again falls into the category: undesirable. We have indicated to KLM that we must resume this subito and therefore come up with a solution, because this is not explainable. So I have given a very clear message and I think this is a very serious issue, which is next to all the other issues. It does not include tax avoidance or facilitating tax avoidance. This has nothing to do with tax treaties or difficulties between the Netherlands and Spain, but this is something that the employer himself can arrange. We do not enter into the choice of people to settle somewhere, but they will have to bear the associated costs of their choice. That seems pretty clear to me. Mr Crone also asked: if we were finally relieved, then there would be no more state influence, and would that also mean the end of the state agent? And what is the cabinet going to do to keep a grip on the case, so that with and after the support there is a company that is structurally better? It is true: once the loan has been repaid and the guarantee on the state loan has lapsed, the role of the state agent will also lapse. It is primarily up to KLM, but also to us, as you can see from what Mr Harbers and I are saying here to give substance to the role of shareholder and to ensure that KLM will continue to deliver. It is about competitiveness, but it is also about a business model that takes into account the quality of life and the environment. Minister Harbers will also come back to this from his role as Minister of Infrastructure and Water. Mr Crone also asked how long the cabinet expects the support package to be maintained, or that everything be repaid, including the guarantees, to be cancelled. I don't know if we've taken this line completely. Grammatically it doesn't make any sense, but it does. Of course, I am not correcting Mr Crone, but I think I am missing a word somewhere. As is well known, KLM has made a first repayment of the banks' loan facility. And KLM has also publicly indicated that the company now wants to get rid of state aid as quickly as possible. That's what you've been able to read. The aid package itself has a duration of six years, but we expect KLM to be out sooner and therefore the aid has been repaid. Then the warranty will be canceled. There is still a maximum period of four years. Mr Crone also asked: the NOW aid must be repaid, and it cannot be booked as State aid. "I know a few hundred companies who say: if KLM doesn't have to pay back, we don't either," said Mr Crone. "This is a sensitive point," said Mr Crone. NOW must only be refunded if the NOW conditions are not met. The possible repayment of the NOW aid is not a repayment of State aid granted. The NOW and the 2020 support package for the KLM are two different instruments. They can't be counted against each other. This also applies to any other funds to be paid or received. Mr Vendrik and Mr Crone asked for an opinion on KLM's business model. I believe that was the question; I say it in staccato. As you know, this is a stock issue at holding level. We cannot impose any conditions on this as we have done with regard to KLM's business model. But you are right to ask: how are you going to bet a possible equity position for a change in KLM's business model? This is about sustainability, the earning model. So it is different from the conditional package, but perhaps I did not fully understand Mr Vendrik's question. I'm almost at the end of this cup, Mr. Chairman. I still have to deal with the questions about the support package. Mr Otten asked how it worked with the agreements made in the support package. Can the loan be claimed in the extreme? And if not, why not? When in 2019 it became clear that KLM was hit hard by the corona crisis, discussions started on possible support. When compiling, it has always been a starting point that the Dutch State only did what was necessary, and that there was also a bail-in of private parties, as included in our own support framework. This is why KLM has taken out a loan of 2.4 billion from private banks. As Mr Otten knows, the banks were willing to grant this loan only if the Dutch State gave a 90% guarantee. In addition, the banks have committed that the 1 billion loan from the Dutch State would first be withdrawn before the loan from banks can be drawn. This was unacceptable to the Dutch State. Therefore, the agreement was made that the loan from the banks and the Dutch State would be drawn pro rata, i.e. in proportion. The Dutch State wanted to attach conditions to the drawing under the direct loan, but the banks did not accept that there would be a risk that the loan from the Dutch State could not be drawn. We have finally made a distinction between the first and second draw of the loan. At the end of the day, it was agreed that a condition could be laid down for the second draw. This monitored the restructuring plan. The risk that the Dutch State would be able to claim the direct loan if agreements were not met could not be accepted by the banks, as it would again represent too great a risk for them. The banking group was therefore not prepared to make an exception. If such a condition had been included by the Dutch State, it would not have been possible to arrange private financing, no division had been made and the Dutch State should have made the full amount available. The conditions have been extensively communicated by my predecessor with your Chamber, I believe. A unilateral cancellation of loans and the bank loan, as proposed by Mr Otten, is not possible. Then one last one. No, the last one doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u270	That concludes the budgetary framework block, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u271	The block of state aid KLM and state agent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u272	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the fact that the state agent found that KLM had not complied with or complied with different conditions, the Minister referred to the example of the general wage increase of 5%, including for KLM's best-paid employees. It is also a matter of other agreements. Then the Minister says: that falls into the category undesirable. She made that very clear. We agree with the Minister. The only question is, what does that mean? The Minister notes that it is undesirable. She's clearly carrying that message. I can tell from the Minister that she thinks it's really unwelcome. But what instruments does the Minister have to ensure that the undesirable behaviour stops and KLM does comply with those conditions? What role does buying or not buying these shares play in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u274	As I said at the beginning of the debate, we did not explicitly take this into account for the decision to participate in a stock issue. What we have already done is that we have spoken to the Supervisory Board. There's gonna be a follow-up. The Supervisory Board, I believe, has made a commitment to take a look at Minister Harber's report to deal with this again. The state agent will therefore also conclude that if KLM, the board of directors, persists in this decision on the wage increase, also for the highest class of shareholders, then that would be contrary to the conditions. Then there's another part of an escalation ladder. But that goes through the holding company, so Air France-KLM. If you ask me, that was a question that was also raised in the House of Representatives, whether, for example, I can withdraw the guarantees or the loans: no. Because that was part of the agreements we made with the banks. So the ultimate remedy, which withdraws loans, is not there. But it's possible to lean very heavily on the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u275	Reliance on the company means putting pressure on the holding company level? The minister says we don't have that sanction. But what instruments is there? Is it just about putting pressure on the board at holding level? What if they don't listen? Because later, at least if a majority of this Chamber agrees, those shares will be purchased. Well, that leaves us with 9.3%. But if there is no improvement when it comes to compliance with the conditions relating to the previous state aid, what can the Minister do? Can the Minister say to KLM: we have now purchased those shares, but that was once and never again, because you do not keep the agreements? It is simply an open question: what instruments does the Minister have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u276	I have already appointed the steps: the Supervisory Board and the formal and informal talks with the holding company of Air France-KLM. In the past, as I noticed in the discussions with officials, this has often produced a rapid result. This was true, for example, in the progress of sustainability conditions. We're not here yet. But KLM has started the work again because the holding company has put pressure on KLM through pressure from the Netherlands. You do not want to do that, because, as you rightly say, there is such a generous state aid with the help of taxpayers' money. So I'd rather not; I'd rather be honored what's close. There is another internal procedure: the start of an arbitration case. In doing so, an arbitrator must determine the disadvantage to the State. But that is going to be de facto nothing, and then we may be years away, and of course we do not want that. We want action to be taken now and to be listened to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u277	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u278	Yeah, finally. That's what the minister and I share. I hope she also has the confidence that things are going to get better and that she can promise here that she will do her utmost to do so. For us, it is an appropriate point. Because if that improvement is not taking place, then I and my group ask us: why should we go along with this stock issue? Because you do that because you hope that as a shareholder you will be able to exercise influence for the better, and in any case ensure that the KLM complies with the previously agreed conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u279	I couldn't agree more. Can I absolutely guarantee it's gonna happen? No one can do that in this life. However, I have put good faith in the choice of the new CEO and in the way in which it will quickly ensure this approach with the board of directors. That is also a clear message in a repeat conversation that Mr Harbers and I had with Ben Smith, but also with the current Supervisory Board. I think that message is unambiguous. I should also like to hope that some people associated with KLM have clearly seen that the difficulty of the discussions on KLM also stems from the lack of confidence felt and from a declining public support base. We want to know that we are really doing something good and sensible, and that we are honouring and honouring the agreements made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u280	In the debate two years ago in this Chamber with the former Finance Ministers and IenW on the support package...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u281	I thought you said "former"? I'll tell you through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u282	Former, certainly; two years ago. At that time, it was recalled from various quarters that with the total amount of public funds available at that time through the NOW tax deferral, the aid package and so on is not a sector in the Netherlands that could count on such generous support from the government as KLM. First of all, this is understandable, because this sector has been extremely affected by corona. So there is something to be said for it, but the aid was exceptional. You would really expect the group to understand that on that side and that this is reflected in the proper fulfilment of the conditions. Then I can understand that in the first year you'll find out it's a fucking complicated job, while you'll try to keep things going halfway in corona time. But we are now gradually moving towards half the maximum aid period and almost none of the conditions are met. Mr Kremers is going to formally report this to the ministers and to us. In the category "What are you afraid of now?" I'm getting scared right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u283	Can you formulate something a little more compact, Mr. Vendrik?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u284	I ask the Minister to respond to the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u285	Mr. Vendrik, may I make a request to you? Can you formulate the question a little more compactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u286	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. Now I am afraid, namely that the attitude on Friday afternoon after 5 p.m. is finally: we get away with it and we make sure we don't make it six years; then we have relieved the situation and those conditions we dump in the canal, and that's it. I hope that's not true. The question of what the Framework Agreement says about escalation and enforcement is therefore relevant now more than two years ago. We don't know that. But now is the time to sit next to being on top of the group at group level or directly, to address the board of Commissioners and to have a good conversation with penetrating words and eyebrows that go up, to really belong to the cabinet explicitly, or to this new cabinet there is the political will to go hard on it if there is no delivery this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u287	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u288	I am looking at my colleague Harbers, but we have already done that, and I think we both feel that we do not want to have this kind of conversation with KLM too often or not anymore. This cabinet is going to go in very firmly. We have already made that start, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u289	As a finance committee, we asked the agent what instruments the government has to discipline Schiphol. He said: if you have an agreement in the Netherlands and one of the two parties does not comply, you can go to court. Is that one of those steps the Minister is considering?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u290	I just mentioned it. We normally do so in the past, too, using the state agent: conversations, progress and then change. Normally, it's formal. Informally, it has produced a lot of results through Air France-KLM. There is also, as I mentioned, the informal process that we can appoint an arbitrator. That is, as I have just mentioned, possibly the corridor to the judge. I don't know if we can get the results we really want in the long run. As far as I and Minister Harbers are concerned, we just want this much faster. You shouldn't want to take care of this through the judge. It's theoretically an option. Yesterday I was asked in the Lower House what the real instruments are. I replied: we cannot withdraw state aid or loans. Because, of course, that's where you feel the real pain. A possible arbitration case, which may take a number of years, is, I think, harmful on all fronts. But if I understand your message correctly, it is: use all the instruments. Our commitment is to press now, with the new CEO all plans on the table and quick handling and execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u291	Mr Van Rooijen, a short question. "Short interruption" is actually a pleonasm.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u292	Surely I can assume that the Minister will do everything in his power to prevent us from having to think in the Lower House and also in the Upper House about a possible course to the judge? That would be a political low in our society, wouldn't it? Let me be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u293	I agree. Plus, we are all in favour of the rule of law and the importance of a course to justice. But that means that in all areas we have already failed or failed to fulfil conditions in such a way that we are already in a different moment of crisis. Our commitment is to prevent that from happening. I have also placed great hopes with Minister Harbers on the new CEO, who has received a clear change management mandate from the Supervisory Board and Air France-KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u294	You can continue your argument, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u295	Thank you. I have one last cup, other. Then I have two more questions. One is about the tip ban, but I can also do it in second term. The last cup, category other. That's not because the questions in the category are other, but they were no longer classifyable. Mr Ester: are there scenarios for the design of financial and social choices, and what is the Minister's preference and what direction and influence does she have? Air France-KLM's strategy was adopted in 2019. This needs to be reviewed, also on the basis of the corona crisis. KLM's strategy was also based on this. It will therefore also have to be revised. Of course, we intend to discuss this in the Air France-KLM board. The starting point is the Aviation Note established by the previous cabinet. Mr Harbers will tell us more about his plans. Nanninga Group: how do we prevent us from investing more and more taxpayers' money? I think I've already answered that question in another round. Mrs Prast: should Air France-KLM prepare for another zoonoses or does that mean the taxpayer? As a shareholder, we encourage the company to have sufficient financial buffers and to be future-proof. This also means, of course, for future possible crises or consequences of a future pandemic to be determined. With regard to the corona crisis, it is good to note that the effects of the corona crisis on aviation were enormous. The company could not have prepared itself for this, but I acknowledge that Mrs Prast's question is about how with the knowledge of the current pandemic companies, not just aviation, should prepare for the risks of future pandemics whose origin or type of virus may not yet be known. Mr Ester: In this context, how does the Minister of Finance assess the assets of Air France-KLM, which were no less than 4.2 billion negative at the end of March 2022? Air France-KLM's negative equity reflects the impact of corona on the aviation sector. The financial results of Air France-KLM are improving accordingly, but there is still a huge challenge to improve the financial position and thus negative equity. Mr Van Rooijen: Can the Minister reflect on the consideration made by its predecessor not to participate in the stock issue in 2021? You may recall the letter of 6 April 2021 from Minister Hoekstra and the predecessor of Minister Harbers and the decision of the Dutch State not to participate. The Dutch State initially wanted to focus on the capital problem at KLM. We've been talking a lot about that. The starting point was to do no more than necessary. The prospects at that time were very uncertain and KLM had indicated that there was no acute need for strengthening own funds in the short term. My predecessor has indicated that it is very important that the assessment of KLM's capital needs was as accurate as reasonably possible. So he wanted to use more time to gain insight into the expected recovery of the sector. I have two more questions underneath this end cup. Then I have two more questions that were left. Mr Van Strien: why was the merger a good idea at the time? What has it achieved so far and what would KLM's release mean in this context? We believe, like a number of Cabinets before us, that the public interest can best be preserved by keeping KLM part of the holding company Air France-KLM. We believe that it has produced a lot of good and that this will contribute to the connectivity of Schiphol. That's a Dutch public interest. The merger in 2004, with many consolidation layers, was essential for the relatively smaller and not profitable KLM at the time. For KLM, it has worked well in terms of turnover, passengers and network connections in the long term. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked: why can't KLM continue on its own? Under what conditions could it be possible? My predecessor has looked at different scenarios and shared these scenarios and reports with your Chamber. We also looked at what is best for the future of KLM. As I just said, the weighting is still best for KLM within the holding company Air France-KLM. I think Mr Harbers is much better placed than I am to give a value judgment on that. I don't know if anyone's asked about Air France and slots that had to be turned in in Orly. I don't believe it. I think that's a question from the House of Representatives. Then I say, Mr President, we live in the world of Air France-KLM. I have one more question, from Mrs Prast, about the prohibition of tips and insider trading. I promised an answer to that. Until information is disclosed which is considered price sensitive, the person holding that information shall not be allowed to act in the issuer's financial instruments, i.e. prohibition on insider trading, to share that information with third parties and to encourage third parties to act, i.e. the prohibition on tip. Except for the prohibition to share price sensitive information with a third party is the situation where communication is necessary for the normal exercise of work, occupation or function. This allows the Dutch board member to share information with the Dutch State, but also that I can inform your Chamber confidentially about price sensitive information. You are also reminded of the nature of the information and sign as an insider with associated obligations. All the rules above mean that there is no insider trading or violation of the dot... tip ban; increased by dot. The State did not act with insider trading, nor did it encourage anyone to act. I think that this trust must also be expressed by all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u296	Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u297	I had explicitly asked the Minister how she intends to implement the motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Alkaya, which was adopted today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u298	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u299	It calls on the Minister to use her influence as shareholder to ensure that working conditions are improved and the workload of KLM is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u300	I heard a noise, but it didn't come from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u301	It was me, Mr. Chairman. Guilty as charged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u302	I was wondering if the Minister could answer that. Another part of the operative part concerned the new State participation note. It states that the State will do more to use its influence. The issue of working conditions and workload is perhaps answered by Minister Harbers. I haven't heard back yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u303	No, I didn't. The motion was adopted today. At that point, I was already in the First Chamber. With permission, I haven't been able to act directly yet. We're fast, but not that fast. I have previously given the motion judgment Chamber on the assumption that we as a State should use our influence more actively as a shareholder. But we still have to implement it. We need to talk about it. We're gonna have to give that framework. I want to include it actively in the draft State participation note. I hope to discuss this with you, too, in order to improve it much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u304	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. But only after Mr Frentrop and Mr Van Rooijen have asked a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u305	Mr Van Apeldoorn comes from the right and takes priority. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u306	Mr Van Apeldoorn comes from the right... I have to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u307	The Minister had promised me that she would come back to the state guarantees. I'll let you do it in second term, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u308	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u309	Fine. I do have a question about the recapitalisation that ended two years ago. The Minister said that this was well-balanced and weighed. Is the need to give up slots at the request of the Commission, which can then impose conditions, taken into account? We all know that at that very moment Lufthansa turned in a lot of slots and also did a lot of redemptions, which made the company free. At an earlier stage, the company got a huge push because it was in need and accepted it. I have always felt that the whole system of Air France-KLM, as well as of KLM, has done everything possible to postpone it for as long as possible in order not to have to take that difficult, final step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u310	I don't have this question sharp. Mr Harbers will come back or I will take it with me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u311	Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u312	I had asked the Minister two questions in my first term...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u313	The viewers at home can't follow what you say if you don't press the button properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u314	The answer to my two first-term questions has escaped me. The first question concerned the possibly changed position of the special board member of the Netherlands. What could happen? It couldn't be explained by the board anymore. On what legal grounds could Air France-KLM's board make such a decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u315	I don't know if I have the full answer here, but I'm trying. There is no legal basis for the classification "dependent" or "independent." It's not legal. The classification is based on the French corporate governance code. It is up to the board of Air France-KLM on the proposal of the appointment in the governance committee to decide whether a board member is considered independent or dependent. The committee will do so on the basis of the French corporate governance code. This code is not a law, but it does apply a "pass or explain" principle. The Committee regularly examines whether the classification of board members is still correct. There are a few situations where a board member is considered "dependent," for example if a shareholder has more than 10% and a representative on the board, but it also applies to a state representative or employee. CMA CGM is expected to receive less than 10% of the total amount we have already said 9% of the total amount but the agreement has already been made that the board member will be dependent. In principle, the French corporate governance code requires 50% of board members to be independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u316	So 10% is the limit. If you're up there, you're dependent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u317	I said that there are a few situations where a board member is regarded as "dependent," for example if a shareholder has more than 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u318	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u319	That doesn't apply to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u320	We are at 9.3%, but there is also another procedure. If you've been there for more than two years, we're gonna be over 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u321	My second question concerned the deliberations in the Lower House. There Mr Eppink of JA21 had said that if we did not participate in emissions now it would have consequences for the agreements that exist on the hub function and the like of Schiphol. Is that correct or was that a mistake by Mr Eppink? Are there any relationships between our shareholdership in Air France-KLM, in the holding company, and the agreements about the hub function of Schiphol?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u322	The State guarantees provide, among other things, that Schiphol remains one of the two hubs in Air France-KLM. The agreement could previously be unilaterally terminated by Air France-KLM with a notice period of nine months. You know it's been extended to five years. That notice period went to five years when we supported it. So it's directly related to it. But we also gained more power or influence during that period. So you can't say it's part of the deal, but because we've been on the board since then, our opinion is that it also has to do with our shareholder position. So no one is right or wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u323	Finally, Mr. Frentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u324	So it is not the case that the agreements made automatically, if our shareholder position in the holding company were to fall, would suddenly be called into question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u325	It is basically covered by the state guarantee rules, but I dare not rule out the possibility of a sudden change if our position changes. I don't know. But in principle it should not be possible, because it is covered by the state guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u326	Then Mr Otten has a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u327	This investor presentation of 24 May states that Air France-KLM will reduce the Net Debt/EBITDA to two and a half times in 2023. So the debt is being reduced enormously. This is, of course, a healthy development in itself. Now, through this issue, the French State reduces its loans to Air France-KLM by 1.6 billion, or 1 billion: 600 million goes in and 1.6 billion comes out. So there is a balance of 1 billion going to the French state. We're gonna throw an extra 220 million on top of it. One question that has not yet been answered and which I think is very important is the following. The Minister just drowned on the loan terms, but KLM is using less and less of them. 90% of 2.4 billion is guaranteed by the State to the banks and there is 1 billion subordinated loans. At present, only 600 million are being used. So our proposal would be to try, if you want to do this issue, which is a bit of a leap in the dark given the board positions that are not quite as hard as they are, at least to reduce the exposure of that credit facility somewhat. They are not being used after all. Yeah, I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u328	Thank you. Your question is clear. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u329	We know from KLM that they want to get rid of the loan and thus the guarantee facility as soon as possible, but I would like to check with the officials what the route is and what are still technical obstacles.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u330	I was triggered by the Minister's answer to the question about the Tip Ban. She started talking about trust, and then I thought, "Maybe she thinks I meant that there are people among us or at the ministry that are passing on that information." That's not what my question is about. My question concerns the information provided to the Minister by the dependent Commissioner, the insider. Why is that allowed, given the restraining order we have? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u331	I think I explained it well. We're all insiders. We all had to sign. There's no one to act. On behalf of the State, we make the choice to participate yes or no in a stock issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u332	That prohibition is the prohibition that applies to the information giver, regardless of what the user does with it. The dependent commissioner is giving inside information, isn't he? That's the whole idea. If we didn't have that dependent commissioner, we wouldn't know what we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u333	It seems a little strange to me. This dependent commissioner sits there on behalf of the Dutch State to represent the Dutch interest. This person does not encourage action, because that is what the Tip Ban is about. He shares information so that the State can independently consider what to do with the information he deserves. That's what happens. The Commissioner does not say: oh, that is a good one; bet on it. He's not a stockbroker. He sits there to represent the Dutch state and defend the interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u334	Finally, Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u335	Yes. Then one last question. The Tip Ban also means that an insider may not hold a single shareholder or group of shareholders or provide information that is not shared with other shareholders. I still don't understand why this is allowed, but I'm gonna have to take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u336	Thank you. The Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State has the floor. I assume, Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, that your term is shorter than that of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u337	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u338	If I don't, I'm gonna take a break first. I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u339	As long as we're going to the night, Mr. Chairman. No, he'll be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u340	I was asked to take a coffee break from the Chamber, but then I will do so after you have finished your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u341	I will answer the questions that have been asked about the vision of aviation. This concerns both network quality and sustainability. Finally, I would like to answer a few questions about the current situation at Schiphol. Mr Vendrik, Mr Ester and Mr Crone asked the question about the scenarios for the future of KLM and of aviation, in financial and social terms, but also within the vision of aviation. A number of policy proposals have already been laid down in recent years. Firstly, the Aviation Note was published in 2020. This Aviation Paper outlines aviation policy until 2050, which is clear. The previous cabinet has stated that it is not a question of "growth" or "shrink" but of guaranteeing the quality of public interests. That's the lead. The coalition agreement that this cabinet received in January also clearly sets ambitions for these frameworks in terms of sustainability and viability, but also in terms of network quality. We've got the Aeronautics Note. This will be further developed in the context of the implementation agenda. That will be a tighter story, given the provisions of the new coalition agreement in which the cabinet I am planning to implement in 2022 to clarify what we call "security and perspective for aviation'. Security and perspective for the quality of the environment as well as for the interests of the residents, the environment and the nuisance they face. And there is also the importance of having good connections, good network quality, with abroad. This is what the cabinet is shaping this year. It's not gonna be New Year's Eve. In the course of the coming months, the cabinet will decide on this. We are also working on the framework for network quality for the implementation of this network quality. This is also based on the quality of the connections for our country and not on quantity. So that's all that's ever better. The sustainability and quality of life frameworks have also been defined in part and are further defined. In the end, it is up to the aviation sector to operate within these frameworks with a business model that can be profitable. These are many things that apply primarily to airports, but also, of course, to airlines. Mr Crone asked about this framework for network quality and whether Schiphol and KLM would cooperate. We want to take that thoroughly and properly. The framework is now being prepared. That's going to the Chamber this year. We are now in the first phase of development, to give it a good, solid foundation. We do that internally within the government. We are now about at the stage in which we also start the consultation of the corresponding stakeholders, including of course Schiphol and KLM. Eventually, as a government, we make the decisions. Minister Kaag said a moment ago about the business model, but specifically about what that will mean for KLM in the future in the context of the Aviation Note. Mr Crone asked for this: a new business model that is economically profitable and meets environmental requirements. First, the finding that the review of KLM's business model is not part of the aid package agreed in 2020. However, the conditions set out in the support package aim to structurally improve the competitiveness of KLM, including the conditions of network quality, viability and sustainability. Our government guidance on that business model is, as it were, indirectly through the frameworks we set out through the Aviation Note and the concrete measures that are still in line with the coalition agreement. The business model itself is therefore primarily KLM's. But then it comes: in the current and future circumstances KLM can be expected to review its business model in accordance with current circumstances and expectations, such as the environment and climate, where necessary, and adjust its strategy. In the previous report, the state agent made a comment on this: I want to look more closely at how KLM is shaping its business model, its earning model, towards the future. He suggested, among other things, that KLM was in financial trouble in 2020, just like all airlines in the world, because of the consequences of the pandemic, but that at the same time you can learn how to give a little more flexibility to your future earning model. I will not immediately say that you will be able to withstand such a pandemic, but you can think better about the flexibility that goes with it in your business model. The same applies to the flexibility in recovery after the corona pandemic, the question of whether you can have more flexibility in the expectations of the business segment versus other categories of travelers, and of course the flexibility to move constantly and preferably lead the way in terms of the sustainability of aviation. I was talking about network quality, but also about that other aspect of sustainability, the quality of the environment and the reduction of aviation nuisance. Several members of your Chamber, Mr Vendrik, Mrs Prast, Mr Crone, asked how the intentions of Air France-KLM and KLM themselves fit in with the wider need for sustainability and how do we see this in relation to climate change? As mentioned above, we not only want to maintain a good connection, a good network quality at Schiphol Airport, where KLM is of course an important player as the largest user of Schiphol Airport. Through the stock issue we contribute to this through the maintenance of a good information position, but that is sufficiently explained. At the same time, we think it is important that attention should be paid to reducing the negative effects of aviation on people, the environment and nature. As a cabinet, therefore, we are also committed to making the entire aviation sector more sustainable. This will ultimately mean more and more for the largest airline operating in the Netherlands now and in the future. Mrs. Prast already referred to the route there. Then why do you want that through shareholdership if there are other instruments for it? Of course, she's right about that. There are many other instruments. I'll get right on that. In the end, however, it is also important that we not only want the instruments. Of course, we also want the largest airline in the Netherlands to take up its responsibility to proactively implement it in a leading role as much as possible and as soon as possible. Then there is the whole policy on sustainability. The 2019 Climate Agreement contains only a few rules on aviation. The starting point of the Climate Agreement and of all the parties with whom we agreed as a cabinet in 2019 is that the sustainability of aviation and the reduction of CO2 emissions requires an international approach. This approach is international, because aviation is global. It is therefore preferable to do so through global agreements, for example in the context of ICAO, the international aviation organisation. At the same time, in the Netherlands too, the ambition was to see if we could go a step further. Internationally, I referred to ICAO, but of course the European Union makes a number of proposals in the Fit-for-55 programme to reduce CO2 emissions from aviation. These months are also being discussed in the European Union on the incorporation of renewable fuels, but also, for example, on the phasing-out of free allowances in the ETS system, which should include aviation within the ETS in the foreseeable future. This is a very good incentive to ensure that the sector is challenged to the maximum to reduce CO2 emissions. When the Climate Agreement was agreed, there was also national initiative for the Sustainable Aviation Table. That has also led to an agreement. If you take that agreement from 2019, you can see that this agreement is full of ambitions and that almost all the parties involved in aviation in the Netherlands participated in it. In the end, however, it is a roadmap of how the Netherlands can take a leading role in this. For example, the first concrete objective is to integrate 14% of renewable fuels by 2030. Meanwhile, it is also a whole road map of how the aviation sector as a whole in the Netherlands wants to make an effort to get there, knowing that this is, of course, one of the biggest and perhaps most complex transitions in that whole climate issue. There's no such thing as a big jet on hydrogen engines. However, there is a lot of work being done to develop it. So this is not a development that you get introduced from one day to the next. In fact, we have indicated that we want to have a leading position as the Netherlands, but we have very few international control options. If you want to remove a lock for the reason that it is not sustainable, then there is another airline. We don't have any control tools to say that someone else can't have that lock. Nevertheless, from that national agreement of the Sustainable Aviation Table, we have a number of additional national instruments. We have also included these instruments in the coalition agreement. Not only do we have a higher incorporation target than the European Union imagines, but we also intend to set a CO2 ceiling for airports. This cabinet has also taken the initiative for additional noise-insulating measures in homes around Schiphol and for further anti-inhibiting measures. This cabinet also announced its intention to increase the flight tax. It is also committed to a kerosene load in Europe. These are all matters that we have first of all come up with nationally. The state aid conditions package for KLM in 2020 may also be good to remember. That package is also, in fact, a kind of defense brought about by the government. In 2020, the fear was that if your national airline is in such financial difficulties, the commitment to remain part of the national sustainability agenda will go down before you know it. This was therefore also reason to include KLM's commitment to those sustainability conditions, including the incorporation of 14% renewable fuel by 2020. The state agent has pointed out that the KLM has committed itself to the 2030 targets, but that, if one wants to see if KLM is really on the right track, there should also be some sort of growth plan, on the basis of which it becomes clear what KLM expects to have achieved at a number of moments between now and 2030. That's what he reported in the report early this year. That is why Mrs Kaag and I had reason to discuss this with the supervisory board and with the KLM board. We said, "Give us that plan." That wasn't right, but at the same time we also discussed that at the beginning of this year with the board of Air France-KLM, i.e. at holding level, in Paris. I think this is a very concrete example in which your shareholdership also emerges. In the recent consultations Mrs Kaag referred to this shortly before the announcement of the issue, we had discussions on behalf of the Dutch State with the board in Paris. It was also said that the importance and need of a good monitoring plan were seen. At that time, there was also the undertaking from the holding company to ensure that such a monitoring plan from KLM would be drawn up in the foreseeable future. I also think that this is a very concrete example of the operation of the shareholdership, also as a second shareholder. The same applies to the fleet renewal that Mrs Kaag mentioned. At the beginning of this year KLM announced a large-scale fleet renewal, with the Boeing 737 coming out and the much more economical and quiet Airbus 320 coming in. That is also one of the subjects that we discussed directly at the level with the board in Paris, the CEO there, and also with the Dutch board member, who has also worked for this. Those were the comments on sustainability. It is true that we can enforce everything through laws and regulations, although sometimes things are slow and the ambitions of the Netherlands often extend beyond, for example, what is now on a number of topics in Fit for 55. Do you also want to make sure that these conditions, once they are there, are quickly arrested by the Dutch airline, then it will help to sit at KLM's table in all possible ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u342	Does that mean you're going to finish this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u343	Yes. Maybe one or two more questions. There is also a question between Mrs Prast about growth and so on. Mr Vendrik said: why do you only look at the public interest of growth and not at other public interests? It is true that KLM is of course also an important party for ensuring the public interest of a good connection. But for the cabinet, this good connection in the future goes hand in hand with sustainability. That is what we, as a cabinet, are constantly trying to weigh in conjunction with each other. Mrs. Prast said, do we have any conflicting goals? On the one hand, a financially strong Air France-KLM and on the other hand, the development of sustainable alternatives. There is also criticism that this will not ultimately be profitable. At least that is how I translate what Mrs Prast said. The government's view is that sustainability simply requires a sector-wide approach. Measures announced by the Cabinet and measures announced internationally will also have consequences for KLM as the largest Dutch airline. KLM has to comply with this as well. This is still independent of participating as a shareholder. But it is precisely by participating as a shareholder that we can also be involved in the course that the holding company is going to sail. It is not for nothing that we have the Paris agreement and we have global agreements in this area, so this industry too has really understood that the future must be a sustainable future. Then at some point, even when it comes to innovation, you can take the lead. Then you better get there fast, because then you'll also be ready for the earning potential of the future. That is also the message that we are constantly sending out. One final comment within the framework of sustainability. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked how we are forcing KLM to actually comply with the CO reduction. KLM is committed to the objective of the Aviation Note. In 2030, absolute CO emissions should be limited to the level of 2005 or lower. It is again the state agent who, in his second report earlier this year, found that KLM's emissions had already fallen by 4% in 2019 compared to 2005. By the way, emissions increased by 12% after 2005, but they are already below this figure. KLM has the ambition to reduce CO emissions from the total flight operation of the KLM group by 15% in 2030 compared to the 2005 level. KLM is therefore already well on its way to fulfil that condition. So much for sustainability, Mr. President. Oh, no, there is still Mrs Prast's one question about the causality between the size of an airport and economic growth. The short answer is yes. Mrs. Prast is right to say that. Research shows that there is a clear correlation between the investment climate and economic growth on the one hand, and a network of economic destinations on the other. In which direction causality works, it is not always clear. Does economic growth drive the expansion of the destination network or does a larger network lead to more economic growth? There are differences of scientific opinion on this, but I am sure Mrs Prast will know that even better than I do. The effect of an extensive network is also not to isolate one-on-one from other factors affecting the locational environment, such as the tax environment, the level of education, the housing market and the multilingualism of the population. There is no single element to be identified which is decisive for the locational environment. At the same time, a relatively small country, with a very large foreign country, an internationally oriented population and an internationally open-oriented economy, will of course benefit from good air connections. Eventually you'll come back to the national home carrier, KLM, which is important for the intercontinental connections in the network that is again important for the Netherlands. From the outset, this has also been the consideration when buying shares in 2019: on the one hand, the commitment to sustainability and, on the other hand, the preservation of the good destinations, the good connections for the Netherlands. That is the government's consideration in that regard. I'll give you an opportunity for questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u344	Yes. The first was Mrs Prast, then Mr Dessing and then Mr Vendrik and Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u345	I had more questions, but I'm taking one out. I hear an ambition for sustainability and a healthy KLM. I get that. If you bring one goal closer with an instrument, namely sustainability, but the other goal goes further away because KLM isn't hypothetically..................................................................................................................................................... If he chooses the first one, then they should have been more sustainable, we are going to use these instruments for the planet now or he says: let's take it easy, because we're also a shareholder, so we're going to wait until KLM is done and then we're going to introduce those measures? I would like to ask that question and I would like to see an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u346	Of course, that's a dilemma. I don't know if it's a theoretical dilemma, but you also have to choose a dilemma. As I have just said, the cabinet sends out that KLM is leading the way in the sustainability of aviation. Then I can say here that we are going to do that in the future, but I can also look back three years. Three years ago, the share stake in Air France-KLM was purchased. In the intervening three years we have committed ourselves to Fit for 55. In fact, our commitment in Europe is to strengthen ambitions and goals. And the previous cabinet agreed to create a CO ceiling at Dutch airports as part of the Aviation Memorandum. The new cabinet has reconfirmed that commitment in the coalition agreement. These are two examples of which we say: when this dilemma arises, our course is focused on sustainability. It is our firm belief that it is better for an airline like KLM to participate, because then you have the future and otherwise a phasing-out business.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u347	Mr. Dessing, a single question if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u348	Sure. That's possible, Mr. Chairman. I'm hooking on Mrs. Prast. The story is that the sustainability ambitions that this government demands from KLM and from the aviation sector in general are very ambitious. KLM is already the most green carrier in the world. There is an international level playing field, but as the Netherlands we still want something extra, namely to become a frontrunner. That's gonna cost a lot of extras. A brief example: biofuels are five times more expensive than regular kerosene, so that is 20% more operational costs for KLM. Then you won't be talking about a level playing field anymore, will you? Then I come to my question. This has a direct impact on the importance that KLM now also takes financially. You're also putting that stock issue under pressure by putting that earning model to the test, despite the sustainability ambitions that you can have, whatever you think politically?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u349	At the same time, there is an ambition to reduce CO emissions. The sustainability ambition is also wider for the cabinet. It's not just about CO. It is also about emissions of other substances. We also have a nitrogen problem to solve in the Netherlands. If you ask the people around Schiphol, their greatest wish is an aviation that causes less and less noise. Very often, all sustainability ambitions are accompanied by noise, emissions of other substances. In that respect alone, I think it is quite a step forward that KLM has now chosen to use for the purpose of the operation, as I have been told, about the quietest aircraft on the market. That's the area, too. That may have a price, but KLM is not a low-cost airline. KLM has more qualities than just the ticket price or other qualities than the ticket price. It's also about connections, switching connections and the assurance that your suitcase will be with you when you get on the plane. All kinds of other things also affect quality. They can and may eventually have a price. Within that, KLM should of course keep an eye on competition, but good quality can also have a price. But in the end, the choices to perform optimally within the framework of all the framework conditions set by the government and the environment are of course up to the airline itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u350	The Minister just reiterated that the intention in the coalition agreement for a CO-cap for aviation concerns airports. So there will be no CO-cap for Schiphol, no absolute reduction task for KLM, no hard reduction task as we ask of a Tata. They all get a carbon budget. Well, that's what it is. Up there is pitch, feathers and a very high CO charge. That's not gonna happen for KLM. Do I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u351	What will happen for KLM anyway is an in-growth path that will completely fall under the ETS, just like any airline, which already gives rise to a CO pricing there. With regard to the national plan for a CO ceiling, I do not know if I said "airport', because it is expressed as a CO ceiling for the "air transport'. We are currently working on that intention. Different variants are being investigated, for example where you have the point of contact. Is that at the airport or an airline et cetera? That investigation is now under way. As I also promised the House of Representatives, we will be presenting the results this autumn. This is the basis for a proposal on how we intend to implement the corresponding legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u352	Mr. Vendrik still? No? Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u353	A short and very simple question, I think. We have just heard a huge ambition from the Minister in the area of sustainability, climate. But Mr Vendrik and I have also had a little debate on what this will ultimately make up. The simple question to the Minister is: if this emissions continue, will we then see other ambitions or a different implementation of the ambitions than when emissions fail? 'Cause we're talking about this stock issue today. Does it ultimately affect that whole sustainability story? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u354	The technical answer is: when legislation is imposed, it applies to everyone in this sector, whether it is national legislation or the "Fit for 55" package from Europe. I would like to continue with the answer given by Minister Kaag to this question to the Chamber. This is not an exact science, but at the same time I would like to draw attention to the examples I have just mentioned, such as the discussion on fleet renewal and the pressure from the holding company to make the sustainability conditions of the 2020 state aid more concrete and measurable. We wouldn't have had that conversation if we hadn't been a shareholder in the holding company Air France-KLM. The fact that we are and that it is not just one conversation, but we have these talks periodically, gives us an additional opportunity to put pressure on the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u355	I understand that, but the question is whether this stock issue has any influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u356	Here again, I refer to the answers given earlier, namely whether you are going to be the second shareholder after the French State by 9.3% or whether you still have a number of shareholders above you by 2%. Then you'll go along with all the interests. Since my arrival in January, I have personally noticed Minister Kaag who has also noticed that we are being seriously listened to and that something is being done about the matters that we bring to the board, to the board. Mr. Chairman. I had overlooked Mr Van Strien's question. I think I've just gone into that. He said: it is also about the employment of the Dutch; we impose Schiphol and KLM demands that go far beyond what is the case internationally. The government's conviction is that we can bring this together and that this will protect and shape the employment of the future. In this respect, I want an aviation that does the right thing, gives connections to the Netherlands and does it in a sustainable way. We want to guarantee the employment and attractiveness of KLM and Schiphol in the many decades ahead. When I mention Schiphol, I naturally come to the questions asked by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Ester about the current situation at Schiphol. Mr Ester asked in general: how do you look at what is going on? Mr Van Rooijen gave this more specific interpretation by looking at the working conditions. Me, Minister Kaag and the entire cabinet are watching with great concern how things have been at Schiphol in the last few weeks. First of all, we, as members of the cabinet, looked at it with a little bewilderment, because this is the airport that we were always proud of, even if you look elsewhere in the world. Here you could always easily and quickly find your way to the airport. If that suddenly looks like this, then first of all you are bewildered, but in the end it is of course very worrying that this has happened. On behalf of the cabinet, we are both personally in consultation with Schiphol. I've done that myself a lot in the past few weeks. We have expressed our concerns, but we have also delivered a few messages. The most important message is that it has to do with a lack of staff. So you're gonna have to start doing that. That means two things in this case. This means that you have to make your terms of employment, in this case the reward, more attractive as the weather. But there is also, of course, the broad question of working conditions, such as the workload and physical working conditions at Schiphol Airport. We have constantly urged Schiphol to reach a good agreement on this with the trade unions as soon as possible. While we were having this debate this afternoon, I also received the news that a draft agreement had been reached with the trade unions. You can imagine that I am pleased that that step has been taken at least now, because it could not wait another day. There are still a few things to do. I understand that the details will be known tomorrow, but if that offer is there, we need to get into the labour market as soon as possible to see where people can be recruited to make sure that people actually want to go back to Schiphol with this improved proposition. That must also be work that everyone who works there can be proud of, whether in the cleaning, in the security, handling or whatever it is that everyone wants to sign for. That is what the broader issue is about, to what extent, the choice is made for outsourcing work or for bringing it more under the flag of Schiphol. I'm looking forward to tomorrow, too. I understand from the media that the agreement also includes longer-term agreements on working conditions. So I would like to take note of that tomorrow, but I think that this is the minimum condition to ensure that the operation gets back on track. Mr President, I believe I have answered your Chamber's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u357	Thank you for that answer. Tomorrow we'll know the details. A significantly better reward will help, but in the event of a great scarcity, you will not solve a large shortage of supply by merely offering better rewards. The working conditions, you mentioned, also play a major role. The peak of summer is coming. That was also a reason why I put the point at the end to you. I read tonight that in July there may be two runways in maintenance. Perhaps the Minister could say something about this in the second term, because that would have been better done in the quieter first quarter. Did this also have to do with staff scarcity or with wrong or bad outsourcing? I am quite upset about that, but the Minister can say something about that in a moment. I don't know what the president of Schiphol University said tonight in the House of Representatives. We can't follow everything at once; so can you. But can the Minister promise that he will do everything in his power in the coming week to ensure that, apart from what will become clear tomorrow about the rewards, these working conditions are being worked hard? But also that with regard to the big problem of the long wait and everything that goes with it, also for the people who work there and the passengers of course, great steps are being taken very quickly and that we do not think: well, wages are getting higher now, the union is quiet, there will not be a strike in the coming weeks, we will see again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u358	Thank you. I do call on the Minister to remain within the context of the legislative proposal that is on the table today, otherwise we will expand to all sorts of issues that need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u359	In short: yes, the working conditions and conditions I mentioned were a very necessary but also minimal condition for getting out of this misery. But it's not the only thing. This is the most important first step, but a great deal remains to be done afterwards. Over the last few weeks, we have been in constant consultation with Schiphol to inform us about all the actions related to curbing queues and improving the flow at Schiphol Airport. We have, in a way, formalized that in the last week. We are now asking for a detailed report in writing on a weekly basis to see exactly what is being done about it, so that we do more than just keep our finger on the wrist and we also have a title to ask through as necessary as we think: hey, gee, but I think we should add a tooth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u360	Shortly, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u361	Can you promise us that you will put the maximum pressure on that and perhaps inform us after a month whether sufficient steps have been taken? Mr President, I had some difficulty with your remark that it would be out of order. I raise Schiphol because it hits the KLM midship as the chaos continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u362	I understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u363	No, no, I didn't say it was out of order, but I called on the Minister to reply within the context of the bill. He did. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u364	At the same time, I have promised the House of Representatives to provide her with information frequently, so it may be possible to send the same information to the House of Representatives if I inform the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u365	I'm glad you're gonna put pressure on me. You have every reason to. The Dutch State is 70% shareholder in Schiphol. That's an unprecedented percentage. So you have the power of direction. Everything we've said about that stock issue is coming back here. Here you have the power of direction. There's something you can do here. So I'm very glad you're going to do the same. I would like to put the following question and comment to that effect. We spoke to the state agent in detail yesterday. I'm still getting used to that name. It reminds me a bit of the GDR. But that aside. The man does very noble work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u366	That was today, Mr. Ester. That conversation was today. That wasn't yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u367	That was yesterday. Yeah, you can see I'm getting a little confused at this late hour. But his report also shows that KLM has cut production costs by 15%. That was considered a great victory. Part of this is the labour factor. That factor of labour has just gone wrong. Look at the numbers of people who have been put on flex contracts, who had to leave the company or have been outsourced. That's all part of the 15% reduction. So I would like to say a little bit that the company should also look at itself and look at what it has done wrong, especially when it comes to the labour factor. I am very curious to know what lessons you will learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u368	You're talking about KLM again, aren't you? Did I hear that right? Yes. In both cases it does go through the line of state participations. So we are not going to sit in the driver's seat. But we have confirmed, also recently when it comes to KLM, that the conditions include a general reduction in costs, but that also means: the heaviest burdens on the strongest shoulders. Therefore, the conditions for State aid two years ago do not prevent KLM from seeing for itself what they are doing about outsourcing, what they are employing themselves and how, for example, the remuneration of people who are at the bottom of the payroll building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u369	Thank you. It was yesterday in half an hour, so you were right about that, Mr. Ester. Thank you, Minister. Then my order proposal would be this. Half an hour is registered for the second term of office. So I would say: let's continue with that, unless a majority wants a coffee break now. Then we can do the government's second term, and then we will have a break before we vote, because voting lists and so on also need to be made. If the Chamber can agree to that, we will now proceed with the second term on your part. Yeah? A majority is in favour of this. Then I give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u370	Thank you, Mr President. Let me thank the rulers and the officials supporting them for their reply. Let me mention at least one plus in this debate. I found it more informative and enjoyable than the previous debate in 2020. So progress is possible. It's good to establish that. I thank both ministers for that. Mr. Chairman. If I sum up briefly, the cabinet is now asking Parliament's mandate to spend taxpayers' money now, but all the plans and ambitions that could be included will come later. That is at least a rather wondrous order for those who have a high level of budgetary efficiency. I'm one of those guys. The vast majority of the conditions for the aid previously granted have not yet been complied with. That's still gonna happen. KLM's sustainability plan and also the government's plans for aviation with regard to CO are yet to come. The whole network quality story has yet to come. The amendment of the Aviation Note that follows from the above is yet to come. This must clearly have consequences for KLM's business model. Otherwise something will go wrong here, I say to the cabinet, but they will certainly realize that. This is not just about the need for flexibility to respond better to events such as corona, as Mr Kremers puts it. It is at all a completely different model in the future of sustainable aviation. We don't know exactly how that works out. That must be clear. But we're already gonna put public money into the group, and that's not the first time. We know how much aviation is provided on all sides with implicit and explicit subsidies, tax or otherwise. That's a tough story. And then, when I listen to how the ministers are trying to justify this issue, I have to look very carefully at the response and in the debate where exactly the added value of an emission participation worth EUR 320 million is present. I repeat: that is 220 plus the unachieved benefit of cashing in the right to buy, worth an estimated 100 million. That seems to me to be the right look at the budget, hence the 320 million. I agree with the Minister for Finance: it is a weak proposal. I would think that market companies, not natural monopolies such as a TenneT or a Gasunie, but market companies such as KLM, can have very good reasons for public participation, including claims issues such as this. But you only do that when you clearly define the public interest, and as far as our group is concerned, it's always about the transition. There's no other way at this time. But that is not the case today, because the plans are not yet in place. The ambitions are not on the table. The conditions were not complied with. Enforcement is unclear. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has thus come up with an unbelievable story. I shall therefore propose to my group that we vote against this supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u371	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Crone, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I very much agree with Mr Vendrik's words of thanks to both directors and, by the way, to their mutual support, especially because I have experienced this as a pleasant and open debate. I have seen this differently in the past with the two predecessors. We're not here yet, but I'm serious about this. So that's fun. The first is what Mr Harbers said. I'm going to go into that briefly, because he's going to do all the good things; that's what he promised. There are good plans about network quality and so on. I said myself that this is not about maximum growth, but about high-quality growth, and he has done it well. So the secret is in the future; I'll keep it short. Next time, you will have a lot more time than your colleague in the Treasury, because that is about network quality and the public conditions surrounding it. You will see this commitment from us as a support in the conversations with KLM and with everyone else, because they are not going so fast. They choose the maximum. Let me give you the example of silent aircraft. They say if we have silent planes, we can fly much more at the same sound room. Well, that's still complicated; we haven't quite figured that out yet, I guess. So I would like to save the follow-up for a discussion with you, but see this as support for the good policy you have put in place. The secret is in the future. You're optimistic, too. We're gonna take the lead on all these things, right? The Netherlands always says it's "gonna lead the way" with all kinds of things, but we're in the back of all statistics, except now with the solar panels. So we will keep this promise to you. Then the Minister of Finance. I would also like to thank you very much for your views on state participation policy, which are also coming up. We came from the time of Salmon; that's how old I am. It used a completely digital separation. I also heard Mr Van Ballekom say this: you should not interfere with policy through shares, because there are other instruments for this, such as permits, standards and subsidies if necessary. I have always said that there is no such thing, because more than half of the economy is public-private cooperation. Think of care, education and the energy sector, but also of this sector. In that you can't do it with just directing on framework conditions while the shareholder or the shareholder. the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board continue to do so alone. That is the second point. People always think you're the boss when you're a shareholder, but you never really are, except in a one-man business. We always have structural partnerships, with all the regulations around them and whatnot. So the boss, especially in the operations, the management and the supervisory board, and also in the policy. That's what the minister just said. But I'm very much in favour of shareholder agreements, because you can record a lot of things in advance. I hope you'll pick that up in your note. I would like to refer you to a great deal of input from Mr Vendrik and myself on this issue. We have not convinced Salmon, but we remain optimistic. But the seriousness of this debate, Mr President. We now have a beautiful company, which unfortunately has lost control of itself. That's the sad part. I started doing that in the first term, too. They don't have a strategy. The warden says he's only looking three months ahead. I can't blame you for that, but the company is too important to leave it that way. We stand for the public network and environmental conditions. My final conclusion is that our hardest influence doesn't go through stock control. The Minister is right to put that into perspective. Our strongest influence lies in the conditions that we have and have been able to impose in exchange for state aid. That's our leverage. That's gonna go on for a while. I'm different at one point from the Minister. At least the minister wasn't quite clear about it. The State guarantee is truly linked to the State aid package and not to the share ownership. That's what the state agent confirmed this morning, and that's how we've always been told. So even if the state aid package were to expire tomorrow, the State guarantee would stand. But I see you nodding now, so I may have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u373	Do you keep an eye on the clock, Mr. Crone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u374	Yeah, I'm almost ready. Then the second. They'll need the financial guarantees for a while. They haven't called it in yet. They have a lot of money now because of the prepaid tickets, but that can just turn around again. So we're gonna be at the ball for a long time. I would also like to do that, because it allows us to demand compliance with the conditions. As far as I am concerned, there is a point of pain in this area. KLM has not complied with the conditions, because they would have done something with the pilots and the tax avoidance; it is, in part, symbolic. They just don't do it. They wait as long as we call them to order. So you also see our input as support to continue to do so and to do so with the state agent. Again, it doesn't matter how many shares you have. I repeat what I just said: it's human work; you give each other something or you don't. The interests are decisive and we stand strong because of our good company Schiphol, the slots and the huge state aid. I'm really hearing reports that the proportions weren't right. So I'm really calling you to the following. There's a new cabinet now. Clean up. I trust you. I already told you. I give you, including the Prime Minister, better relations so that Mrs. Rintel can make a clean start. After all, she's getting an inheritance that she can't help. You will see our input as support for that. I hear from everyone, including in my constituency: "Enough is enough. Draw a line. Don't give them money again."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u375	Mr. Crone, I'm really gonna ask you to finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u376	I quit. So we are not going to vote in favour of the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u377	Look at the clock for the next time you register. Then you can just sign up for five minutes. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both ministers for their reply. It was indeed a pleasant debate. I agree with the previous speakers. The debate began under a not so well-starned. Indeed, it has been a great deal about the state agent's findings, because KLM has not complied with all the commitments, the conditions laid down, in the previous state aid. That's gloomy, and it's also skeptical. But the Minister has made it clear that she also finds this unacceptable. I think both ministers have made that clear. The Minister also said that she would make every effort to persuade KLM to comply with these agreements. I think she has mentioned four times the new CEO, the chief executive officer. We will not take care of Mrs Rintel that this will happen in the future, but we will take care of the Minister. In the end, it is a question of how we, as a Dutch State, actually use our potential influence and actually effect it. I referred earlier to a motion by my colleague, Mr Alkaya, which was adopted today in the House of Representatives, calling for the new State Participation Policy Note to be expressed, in order to see how we can increase the influence of state participations in the future. The Minister has said that this motion has only just been adopted, so I cannot yet go into how I intend to implement it. But the Minister did give the motion judgment Chamber. This also applies to the other operative part, which has also been discussed a great deal today. That motion concerned the chaos at Schiphol, the improvement of working conditions and the reduction of working pressure. If the Minister gives a motion judgment Chamber, then the Minister considers the motion enforceable; at least, so read and understand. So we also assume that it will be carried out. So we're looking forward to seeing that. We're gonna keep an eye on that, and we're gonna take care of the government. Ultimately, the question is how best to safeguard the public interest. This public interest is certainly also sustainability, cleaner aviation and better working conditions for people in the workplace. In the end, my group believes that this public interest can be less well secured, even if it is not a rocket science, if we let that interest be watered down to 2%. That is why I will advise my group to vote in favour of this supplementary budget, despite all our concerns and our scepticism. I therefore wish the two ministers every success in improving the situation in this respect, so that the KLM becomes a cleaner and more social company than it is today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u379	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u380	Mr. Chairman. This is not an exact science, we heard the rulers regularly today answers to questions from this First Chamber. No, this is business. After this debate, we conclude that on the part of the Dutch State, deals are done mainly on the basis of wishful thinking and the accommodation of other business partners. On many questions, Minister Kaag's answer was: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is the difference between the French and Dutch approaches. The French have a master plan, they are good technocrats and they effectively regulate their national interests. This cabinet prefers to take a leap in the dark of 220 million, trusting that it will all be okay with the Dutch positions on the board. Mr. Chairman. We are rather surprised that there seems to be no shareholders' agreement between the major shareholders, including the Dutch State, and Air France-KLM. This seems to us to be quite basic in the case of such a transaction and in the case of such amounts. Mr. Chairman. The French government invests 650 million in the claim issue and receives 1.6 billion from the proceeds of the claim issue. The Netherlands thus increases its total exposure to KLM and Air France-KLM by 220 million to 3.4 billion euros, i.e. 3.2 billion, because of the partly unused loans. We don't think that's wise. That is why we have the next motion, Mr President. The: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to participate in Air France-KLM's claim issuance of approximately EUR 220 million in order to maintain the Dutch State's 9.3% stake in Air France-KLM;]] [[whereas in 2020 the Dutch State provided a subordinated loan of EUR 1 billion to KLM, which guaranteed the Dutch State 90% of EUR 2.4 billion of revolving credit facility provided to KLM by a syndicate of banks;]] [[whereas KLM currently uses only around EUR 600 million of these loans granted and guaranteed by the Dutch State and KLM has recently repaid EUR 311 million;]] [[noting that Air France-KLM announced on 24 May 2022 that it would pursue a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.0x to 2.5x for 2023;]] [[whereas approximately EUR 1.6 billion of the proceeds of the claim issuance by Air France-KLM is used to repay a loan from the French State and the French State therefore significantly reduces its total exposure to Air France-KLM, while the Dutch State increases its exposure by EUR 220 million by participating in the claim issuance;]] [[calls on the Government to act in consultation with KLM on the possibility of reducing the total amount of outstanding loans and guarantees granted by the Dutch State to KLM by at least EUR 500 million by the end of 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36108-A]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u381	Mr. Chairman. If, according to the cabinet, we really have to participate in this issue, then our advice would be: at least make sure that your exposure is slightly reduced to your total exposure on the group and the KLM. These facilities are not being used anyway, and the company has announced its intention to reduce the debt significantly. That seems to us to be a business approach. We also hope that the government will understand that. We therefore hope that this motion for a resolution will be given Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u382	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Then Mrs Prast has the floor on behalf of the Party for Animals. But not after Mr Vendrik has been able to put another question to Mr Otten, who is now heading back to the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u383	It is always special to see Mr Otten in a debate. But I actually missed the last three sentences from his contribution. What is the assessment of the proposed claim issue, the participation, the legislative proposal that is now before us? What will his group do?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u384	That's what I said: we're just waiting for the cabinet's assessment of our motion. If you do... the Cabinet is convinced that this is the right approach. Like Mr Vendrik, but for other reasons, I have some doubts about that, given the board position. Of course, that's all extensive... It's a bit of a leap in the dark, because you don't really have a hard shareholders' agreement with all kinds of rights. I would have handled that differently myself. Anyway, that's a crossing station now. That's why our idea was: go, like the French, at least reduce your exposure a little bit on the whole group. If you put $220 million in it, at least get some off that unused facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u385	Do you have an answer for Mr. Vendrik yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u386	So I'm waiting for what Minister Kaag has to say. Then we will pass our final judgment. I say that to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u387	Mr. Otten is still waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u388	It's gonna be a third or maybe a fourth term; I hear it. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u389	Or an explanation of vote. You can still do that, can't you? Thanks to Mr. Otten. Then Mrs Prast has the floor on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the ministers for answering, in my case, almost the whole list of questions. That is not always the case. I'm very happy about that. I am not saying that I am happy with what has been said, but that is another question. I'm very glad everything has passed. Everything's passed, except for one thing. I will not repeat that question now. But I'll frame it a little bit differently. Actually, I'd like to ask for a commitment. I had asked: how do the ministers look at the lower fares that Schiphol charges for switching passengers, Schiphol, State participation, and the fact that transfer passengers do not pay a flight tax? I actually want to change that into: can the ministers promise that they will look into the possibilities of doing something about this treatment of transfer passengers, so that there will be an end to what I call 'prejudice' or'stimulation'? I am not asking them to put an end to that, but to look at it and report back to the Chamber. Mr President, my final conclusion. I have asked on behalf of the Animal Party what exactly is the public interest that is not served sufficiently if the Dutch State does not buy shares. I agree with Mr Vendrik: there may be good reasons to intervene. I have not heard them in the sense that, as far as I am concerned, they are decisive. I will therefore advise my group to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u391	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. Mr Van Strien has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their comprehensive answer to the questions. Has all the doubt now been removed from the PVV Group? No, I'm afraid not. Our main concerns remain in the uncertainties about how Air France-KLM will make the company truly healthy in the future. Is there going to be another emission? Are any parts being disposed of? Is the whole of KLM gonna get thrown out sometime? These are all questions where we have too little influence on the answer. However, saying no to this bill, against participation in this issue, means the same thing as throwing the towel in the ring, and we do not want that. There is too much employment involved. Too great economic interests have been served for the Netherlands. If we put this investment, because it is an investment with great risks, against the 10 billion that we lost annually to mass immigration I hadn't made that comparison in my first term.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u393	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Frentrop, on behalf of the Ferrtrop Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u394	Mr. Chairman. I learned this long evening what the Dutch government's policy is with regard to participation in Air France-KLM. That policy was from 2004 to 2019, for 15 years: we do not want shares. In 2019 the policy was: we want as many shares as the French state. That was 14% back then. After that, the policy was: well, it really doesn't have to be. At that time, we reduced our interest to an accidental 9.3%, even though it reduced us to the 10% that our special Commissioner would secure. In 2022, the policy is: hey, that 9.3% is actually the perfect percentage to guarantee the public interest; we need no more and we need no less. To stay exactly at that 9.3%, we are going to spend EUR 220 million. That money goes to the French state. What do we buy for the 220 million? I didn't really understand what we're buying now. I have heard a new reason, which I can understand. The Minister said: through the interest in that holding company we have an informal escalation channel. In other words, if officials in Amstelveen do not hear from the management of KLM, they can still try to get a hearing through Paris. That is not good governance in the Netherlands, I think, my group believes. If officials fail to respond, the minister should call KLM's CEO. That doesn't cost 220 million. Mr. Chairman. The quality of legislation and budget law are the focus of this Chamber. I wanted to close by making a prophecy. I predict that next year, around this time, the General Court will look critically at the effectiveness of this publication and will judge it critically. Then at home, reading the paper, I'll say to my wife, "See, I told you so." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u395	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u396	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the two ministers for their reply. Minister Kaag has spoken for a very long time. I would like to thank her very much for the comprehensive, thorough, complete and frank answer. Let me just say that. It's obvious what I mean, even when I look back. Mr. Chairman. I had asked the question about the state guarantees in the first period, and the Minister will come back to it or the Minister will be able to indicate how the State guarantees will continue to be guaranteed after 2025. I would add: what approach does the Minister intend to take to extend these State guarantees and will the Minister consult with the holding company's board in good time? My group would consider it very sensible and very important that we should not be presented with unpleasant surprises, especially now that we are voting on this investment today. I would like to thank Minister Harbers for answering our questions on civilised working conditions and working conditions. The first is reasonably satisfied, perhaps. We'll know tomorrow. Working conditions require a longer approach. Do I understand from the Minister that he now undertakes not only to inform the Lower House, but also the Upper Chamber? We, as the First Chamber of Parliament, would also like to have information, I think, on what major steps have been taken towards a solution within a month. If it didn't happen, then we're going through a very annoying summer for passengers, staff and for the whole company, KLM and Schiphol. Then, too, the reputation of us as an open country of quality is compromised. My group will also support this proposal. I'm just gonna say it now. It's weighing up. I agree with what Mr Van Strien said. A lot of investment has already been made. You can't say now: we're going to take a step back. We really want to continue along this path. There's no turning back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u397	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, of course, to both ministers for their reply. I have a few comments to make. We have discussed in detail the importance that is being sought, 9.3%. I do not need to add many words to that. We have also understood that there is a lower limit of 5% in order to maintain sufficient influence in any case, even in the future. My question to the Minister would still be whether she can confirm that this is the starting point, so that next time we do not have to think again whether or not we want to water down, but that we at least indicate in a manner of speaking for the years to come that we are choosing influence. This means that we should also consider what percentage of importance should be maintained in the case of subsequent emissions. There was one remark from the Minister that I found somewhat debatable. It was about the 75% that goes to the French state treasury. The Minister states that she cannot say whether that is the Dutch money that goes to the state treasury. I don't think that's how it works. There's a stock issue. There's gonna be a lot of money. You can't say: this euro is from the Netherlands, so that doesn't go there. 75% of Dutch money simply goes to France. That will have to be explained somehow to the citizens of this country. Mr. Chairman. I had one more comment on something that perhaps was not well understood in the little debate with Minister Harbers. That was about the impact we have on sustainability. The Dutch ambition is very clear. Does this Dutch ambition change in the stock issue, yes or no? Finally. I mentioned the risk of evaporation. I see that as an occasional risk. The risk of dilution is a structural risk. For the SGP group, it is clear that we do not want to run that structural risk. My group will therefore vote in favour of this issue of shares. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u399	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Ester on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u400	Mr President, thank you. We look back on a long, but good content and yet pleasant debate. Thank you to the two rulers for answering our questions. Thanks to the official staff, too. I am always deeply impressed by the quality of the Dutch civil service. That too has proved to be the case tonight. I am not going to repeat my argument from the first term. The Christian Union Group lets me say that, and I am confident that the cabinet will take everything out of the box to allow the broad prosperity perspective to land. That's what's needed. The public interest must be safeguarded. We will closely monitor that process as a group. The line of this debate is clear, I think. Don't just focus on business performance, but also on sustainability, viability and network quality. Operationalise this societal objective in a clear way. That is very essential in our view. I give and I gave the directors to invest much more in determining what is actually the positive returns of that stock issue. This may not always be possible according to quantitative models, but we can do a lot more than we are doing now. I think that is extremely crucial for the social impact of this decision tonight. It's a lot of money, and we're gonna need a lot harder evidence. We also need a clear vision of the future of KLM's business and earning model. That too has been discussed in detail. We also need to look at fleet restrictions, flight restrictions, and the reduction of noise and CO emissions. As a second shareholder, and we hope to remain so, we have steering power and influence. The same applies to the improvement of working conditions. I briefly went into that later. Mr. Chairman. All things considered, the Christian Union Group votes in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u401	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Dessing on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u402	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I thank both ministers for the open and honest answers. I would like to thank my fellow Members for a good substantive debate. It will be clear: the Group of the Forum for Democracy is in favour of a strong position of KLM in the Air France-KLM holding. We believe that the strengthening of the position of this stock issue is essential and we will therefore support it. The answers to the question as to how far sustainability requirements are going with that economic position because of the stock issue are not yet entirely to our satisfaction. A discussion on this will undoubtedly follow in the aviation debate that we are going to have with each other. I will be following this debate with great interest and I will certainly take part in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u403	Thanks to Mr. Dessing. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Ministers, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Yeah? I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u404	Mr. Chairman. If I am correct, two questions have been put to me and two questions have been put to Mr Harbers. Mr Schalk initially asked if I could confirm that we want to maintain influence over the coming years. Yes. Then he asked if I could say we'll never come back here again, because there's no risk of dilution. I can't say, but of course we want to retain influence. I hope, however, that we do not have to have this kind of debate every time or too often. Then there is a question from Mr Van Rooijen. What will you do if the state guarantees expire in 2025? They don't end up in 2025. It's a five-year notice period. Only when Air France-KLM calls for this notice will the period of five years run. After this five-year period, the State guarantees would expire. So far, Air France-KLM has not terminated these State guarantees. Then I'll go straight to the Otten c.s. motion. on a piece of letter A. I refer to the operative part: calls on the government, in consultation with KLM, to take action on the possibilities of reducing the total amount of outstanding loans and guarantees granted by the Dutch State to KLM by at least 500 million by the end of 2022. In 2020, agreements were made with the banks and KLM, as Mr Otten knows, on the granting of a loan guarantee. At present, the so-called direct exposure under the loan and the guarantee has been reduced by the recent payment of 311 million. At present, 277 million are outstanding on the direct loan and 354 million under the RCF. The repayment has been agreed, a sub-ordination agreement, whereby it has been agreed that the banks must be repaid before the loan of the Dutch State is repaid. It is not the time to return to agreements made in 2020 that have provided the company with the necessary support to get through the crisis. A mechanism has also been included in the bank loan which requires KLM to repay if the cash position is too high. There is therefore already a protection in the documentation if KLM does not need liquidity. On that basis, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u405	Thank you, Minister. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u406	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Two more questions. Mr Schalk made his question very specific: whether our ambition for sustainability will change when we participate in this issue. The answer is no. The ambition doesn't change, it stands. The answer later was about how we could contribute to this further through shareholdership. Mrs Prast indeed recalled that I forgot to answer one question. She was so smart to ask for a commitment, but I'm a little strict about that. I'm not doing that yet. There is a reason, also in substance, why we do not tax transfer passengers in this way. You can see worldwide that passengers everywhere are important to maintain a good network with sufficient intercontinental connections, even with sufficiently frequent flights. Worldwide, countries see the importance of transfer passengers. These transfer passengers can also change at foreign airports. The transfer exemption prevents transfer passengers from paying double, i.e. at the airport of departure and at the transfer airport. That was, of course, the issue that Mrs Prast mentioned in her first term: what does the Netherlands have to pay for it and what does it have to pay for it? In my opinion, we also have advantages, because it ultimately results in the Dutch traveller having a much more than average number of destinations that he can reach directly compared to countries of similar size. That is why we do not focus on those transfer passengers, but we do, as has been explained in the first implementation, come forward with further thoughts on the destination network and its network quality. As indicated, the cabinet decides on this later this year and submits proposals to both chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u407	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u408	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I suggest that we now vote on the bill, without suspension, if you will agree. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u409	We are very reassured by the answers we have just received from the Minister of Finance. Apparently, there is a very good arrangement in that facility. We were not aware that it ends with extra cash. That's very good news. So the exposure is already falling back. On that basis, we decide to hold our motion for the time being. So it doesn't have to be in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u410	To hold or to withdraw?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u411	We'll hold the motion until we're clear... we can always come back to it later. For now, we'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u412	You're holding the motion above the market for a moment. Can the Chamber agree to that? Then the motion will be removed from the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-31-eerstekamer-12.u413	We are now going to vote on the legislative proposal 36108 on the Third incidental supplementary budget for Air France-KLM's equity issue.
