ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the government statement. I recall that speaking time includes that of the second term. I give the floor to Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Both internationally and nationally, our democratic rule of law is under pressure. If Russia were to invade Ukraine, it would be a flagrant violation of international law. I ask the Prime Minister to update us during the day on the diplomatic efforts to de-escalate that conflict. But our European Union is not that community of values, as we often say it should be. That was discussed extensively in this house last week. One example, the bug scandal in Poland, shows once again how much the problems also exist in our own European Union when it comes to the violation of the rule of law. Then the situation in our own country. The cabinet comes at a time when people's confidence in politics and the rule of law has reached a low point. We've had the childcare allowance. We've had the problems at the IRS, where people are judged on the basis of their looks. We've had the problems of treating people in the earthquake area in Groningen. We've got the problems in youth care. We have the problems in the implementation organisations. All these incidents may bring you together to the sad but harsh conclusion that the general principles of good governance are abandoned at a number of crucial moments. These principles sound so normal, because they concern the principle of legal certainty. It is about the principle of proportionality. It concerns the principle of proportionality. It is about the principle of preventing abuse of power and arbitrariness. It's about the fair share, the each-his-own-share principle. Those principles are, of course, extremely important and, at the moment, we have to say that these general principles of good governance are not leading throughout public policy, it is the citizen who does not have the position he should have in relation to the government. The coalition agreement speaks a number of worthy words in this area. The coalition agreement says that we need more transparency and debate. But that's not really enough, is it? Surely we must ask the Prime Minister for a situation where these general principles of good governance are guiding all government policies? In that area I read an article by former Ombudsman Alex Brenninkmeijer. He said that the first sentence of the new coalition agreement should actually read as follows: "All government policies can be tested for good governance. The results of legislation, implementation and legal proceedings must always be well-organised, and legislators, practitioners and judges are always accountable for this." Wherever I was looking in the coalition agreement, it certainly isn't there. And I am not talking about the toe-curving and dragging formation process that we have been through, because that too has only further embarrassed confidence in politics. You have a baby in this country, including the conception, rather than a cabinet. That's something to think very carefully about. I spent last year in another room, but in the First Chamber, I kept a story about the key words "vision, connection, trust." I argued there that, despite all the differences of opinion, the parties have a bit more in common with each other on the left from the centre and right from the centre than there is a separation. There's more to us than what separates us. That was at the heart of my speech. I said that this is the fundamental difference of opinion with those parties who want to leave the European Union, who want to close the borders and who deny the climate crisis. I made a plea for rapid formation because of the enormous challenges we face. But, Mr President, I must be honest: I have rarely kept a story that fell on the rocks like that. And the joke was that there were all kinds of colleagues, including some people behind the table, who said it was quite a nice story. But that was frankly well-meaning lip service, because what we have seen in the past year, certainly in six months of it, was that the six parties that belong to that constructive middle, that CDA and the VVD, have been working for six months to wipe the Labour Party and GroenLinks off the mat. It worked out in the end. And you have to take your loss and you shouldn't be too cynical about that, but I want to make two comments on that. The first one is this one. Does the Prime Minister not see, precisely with all the challenges we have, that it is a missed opportunity to come here to a much broader policy and thus also social support for the challenges we face? The second comment concerns a number of sentences that I read in the government statement, because there are fine words being spoken. More connecting and less dividing, it says. We need to work together and bridge differences. But what I have seen over the past six months or years is actually that there was less connection and more break-up, that there was less cooperation and that there was more opposition, that there was no question of bridging contradictions but that there was talk of increasing or knocking up contradictions. How am I supposed to see all this? The cabinet has a bit of a flair against it. We will not linger in some sort of grumpy or negativism, let alone cynicism. Not at all, you know us. What is good we support, what is not good we will criticize and provide alternatives. But there are still three questions to the Prime Minister in this area. The first question refers to the comment in the government statement on evaluation and critical self-reflection. Can he just reflect on his role, not in general terms, not referring to others, on the process that we have had over the past year? Two. Would the Prime Minister promise that the general principles of good governance will be central and leading in all the state-trading as we are going to see over the next three years? Three. What does the cabinet want to do, more than what is in the declaration of government or the coalition agreement, to regain the confidence of the citizens? This will be crucial to the transitions as the cabinet has a number of ambitions about them. That's where I'd like to go. To those ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Rosenmöller says he's actually sorry he's not in the coalition. But Mr. Rosenmöller is actually being served by the Prime Minister. There's no less than 60 billion going to climate and nitrogen. Don't you think that's enough? It is already disastrous for the people at home who are getting huge costs. Is that still not enough? Are you still dreaming of that Marxist state in the Netherlands? Would you like to descend on that? Mr. Rutte serves you at your beck and call, and it's still not enough. But that is typical of socialists: they never have enough. And I think that goes for Mr. Rosenmöller, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	You say a lot of things at once, but the question is what applies to us. Is your question whether we consider 60 billion sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	I come to that, but there is a risk that that 60 billion dollars will indeed be spent inefficiently. Are you satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	Of course, I'm not satisfied with that. It is being spent inefficiently anyway, because the climate is a created problem. The nitrogen is a created problem, so that 60 billion goes into the trash no matter how you fill it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	You represent a party that we say has a fundamental difference of opinion. One of the elements is that you deny the climate crisis, and the other two I mentioned. Of course, we are not getting together in this area. That does not mean that we could not meet in relation to the cabinet, and that is where I wanted to go. We appreciate some of the important ambitions set out in the coalition agreement in the areas of climate, nitrogen, housing policy and also the necessary labour market reform. I would like to make two comments. The second one is about money. The first is about implementation and feasibility. Mr. Chairman. It's crucial that we get our people involved in that transition. That is why it is essential that these general principles be applied in a manner that I have discussed. I would like to tell the cabinet to monitor the integrity of the board, because we cannot throw that climate transition over Rob Jetten's fence, no matter how hard he will work to achieve that. In another area, such as the question of Kingdom relations, on which this Chamber has stated that it should have a higher priority: no matter how hard Alexandra van Huffelen will work on it, we cannot throw it over her fence. This is and should be an integral cabinet policy. I'll ask the Cabinet to guard that. It is precisely in terms of feasibility that it is important to talk about clear objectives, concrete projects, effective instruments, and then, of course, sufficient resources, in these transitions, many of us outside this Chamber. We do not see that in this coalition agreement. That may not be necessary, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister for a note on the main policy areas such as the cabinet that has formulated, on implementation plans and on concrete check-out targets for the next three years. How's the CO reduction going, how's the halving of poverty going in four years, how's it going to run in a different ratio of solid and flex in the labour market? We as States-General, including the First Chamber, should be able to check that. Then there's the resources. It is indeed a lot of money. We will not oppose it, but it is difficult to judge it. The fundamental problem is that the teachings of transitions say that you are going to first price, secondly standardize and then invest. Here it seems that the lobby of let me say the old economy has been successful. Economists, but also the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, were critical of the use of these large amounts of money in the funds. It seems a bit like where the polluter normally pays, this coalition pays the polluter. Even if you look at the Central Planning Bureau and the picture they present to us at the bank transfer, there is hazing rather than greening. Of course, that cannot be the intention. So the conclusion for us in the use of these funds is that it is inefficient, that it is unfair and that it is untenable in this way. I ask the Prime Minister to convince us otherwise. Mr. Chairman. In those transitions, I said it was crucial that we bring our people, that it be an honest story. 'Cause there's gonna be a lot of uncertainty. But if we succeed, then of course we get a cleaner country in return. Then we get a country in return that will offer much more perspective for many more people. On a house, on a regular job. How cool is that, I'd say. How cool is that country going to be? Of course, that's asking for something. That requires something from the cabinet, which requires something from the Prime Minister. This calls for leadership with courage that also dares to intervene in existing relationships and existing structures. Because solving the climate crisis without really addressing the polluting companies is doomed to fail. Housing policy with building alone and not or insufficiently addressing speculators and investors will be doomed to failure. Reforming the labour market will be doomed to failure without genuinely tackling the fluctuating of the labour market and strengthening the position of workers. Here, there is an incredibly important link between this sustainable transition on the one hand and the possibilities, especially with all the cuts in the labour market at this point in time. We need to link these cases together. Because more definitely, jobs will disappear, but there will be new jobs again. So linking the sustainable transition to labour market reform is of the utmost importance. Mr. Chairman. The great ambition that we lack is, of course, the ambition to tackle the inequality of power in our country, because it is great. This lack of capacity is incredibly great, even in a European context. There seems to be a major vanishing act here. I have never seen anything in all four electoral programmes of the four coalition parties about increasing the tax on capital, but there is nothing in this coalition agreement. Four years ago, it was exactly the other way around. Then there was something like the abolition of the dividend tax; that was not in any election programme and that suddenly came into the coalition agreement. We are aware of the flexibility of the Prime Minister, but we do need a further explanation. Let's be honest. That is clearly unjust. If you burden hardworking people like that and you put that against profit on wealth, then we're really doing something wrong. That touches on a sense of justice. Look at the programs of Sander Schimmelpenninck, read the columns in the newspapers, listen to what Klaas Knot says at Buitenhof last week. When the President of De Nederlandsche Bank speaks of an 'interest-riding economy', it is of course an incredible disqualification towards public policy. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does he view this qualification? If the cabinet still has to work in this area as a result of the legal ruling on box 3, I would like to give two elements to the cabinet. The first is this one. When it comes to box 3: find the repair within the power load. The second is this one. If you have to get to work then find much more balance in the tax on labour versus the tax on capital and capital, both in box 1 on your own house and in box 2 on your own company as well as in box 3 on your own money or equity. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, there is income inequality. That is the issue that we have also seen on the other side, if I may say so, that the AOW is not linked to the increase in the minimum wage. Mr Mei Li Vos will also speak about this. I agree with her for the sake of short notice and then look at what is going on in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	I'll come back to the quote about retirement and Klaas Knot. Do you think of people who have their own homes, especially elderly people with little or no pension, that this is a form of retirement? That's a first question. The second is: do you think that the capital tax you mentioned is a good solution? We've just had box 3, where the Supreme Court has drawn a line through fictitious returns. Do you acknowledge that the capital tax is a superfigitious return? Because it's a tax on property regardless of whether you make returns, whether it's high, low or negative. So two questions. Would you like to answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	Then I get to choose, don't I, on two questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	Both.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	Oh, okay. That's always the risk of asking two questions, I learned. During the tax review in 2001... and this honour is due to Kees Vendrik................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That was 21 years ago. 21 years ago. Two. When it comes to own house, we must also discuss the taxation of property formation and its growth. We can't escape that. There are all kinds of modalities to be followed. I am not going to say that someone with their own house and an AOW with an extremely limited pension should be at the expense of that or otherwise, we can all discuss all these cases. My point goes much further. That is what we are doing on good grounds, and you should agree with me that there is an obvious injustice there against the way in which we tax capital and capital. If not me, but the President of De Nederlandsche Bank talks about an 'interest store economy', you can discuss that qualification as you like, but then we are doing something wrong. The government's main advisor on financial and economic issues says this. If you turn off your social antenna properly, you'll see that something has to change here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	In my view, the other question has not yet been answered, but it has been answered. Do you recognise that your own property is not an investment, but like a car or a luxury yacht is a consumer goods? A home is for living in. If you bought it a long time ago and it only increased in value because of all kinds of circumstances, isn't it weird that you have to pay taxes on it when you normally live in it until you die? You can't pay taxes with stones. You're gonna have to pay that property tax by leaving your house. That doesn't only apply to low-income AOWs. That applies to all AOWs, because they represent that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mr. Rosenmöller, a brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	You're very committed to the elderly, I understand that. But there are also non-parents with their own home. I am concerned that there is no escape from the fact that we should also involve the President of the Central Bank in the discussion on the taxation of assets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u17	Of course, I also have great concerns about the home of our grandchildren and children. I have seven and three kids. That's what we're worried about. I'm talking about everyone's own house. The only thing is that if you have lived in a house for a very long time that you have bought in one way or another much cheaper than today's youngsters, then you will have a very heavy change in the tax you will have to pay. A fictitious return of zero, whereas you are supposed to make a high return on that because you are simply taxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u18	Finally, Mr Rosenmöller.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u19	I'm not talking about a fictitious return, I'm talking about the real return. I acknowledge with Mr Van Rooijen that there are all kinds of sensitivities to taxing one's own house in one way or another. I only hope that you recognise that doing nothing is an obvious injustice to the burden of labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u20	I suggest you continue your argument. You have two minutes, by the way, including your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u21	I have one more point and then I'm gonna finish. My final point is youth care. I'll do that briefly. We know the history of decentralisation with the austerity. We are aware of the problems that have subsequently arisen in the implementation. We know how much money the municipalities have spent on this in recent years from 2015. We know the conflict with the cabinet and the former Secretary of State. We have seen that there is an arbitration clause from the Committee of Wise Men. We have seen that the municipalities are willing to embrace this, with extra money but also with the necessary reform. The Secretary of State in the previous cabinet, Paul Blokhuis, said: "That is a serious advice." On top of that, what the cabinet is doing now is to make structural savings on youth care, once again up to 500 million. I think that is one of the major omissions in this coalition agreement. I make an urgent appeal, and otherwise it will have to be by motion, in order to persuade the cabinet to refrain from doing so. Because vulnerable young people have the right to rapid and high-quality youth care when they need it. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. The agenda of the future is saying goodbye to the neoliberal project we have seen over the past decades, where the market had to do it, the government was the problem, the public sector was ineffective and politics was too dominant. That was pretty much the summary. What it brought us was actually that the climate crisis was ignored, the opportunity inequality was created and now a lot needs to be repaired. That's Rutte IV, which actually has to do repairs to Rutte I, II and III. I would add that the coalition agreement offers a number of opportunities in this area. So if the Prime Minister is still there, then I would like to say to him: take that opportunity, especially the leadership, to ensure that those issues we have talked about, that sustainable transition, in a just way with those general principles aimed at regaining people's trust, will happen. For the next three years, put your entire capital into it; then you can leave the Tower with a raised head. For let us be honest, Prime Ministers who leave the Tower and then see the light, we already have enough. I wish the Cabinet every success and we will support everything that comes in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Rosenmöller. Mrs Jorritsma has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. It feels a bit awkward to keep General Political Reviews in February, because that's what I keep calling them, because that was the deal we made in September. Anyway, it was worth the wait, let's just say, because, of course, we always look forward in such a debate to what is to come, and that goes better with a missionary cabinet than with a missionary cabinet in trade-K. I am therefore very pleased with the presence of at least a number of representatives of the coalition, of each party one, and I would like to congratulate you all on completing the formation and the establishment of his cabinet; let me say positively, Mr Rosenmöller. So I will not say anything more about the pace of formation, because there is a lot to be said about that. Moreover, I do not believe that this was solely due to these four parties. Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to say much about corona today either. This is a subject that is widely discussed in this Chamber. On behalf of my group, however, I would like to say that we are still very concerned about the consequences of corona, in many different areas, and at the moment in particular about the noises that are coming out over the long term that long covid people are still working on. Hopefully, we can come up with solutions that will not cause these people any problems. Mr. Chairman. A cabinet is appointed to make choices, choices for the future of this country, and of course how those choices are to be paid for. I'd like to start with that second one anyway. After all, you know my party as a party of financial solidity. I always like to serve the opposition by cutting their favourite subjects directly. We have our business in this country generally pretty well done. Of course things can be better, but I'm happy to live in such a well-organized country. I was reminded of that once again when the corona crisis broke out. For although the successive lockdowns were terrible for our state of mind, for education, for enterprising Netherlands, there are few countries in the world where such an extensive support operation was set up so quickly, and still. We can do that, not only because the entrepreneurial spirit is in our popularity, but also simply because we have it well done in the financial field in this country. The fact that we were able to build billions of packages is due to the fact that our public finances were in order and, I dare say, are. Although the Rutte I and II Cabinets received strong criticism with their economy, it was that attitude that reduced public debt and made us financially extremely resilient. Now there's another criticism, only it's the other way around. Understandably, because there are firm choices made by this cabinet. These are choices that the VVD Group strongly supports. The financial soundness that you know of us is not the same as covetousness. Keeping the hand on the cut is a necessity to make the right choices for the Netherlands at the right time. If we hadn't cut back in 2010, we wouldn't have been able to sustain the whole economy with support packages. Now we're faced with another choice. Like I said, we're generally pretty good here. It is up to us as politicians to ensure that it stays that way and that it gets a little better even here and there. But there are also threats. We have seen how a statement by the Council of State on nitrogen can lock everything in our country at once. Unfortunately, we have also seen how a flood can hit one of our beautiful southern provinces. I think we should be able to agree that these are things that we prefer not to go through anymore and that nitrogen emissions and climate change are problems that cry out for solutions. I really do not see that as Mrs Faber of the PVV. And then I haven't even mentioned the late maintenance of our armed forces, our infrastructure and our education. We as politicians are not on earth to name problems. People can do that much better at home or in the pub with a glass of beer. No, we get our salary from the same people to solve the problems. That's what we've been hired for. The cabinet chooses to tackle the major problems of this time by the horns. Large funds are available for this. That seems to me to be an extremely sensible decision. After all, we all want to pass on this world a little decently to our children. Being profitable is functional, so you are prepared for heavier times. It's true that a lot of money is going to be spent. It is also true that this will increase public debt. It is a good time to invest and these are the problems that require a solution from us. However, that does not relieve us of the obligation to remain financially sound. I also feel compelled to say a few words about this. Of course, we are not going to spend unbiased money and we are not going to let the public debt rise indefinitely, which the Central Planning Office recently warned about. Expenditure on tackling nitrogen emissions and the effects of climate change is not structural, as the CPB points out. Moreover, I do not blame the CPB, because its models go over a limited number of years. Honestly, I'm also okay with the CPB warning us this way. But these are, as far as we are concerned, 'once in a lifetime' expenditures for the major problems that are now coming to us. The chance that the Cabinets will then have to make the same expenses or take decisions on them again seems to me to be very small, unless every backyard becomes a Natura 2000 site and we want to put a nuclear power plant in every backyard. The expected increase in public debt will therefore be lower than estimated by the planning agency. Also, the decreasing care costs, less more, will not be taken into account and the increase will be reduced. Moreover, implementation will require a great deal of attention. After all, we have a shortage of professionals in the sectors where the most needs to be done. The energy transition does not go without sufficient mechanics, education does not improve if there are too few teachers and care does not progress if there are too few nurses. The police and the army need to train more people and in many sectors with a lot of people working relatively few hours, that number of hours has to increase. In our vocational education in particular, something really needs to change to make the studies that help solve our problems more attractive. In addition, industry needs very clear regulations aimed at implementation. Yesterday, the President of VNO-NCW, Mrs Thijssen, asked very clearly how that would happen. In the Lower House, my party proposed that the investment funds should be legally anchored and that all expenditure should first pass through the Chamber. For example, there will soon be proper cost-benefit analyses for all plans, and then we will be able to work together. That is good for dualism and a necessity for this Prime Minister, because, as you all know, this coalition has no majority in our house. All the more important that we tackle these major problems together from left to right, and that is what the VVD Group wants to focus on in the coming years. I hope that we can do this together, I say to colleagues through the chairman. One of the reasons why this can be done is because the Netherlands is still doing very well economically. I just noticed that there were new figures this morning showing that the economy has grown by no less than 4.5%. Unbelievable. That's what our business does. So our business is doing a hell of a job. This is to our grave regret not for the sectors that have been so horribly affected by the necessary measures around corona. At the moment, the event sector is still closed, and I really hope that a perspective will be offered for them tonight. Unfortunately, also the catering industry cannot get to work at full speed. We hope that these measures will be put to an end very quickly, and the VVD Group also hopes that the government will be able to look again at whether and how solutions can be found to the debt problems that have arisen from a large number of entrepreneurs. But the rest of the business is growing and flourishing, and that is not self-evident. The VVD Group is really disappointed that companies like Shell and Unilever have made the choice to go to the UK. We also assume that we will continue to do our stinking best to ensure that no more multinationals leave, not by threatening sanctions, but by continuing to steer on to a good locational environment. Chemelot and Brainport had never arisen without DSM and Philips, Foodvalley really owes its origin to Unilever. In the long term, we will undoubtedly notice the loss of these two large companies. I'm not saying that because I'm such a big company fan. Their role in society can be appreciated, but they have one thing in common: they are and remain a catalyst for our small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I would like to say something directly about SMEs. Big business and small business need each other. I am convinced that VDL in Born has more opportunities for new clients because a range of small suppliers have now established themselves in the area. So let us really do our best to do a lot for SMEs, but also to make sure that ASML, Boskalis and Philips stay ordinary and are also a little careful. Mr. Chairman. Of the cooperation between large and small enterprises, I can easily switch to cooperation in our home. I told you before: we will need each other in the years to come to achieve good policies. The coalition needs the opposition and vice versa. When I look at how we usually do it here, I am optimistic. Every time I look at a debate on the other side, I am glad how we manage to maintain standards of decency here. That fits the senate's role. There is no need for the Senate to be more political. The relations in this Chamber are as they are, and the government has to take that into account in the legislative processes. The majorities must really be found in the House of Representatives, because that is where the political primacy lies. I do not see a single bill coming through this Chamber if not in the Lower House more than the coalition has voted for it. The focus of the treatment here can then be placed in addition to the political focus on the legal and qualitative side, with particular attention to whether policy is also feasible. I told you, let's make sure it stays good and let's see how we can make some things better. The urge to play Tweede Kamertje is also here. From time to time I see this, perhaps most in the bizarre amount of letters we send to ministers today on policy issues. As a result, our Registry is extremely busy, and we say again: we need to improve our position. I think a few letters might help less, too. In this context, I could also discuss in detail the alleged decoupling of the AOW. As this purchasing power debate has been discussed very extensively in the debates in the House of Representatives, I will not dwell on that issue here. The same applies, moreover, to the capital efficiency levy, a long-standing problem which my party has often called attention to. It is now up to the cabinet to relate to the court ruling that lies there, to find support in the House of Representatives, and then we are on our way. The same also applies to youth care. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he thinks he can regain the trust of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u24	I hear Mrs Jorritsma making a speech here that the First Chamber should be demoted to a stamp factory and should not have any discussions. I would nevertheless like to draw her attention to the progress of the Temporary Law measures covid-19, the emergency law, which makes serious violations of fundamental rights. In addition, this First Chamber has allowed itself to be put out of play. You are talking about checking laws on feasibility and legal quality. Then it is a huge faux pass that could have happened. We've warned you very much about that. That is why, in view of the polarisation in society, we are now calling for that emergency law to be repealed and not put in the fridge in case we need it again later. That law's just not right. Pull it in now! That is what this First Chamber is going to be about in the near future. Then, with the lessons learned, if Corona were to get worse, we could make a better law that is both approved in advance by the Second and the First Chamber. How does Mrs Jorritsma view this, given the role she sees in the First Chamber, as she has just argued?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u25	Mr Otten is building his speech on the fact that we have supposedly been sidelined. That's not true. The cabinet had to fight a crisis and the VVD Group wholeheartedly supported it. In a crisis, you cannot use all the instruments you use in a normal process. We are now moving back to a normal situation. I am really not going to tell you today what the cabinet is going to decide on the laws that are still in place. I also don't know to what extent you already know all about covid what you should know to scale everything down. We'll hear that one of these days. We'll hear from the press conference tonight. I understand, at least, that it has been leaked that we are thinking in two steps again. I hope that we are indeed approaching the end of the crisis, and then we can return to normal legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u26	We are debating the fourth extension of the Emergency Act, which will then be extended until 1 March, in this House on 22 February. So that's mustard after dinner. Fundamental rights are far-reaching, limited for a long period of time. The Wob pieces that have emerged so far have shown that this has been done with a very cynical approach. There'll be a lot more Wob pieces, I understand, so we'll see more of them. Of course, it is not possible for this House to give a stamp afterwards and to approve such infringements as a kind of stamp factory afterwards. So, again, the appeal to other groups as well: let us now repeal that emergency law. We have always voted against it, including the extensions, because this is disproportionate and we really need to get rid of it now. Otherwise, we'll never get rid of it. I wanted to give that to Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u27	You will continue your speech, Mrs Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u28	I have the feeling that Mr Otten has already forgotten that there has been a crisis at all and that we seem to be coming to the end of that crisis. That's nice, but the ease with which he... I can understand it too, because if you don't have a group in the Lower House you have to say it all here. However, I should like to warn you that we should not take on this role. Moreover, I understand that an amendment has now been introduced in the House of Representatives in the legislative proposal, which, if necessary, will make the process completely different. And I can understand that, because that's what it's supposed to be like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u29	Mrs Jorritsma spoke two words, which remain with me, and then went on about it. It referred to the alleged decoupling. The coalition agreement states: "We increase the minimum wage (...) by 7.5% and maintain the link (...) (with the exception of the AOW) (...)." Does the VVD group agree with me that it simply states that the link does apply to all benefits, except for the AOW? Do you recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u30	What is at issue here is that the normal link remains. That's the link to prosperity. It will remain for the AOW as well. Only the minimum wage will be increased once with the corresponding assistance. I think that is a sensible choice, because at the same time we want to do something about the large amount of supplements that we know about in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr President, this is going to be a game of words...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u32	Mr. Van Rooijen, you need to press the button again. If you're gonna talk before I give you the floor, I'm gonna have to turn it off. Now you have to press the button again and then you can start. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's true: the regular clutch remains. But that's not what we're talking about here. The government agreement states that the decoupling of the minimum wage, the additional increase of 7.5%, does not apply to the AOW. So that is a real decoupling of 7.5%. It's not a one-time thing, it's not temporary, it's permanent, it's final. In three or four years, the minimum wage and all benefits have been increased by 7.5% and the AOW has gone from 70 to 65% as a percentage of net minimum wage for the single person and from 50 to 46% for the married person. Those are the facts. Would you like to acknowledge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u34	I believe that in four years' time all benefits will be further increased because inflation will increase. If inflation increases and it is a welfare link, something is already being done about it. So we think you should look at the purchasing power of people at all levels. That has been agreed in the Lower House. I believe that the cabinet, with particular attention to middle incomes and the lowest incomes, should see what it can do to increase benefits, given inflation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u35	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u36	Then let me ask the question differently. If the link was fixed in 1965 and the law laid down in 1980 that the AOW is 70% of the net minimum wage, then you just say here: we will keep the regular link, but if the minimum wage is increased extra, then we will just decouple and well, that is a matter of playing with purchasing power. This is a fundamental violation of a right that has existed for 40 years. You can't brush that away with "the AOW just goes up with the minimum wage." But it doesn't just go up when the minimum wage goes up unusually.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u37	I would like to say to Mr Van Rooijen: there is an unusual reason to increase the minimum wage once more; there is a good reason for that and there is no reason for the AOW. So the AOW just needs to stay connected to prosperity. We have a welfare-proof AOW, basis for many pensions. Above all, we must continue to do so. And we have concerns about the purchasing power of certain groups in society. That concern is well established in the Lower House and the cabinet has the task of trying to come up with solutions for this. That will be difficult enough, because unfortunately inflation seems to be taking a little longer than we wanted. But it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u38	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr Rosenmöller on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'll try to do it right in one go. Ms Jorritsma spoke about youth care and asked the cabinet to restore this relationship with the municipalities. May I ask her... The congregations have turned to us about this youth care, in a very hard letter. You know township like no other. What did you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u42	I was sorry. I was also sorry that the municipalities ran away from the table. Because I really think that there is a responsibility here, both with the municipalities and with the government. To my great regret, the municipalities too have not taken everything out of the closet to do what they themselves chose in 2015. I was there when that happened and we had a completely different picture of the future than what has become reality now. I will not entirely attribute this to the municipalities, but it is also not the case that money solves the problem. It is really on the table here that they need to get that recovery plan in place, also on the basis of the ruling of the Arbitration Committee. One has to do a lot of work, and if one really does it well, then I am convinced that there will be no more talk of less money for it at all. 'Cause that's gonna take less money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u43	But how should the cabinet regain that trust of the municipalities at the moment when, on top of everything you say, you forget one element in this coalition agreement 100 million in '24, rising to 500 million extra cuts in youth care? The question is whether it is up to you to put that aside in order to gain confidence in a reformed youth care system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u44	I would very much like to know from the cabinet how they see it. And two, as we move forward, we have the expensive assignment to then indicate how we would like to pay for it. I don't have a picture of that right now either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u45	But that means, finally, that if the cabinet says 'the trust of the municipalities is worth me that structural 500 million, and we are putting that aside now', then the support of the VVD group will get here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u46	We are not proposing to change that for the time being, because I really believe that the discussion should take place first. Yeah, sorry, I just think municipalities should come to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u47	Coming back to the AOW. Mrs Jorritsma gets over it easily when she says we have to do something for the workers. That is, of course, beautiful and praiseworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u48	Not only that, but also for the people in the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u49	Yeah, but they're being decoupled. I don't think you could have had the floor. I think I had the floor, but that aside. Mrs Jorritsma says she wanted to do something for the workers, apparently also for the AOW, but we are dealing with this decoupling, so I think that's not so bad. Does Mrs Jorritsma realise that freezing the AOW also affects workers? It has an impact on pension payments, because that has to do with the franchise. So Mrs Jorritsma is wrong about this too. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u50	You're saying a lot now. I said that it was agreed in the House of Representatives that the cabinet would look at how people with the smallest incomes and with middle incomes can be helped, because inflation is so high. I'm just gonna say it in simple language. This will be done in the spring paper, because then we will know exactly how long that inflation will last. I think that's very good. Moreover, the AOW remains linked to the development of prosperity. It's not like the AOW is frozen. It's not frozen. A choice has been made to raise the minimum wage once. There was another reason for this, and that is a labour market reason. We can agree to that. You're trying to get people from welfare to work, so it makes sense that it goes with that. By the way, not everyone in this country has assistance and a minimum wage, while everyone who becomes 67 years old in this country gets AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u51	This is very special, isn't it? Mrs Jorritsma says she wants to do something for the workers. That's why people in welfare have to come along. That does not, of course, increase the incentive to work, but that aside. But I have not yet received an answer to my question about the franchise of the pension scheme. The AOW is 7.5% below the minimum wage. This has an impact on pension contributions. It thus also affects the net income of the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u52	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u53	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u54	No, if we...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u55	Sorry, I still have the floor. You haven't had the floor yet. I understand, of course, that you are taking the heat of the debate. That happens to me sometimes. I understand. I'm not mad about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u56	I call Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u57	You can't imagine that, Mr. Rutte, or Prime Minister. It's okay. It's okay. I mean, it's okay. It certainly affects pension payments. Mrs. Jorritsma shouldn't be so silly that it isn't, because it just is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u58	Too bad I'm being accused of stupidity. If the AOW continues to grow as it is now growing, namely with prosperity, the franchise will remain the same. It doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u59	The conversation meanders when it comes to my interruption back to juvenile services. Did I hear Mrs Jorritsma of the VVD say: if youth care is now a bit constructive and working a bit harder, then they don't need those millions? It's all up to them, they've got to do their best in the youth care sector: I distilled that out of her words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u60	That is a very free translation of what I have said. I certainly didn't mean that. I think youth care is working really hard. I just think that it is far from as organized as we had in mind at the decentralisation in 2015. I know that there is no standardisation at all yet. Standardisation is needed if you want to compare municipalities in any way in how they do it. You also need it if you want to provide care as a health care provider. Then it's very clumsy when every city asks for something else. There must be major improvements in this respect. I am also convinced that the system with directors is far from in order. We always thought families would get one director for the complex approach. That's not in order yet. So I am not talking about youth care itself, I am talking about the whole thing. Municipalities, youth care and the Empire must work together to find solutions to this problem. I think it's possible. I also think we can do it faster. And I am very sorry that in this country too many children end up in child care. That's what it's about. On the one hand, according to research, we have the happiest children in the world, and on the other hand, we have most children in child care. That's weird. That's not right. Something really needs to be done about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u61	Let us be clear: of course there is more streamlining and efficiency... Decentralisation is of course always accompanied by an organisational mountain of work, where there is certainly improvement. We'll find each other there. But I do not know if Mrs Jorritsma has forgotten that we also had the corona crisis in between, which, of course, made the work very difficult organizationally, but also put a huge extra pressure. I see that in Amsterdam too. I'm in the city council, and I see what's going on in juvenile services. I dare to extrapolate that a little bit to similar cities in our country. Is this really the time to spend less on that? I agree with Mrs Jorritsma: of course there is still a world to gain in efficiency. Absolutely. But that can't be a reason to go along with it on that very vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u62	It's not about less, because it's just going to the community fund. Municipalities eventually make their own choices. And two, for the time being, there's just more money going to juvenile care. So it is not the case that we are cutting back at the moment. That's not true. Of course you also try to do it in such a way that the best work is done to make up for the child care for the children who really need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u63	Finally, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u64	Of course, this is a bit of a rhetorical trick. I believe that the Prime Minister also described it as: there is less spending than was originally planned. This does not alter the fact that, of course, a total of 500 million less is going in this direction than budgeted. I don't really have any more questions about this. I note that this is an organisational problem for the VVD of streamlining and that there are fine words for vulnerable groups, but I do not see any butter in the fish. Well, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u65	Of course, that conclusion is a very strange one. Then, apparently, Mrs Nanninga continues to accept that so many children fall wrongly into child care. To be honest, I find that my greatest concern. My greatest concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u66	A little kindness towards Mrs. Jorritsma. I also see red...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u67	Well, this is orange.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u68	I think of it as red. That has to do with the colors...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u69	When I stand next to you, it's orange.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u70	I'm a little brighter red than you always are. At least I see an outstretched hand. I have one more question about box 3, the capital tax. You were pretty quick to get over that, too. You didn't want to talk about that, but I'd like to talk about that. There's a verdict from the Supreme Court. So we need to do something very quickly about the taxation of capital. I have two questions about that. Can the VVD through Mrs Jorritsma guarantee us that this will not be achieved by hardworking Dutch people in box 1? Two. What does Mrs Jorritsma think of the plan put forward by colleagues from GroenLinks and the PvdA, which is a fairly simple and feasible plan, to raise power better than has been done so far?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u71	I must confess that I have not really studied the proposal of GroenLinks and the Labour Party. But as far as I've seen, it's not about the growth of power anymore, it's about the ability itself. I would like to think very carefully about whether that is a sensible choice. Moreover, the biggest reduction in the capital charge of the last period is the abolition of the landlord's levy. Perhaps we should have called this landlord levy a capital charge on the assets of the corporations. Anyway, she's being abolished. That is one of the reasons why capital taxes have also been reduced at the moment. I myself think it's unwise to go to the ability itself, if only because there are a lot of people... In box 3 you just have to look at it. There are almost 4 million people who fall into box 3, who have had to pay the yield tax, and we raise 4 billion. Then you know what the average contribution is. I know a lot of people who haven't been able to build a pension, who had a shop, a bakery, a butcher shop, or a company, and who have sold that company for not millions at all, but a few tons. It's on the couch now. That's all they have in addition to their pension. With pensioners like us, like myself, it doesn't matter if I turn 70 or 107. I'll hold my pension until I'm 107 if I'm lucky. And I'm doing my best to achieve that. My own father was an entrepreneur. He was able to sell his business at a much too late time. At that time, only his house was his retirement. That was really up when my mom turned 90 and unfortunately he died too young. A lot of people like that are in the system, too. I've also seen all kinds of people on television about that. But there's got to be another replacement for what we agreed on. In fact, I believe that the rate of return was introduced in a cabinet to which the VVD was a member. There's nothing against...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u72	Would you like to make the answer somewhat brief, Mrs Jorritsma? Otherwise, it's gonna be a third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u73	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u74	I can reassure you, all the savers and all the people with a middle income and savings. The PvdA and GroenLinks do not want to get the savings of those hardworking people that you are covered by and which include a lot of people I know. It is a simple executable tax for the higher rates. It's not about the 4 million people who have built up clean savings. That's not the point. It's about the people who really have a lot of power. We want a simple tax on that. You are going to be in favour of this choice, because a capital efficiency levy is proving to be very difficult. That's hard to implement, especially with our tax authorities. If the VVD stands for the choice of getting it from hardworking people, or through a simple power load among the most wealthy, what do you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u75	A brief answer, Mrs. Jorritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u76	I think you're making the question far too simple. Unfortunately, the capital tax isn't that simple. You have all kinds of modalities to do it. You might even think of a modality outside of the IRS. There are countries that do it in the case of transactions. You have all kinds of ways to burden the growth of power. That's what I'd like to point my arrows at. I hope that the new Secretary of State will be able to develop creative ideas for this. Honestly, I think what you came up with is a little too simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u77	We don't escape making something simple for a totally out-of-the-box Tax Office. I fear that the VVD will be faced with this choice, because they cannot handle a Tobin tax or other complicated things. The PvdA and GroenLinks have done a hand-out to introduce a simple load that does not affect the middle class, but only to people with the highest abilities. I fear that you will be faced with this choice, no matter how simple it may be. Sometimes things are simpler than you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u78	We'll see. We'll see what the cabinet comes up with. It is now with the Cabinet to come forward with proposals. They are also forced to make these proposals. Finally, I would like to dwell on the new cabinet and specifically on the number of directors. In the previous period, unfortunately, a number of rulers, including my party, succumbed to the pressure of work, leaving early. In order to reduce the workload, the new cabinet has chosen the solution to appoint a large number of directors with defined portfolios. I think that is a good step in itself. I look forward very much to working with all those rulers, because that has to be done. In that sense, I agree with what Mr Rosenmöller said, that it must all be brought together. In the end, there must be an integral government policy. The workload is not a popular theme for directors themselves to talk about. That's why I'm gonna do it. My group believes that this issue deserves constant attention. I myself was once Minister of Transport and Water State. Deep down in the last century, I'd almost say. That was even without Secretary of State: I did it on my own. That is perhaps why I have let go of my thoughts on this subject. On behalf of my group, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to follow very closely whether more rulers actually reduce the workload. In other words, is the solution chosen the solution to a real problem? It could also be that ministers and secretaries of state should cooperate, transfer, meet and negotiate much more, which does not necessarily result in less stress. We need to follow that closely. The question is also whether it is easier or more difficult for Parliament to address it. Perhaps we can learn something from that by following it carefully now and evaluating it to determine how it will be done in future Cabinets. For the time being, the VVD Group wishes all directors a great deal of health and good luck in preparing for the rapid implementation of all plans. Because there must be implementation plans. The coalition agreement is a first step in this respect. They are enshrined in the coalition agreement and we look forward to the corresponding legislation, if necessary, with curiosity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mrs Jorritsma talks about the coalition agreement. That coalition agreement provides for nearly 80 billion in all kinds of funds: climate funds, nitrogen funds, growth funds, something we have always fought very hard against. The VVD also wants to get rid of the gas, while half the world is switching to gas. I don't know what's going on with the VVD, why they turned all the way to the left. Probably rule is more important than upholding principles. Why do you want to implement this idiotic, priceless transition so quickly and so unthinkingly, I ask Mrs Jorritsma. Why does the VVD want to get rid of the gas? The Dutchman doesn't want that. The rest of the world doesn't work either. Why do you want to fill the country with windmills? We do not want that, there is no basis for it. I would ask Mrs Jorritsma if your desire to govern and participate is so great that you have thrown all the principles to the left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mr. Chairman. These are the easy lyrics again. It is all a bit more complicated than Mr Otten proposes. It is not that we say that everyone has to get off the gas very quickly. You won't be able to. As it happens, I have some knowledge of how many gas mechanics we have in this country. We won't even make it, so we really need time for that. I assume that Mr Jetten and his portfolio will also undoubtedly think about how we will eventually grow towards zero emissions by 2050. By the way, the money is not on a shelf somewhere and it is not distributed, hoppetee, but distributed. No, that money will not be collected until the plans that have to be made have been approved and approved in Parliament. Only then can the money be brought in. It'll be smeared in 10 years. It's a big amount, but it's not about crazy amounts of money a year. That is not possible at all, because my estimate is that it will be quite a while before the train of investment really gets going. Some things you have to make really long-term agreements with big investments. May I mention one? Suppose a nuclear power plant is decided upon; if you want to contribute to that, you will not have to do so in the first year, but you will have to ensure that you can make such a binding agreement over a longer period of time. That's what funds are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u81	I can't get an answer to the question why the VVD wants to get rid of the gas. The energy bill is exploding right now. We all get new offers; I happen to get them this week. This amounts to 150% more than the previous month, from €300 to €600-and-a-what. Well, I can afford that, but there are a lot of people who can't afford that whole thing. The transition and the huge energy tax, especially on gas........................................................................................................................................................................................... So how are you gonna do that? Because you can all have nice plans by 2050, but people just can't pay the energy bill in three months' time and get into trouble. What will the VVD do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u82	Mr Otten has made another point. I believe that the cabinet has just been commissioned because part of the reason why inflation is so high is because of energy costs. That is why the cabinet has also been instructed to see how to ensure that people with the lowest incomes and middle incomes can be kept as safe as possible. So that means you have to look at everything. How they're gonna do that, I'd like to hear it from the Cabinet, but not right now. That comes with the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u83	I think a lot of people are already in serious trouble in the spring. So, through Mrs Jorritsma, I would like to urge the VVD to be a little more urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u84	The best solution to the cost of gas is if tensions in Ukraine disappear. Unfortunately, we do not have that in hand, so unfortunately we will have to live with it for the time being. I hope that it will come to a good solution there that is diplomatic and that it will not come to war, because then it will all get much worse, and then we will talk about very other things again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u85	I have, of course, listened to Mrs Jorritsma's speech and I have a question about it. In fact, it has something to do with the subject that has just been raised, namely the large funds. Mrs Jorritsma has also argued that her party is of financial soundness. How are we going to keep this in hand when the percentages that have come into the law, including by the VVD, turn out to be unfeasible around climate? Don't we create new Urgendas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u86	No, I don't think so. I don't think we're creating new Urgendas. We have to abide by the agreements we have made. We are pretending that there is no norming, but the greatest norming in the field of climate comes from Brussels. That's right. ETS is a very important tool to make fossil fuel more expensive for companies and also for private individuals, which is also indirectly the case with us. That means we really need to get to work. I'm not so afraid that we won't come out with the good plans we're making right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u87	I think it's very interesting that we've all made nice plans, but at the time we put a certain percentage in the law, and we've done that in part thanks to the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u88	Mr. Chairman, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u89	I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u90	But if those percentages are not met, our country will be crippled again, lying still. Then, so to speak, any average lawyer can say that the law is no longer being passed, so certain issues can no longer progress. How will the VVD contribute to solving that huge problem? I didn't think of it. We recently brought it to the Supreme Court and he agreed. We're at a huge risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u91	As far as I know, there is no rule in Dutch law in which we commit ourselves to percentages on which one can go to court. That is part of European legislation. The Urgenda ruling had nothing to do with Dutch legislation, but with European legislation. We will be held to that, so we must do our utmost to ensure that this is done. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u92	May I remind Mrs Jorritsma of the Climate Law in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u94	An initiative from the Lower House where the VVD was co-initiator of. That is just a Dutch law, isn't it? Or have we suddenly become Europe? In other words, we have put that into the law, and that includes the 2030 rate, which we now run the risk of not achieving. I'm asking the Prime Minister to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u95	As far as I know, our law only sets a target and does not include a figure on the basis of which one can go to court. This has been explicitly discussed and confirmed in this House in the course of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, a small announcement of a household nature. During this debate I will be replaced by my colleague Lennart van der Linden. This is because my presence tonight is also desired in the capital. It's election time, and there's an election debate. Mr. Chairman. The Kaag I cabinet is what with a lot of art and flying work is the result of a ballot which in no way resulted in a majority for the idea that we should move to the Netherlands, but that is exactly what is happening now. It is clear what my group thinks of most of the plans. Billions of people are thrown at them as if they were monopoly money, the permanent asylum crisis is simply turned into a policy, the Dutch landscape will be mutilated unrecognizably by countless wind turbines, the housing shortage is already an unfeasible map. All these nice plans are paid for by a citizen who sighs under enormous energy costs and ditto inflation. To solve the personal drama between the coalition members, money is being thrown. The burden of this will be borne by the public. The budgetary discipline we have seen in previous Rutte Cabinets has been thrown overboard. The public debt is about to rise enormously. It is above the 60% standard, while no less than EUR 60 billion is budgeted for the nitrogen and climate problem. The AOW is decoupled, the loan system students receive hardly any compensation and further cuts in youth care are being made, even though it is already very tight. Mr. Chairman. My group opposes the decoupling of the AOW and the minimum wage. Mr Eerdmans already poured very clear wine across the street, as it is now symbolically called. The purchasing power of our older people is going to suffer irresponsibly. Apart from this totally unjustified decoupling, the purchasing power of older people will be further weakened by the above-mentioned inflation and the failure to index pensions for years. This decoupling is also unfair to the younger generations, as Mrs Vos pointed out just now in an interruption. There will be great uncertainty for them about their old age provision if this continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u98	Ms Nanninga indicated that her party leader, Mr Eerdmans, gave clear wine in the House of Representatives. But how ready is that wine? He has also indicated that if great commitments are made, the door at JA21 will crack. So how hard is that? For example, he mentions the strict Danish migration model. But do you really believe that the Prime Minister who sits here and who signed the Marrakesh Treaty a while ago can do something about it? Do you really believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u99	No, I don't believe that at all. That is exactly why Mr Eerdmans said that. Let me explain that to you. What did Mr Eerdmans mean to say? I know what quotes you are referring to; he said that in a WNL television programme, I believe. He made a kind of statement: we are really against decoupling the AOW and there is really nothing this cabinet can come up with which we as JA21 say: well, okay, that's negotiable. That is exactly what Mrs Faber said: the totally unlikely idea that a decent asylum policy should be introduced here once. So it was a kind of hyperbola: well, if they come with that... But that was a bit from the point of view: that's not going to happen. So it was a somewhat confusing statement, I admit, but I guarantee everyone who watches and listens here and Mrs Faber that that decoupling of the AOW is not negotiable for our party, not even for proverbial towering peace offerings.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u100	I'm happy with this hyperbola, so let me quote you. I therefore conclude that JA21 will vote against the decoupling of the AOW. I ask Mrs Nanninga again. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u101	You have quite correctly understood that. Black-and-white. I'd like to say it three more times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u102	No, no, no. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u103	You're looking at the clock. I will continue my speech. Right. I would like to say to the Prime Minister that, as far as we are concerned, this idea does not come through this house. The coalition cannot go left when I listen to Mr Rosenmöller and Mrs Vos and this is not about the right. This isn't happening. The urgent question to the cabinet delegation is here today: can you, in your first reply, undertake to refrain from this decoupling plan from the AOW? Another place where the money for far-D66's is removed from the Netherlands is, as I said, youth care. Not only the elderly are being tackled; the younger generation is just as much screwed. In the long term, half a billion savings should be made on youth care or less spent, as the spider of the cabinet says. This is something my group cannot discuss. It is not very good with youth care in the Netherlands. I quote the President of Youth Care Netherlands: 'Care for the most vulnerable young people and families is currently under great pressure and the providers of this crucial youth assistance cannot cope with further cuts'. My group simply does not understand why this austerity has been proposed. I just don't understand. On what basis did this cabinet look like a good move to cut back on youth care? Which indicators or data gave rise to this? Could you take us into that? Does this cabinet not agree with my group's view that it is a problem in the field of youth care? And what signal does this cabinet intend to send by investing billions in something like nitrogen? Then we're gonna protect grass chips, but our kids aren't! We're cutting back on the most vulnerable young people. Is this what the title "Seeing each other" should stand for? Mr. Chairman. Before the corona crisis, the municipalities had already been questioned by the responsibility for youth care. I see that in the city where I sit on the city council, Amsterdam. We've been hearing cries from the sector for years; I've been quoting them for a while. Add to that the deep traces that the lockdowns and the corona crisis leave to the Dutch families and children. Then my group finds a further cut in youth care or, as it is sold by this cabinet, less extra spending than intended really irresponsible and freezing. Both in terms of signal to families and young people and in concrete terms, this choice, I repeat, is irresponsible and freezing. Fortunately, there are also a number of positive points to be noted at the same time. For example, the Ministry of Defence receives a structural increase, teacher salaries increase and the minimum wage is gradually increased. Oddly enough, this remains linked to the welfare and Wajong benefits, as opposed to the AOW. In addition, we are finally investing in nuclear power plants. Moreover, it is somewhat disappointing to my group that no concrete steps are being taken to tackle our unnecessarily complex tax and surcharge systems, which we have been arguing for some time in this House. We are further on with the childcare allowance scheme, in which parents only pay their own contribution of 5%. Let's finish with this. Although it is nice that the parties to the left and right of the coalition find each other in this house on the social domain or aspects of it, it is actually embarrassing that that protection of the broad middle and the social domain of the flanks should come and not of the coalition we are now faced with a choice. And there, in the words of Minister Kaag, separate our ways, the ways of JA21 and the left flank. Because we cannot and cannot allow the permanent influx of asylum and mass immigration and the welfare state to survive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u104	I have here the Eerdmans motion which was adopted in the same debate in the Lower House and which very much refers to the majority in the Upper House. Mr Eerdmans likes to shield with the seats he would have in the First Chamber, especially because he was not on the list himself, I think, but that is a side path. This motion calls for ideas from the First Chamber of JA21. Now my question to Mrs Nanninga is: do you consider three good ideas that you would have, and which you did not steal from us or from other parties that you want to realize with your seats here in the First Chamber? 'Cause I haven't really heard that one so far. I hear a lot of copying from other parties, but what are the good ideas that this motion Honordmans is referring to? That's what I like to hear. Name three!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u105	But a little brief. Mrs. Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u106	I don't quite understand the question. If you want to know the ideas of our party, you can look into our party program. About the qualification that something was stolen, I can make a comment back, but I'm not going to do that. I don't understand the question exactly. What do you want from me? You want three ideas from our First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u107	Your motion notes that Rutte IV is based on a narrow majority in the Lower House and that that majority is even lacking in the Upper Chamber and that the support for this cabinet in society is currently extremely low, and calls on the government to reach out to ideas from the opposition, substantive ideas. Which ideas are you referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u108	I happen to mention just three for which we have a different relationship here in the First Chamber, in terms of majority/minority, than in the Second Chamber: the youth care system, the loan system, I shall come back to the students who are victims of the loan system malaise and the linking of the AOW. Those are things that can count on a different majority ratio because we can form other majorities here. That's what we're talking about here, so I still don't understand the question very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u109	I note that I do not hear any new ideas from Mrs Nanninga. Well, that's what we're gonna find out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u110	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u111	I'm confused by this incompetence to read a motion, but fortunately that's not my problem. Where was I? Yes. So we cannot allow both permanent asylum and mass immigration to continue as well as the welfare state. It's the cabbage and the goat. It's choosing or sharing. This coalition does not make an explicit choice. No choice! And not making a choice is ultimately also a choice. What is the Prime Minister's view of the relationship between these levels of immigration of people who claim a high share of the above-average social safety net and the maintenance of the same safety net? Or do we pass on that choice, with all the dramatic consequences for future generations? Mr. Chairman. The cliché wants you to say at the end of such a story that there's enough work to be done. It turns out so. I wish the Cabinet strength and wisdom to do that work. I hope and expect that our group will be able to steer the new cabinet a little in the right direction. With all due respect for D66, who of course played the game sublimely, for which compliments, that direction is a bit away from the D66 corner and a little bit more in the direction that the voting ratio and the votes in this country can carry out for today and for the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Mr Van Kesteren has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. There is much talk of possible political instability in our country. It is an obvious idea when you look at the large number of political parties in the parliament, at the recent, long-standing cabinet formation and at the fact that the cabinet does not have a majority in the First Chamber. There's another picture, too. It has been underexposed that the previous cabinet still had a majority in the Lower House after the elections. That's pretty special. Furthermore, I have an active memory of four Prime Ministers, Lubbers, Kok, Balkenende and Rutte, in the forty years I have spent in the Hague. Four prime ministers in 40 years, as if that's not stable. As Multatuli said, everything is relative and even this. The CDA Group sincerely congratulates the Prime Minister on the prolongation of his office and on his new cabinet which is to lead our country in the coming years. The cabinet starts in a difficult phase. First of all, there is the international situation. The crisis around Ukraine is reminiscent of the time of the Cold War: unpleasant images of threatening troops on the border of an independent country. Grey tanks in the snow and bare trees: a ominous sight. Our country is working in the context of NATO to deal with this threat. You're right. This kind of aggression and intimidation must be combated. In my group's view, the changing international situation will have to strengthen Europe's role in foreign policy and its resources. World relations are changing in such a way that Europe needs to be able to stand on its own feet. I'd like a reflection of the cabinet on this line of thinking. What also contributes to the somewhat depressing atmosphere is that the public's confidence in the new cabinet is low. This is not surprising, after the cabinet formation already mentioned, but also because of the covid crisis which has been going on for two years. This pandemic has put a heavy strain on the population's ability to collect. The fact that we were confronted with an unknown enemy, whose behavior was unpredictable and with whom no one had experience in its fight, sometimes makes public policy very diverse. That gave the impression that there was no steady hand control. That couldn't have been much different, but in the long run, something like that leads to a sinking trust. At the heart of my contribution today is the necessary restoration of confidence, in particular through the emphasis on good policy implementation. Actions are what people see and that makes lasting impression. If words don't fit in with this, trust will soon disappear. The violation of trust is something that we, each from its own role, must restore together for the sake of a functioning democracy. Values are important here. We can think in structures and protocols or otherwise, but ultimately it is about the values on which we base ourselves and how we deal with them. A lot has already been said about the premium affair. That's right. What has struck me most is the recent unveiling that the assessment of fraud risks took into account personal characteristics and appearance. Isn't there anyone in an organization like the Tax Administration who's gonna ring a bell when applying these kinds of criteria: preventing personal characteristics and appearance? Has the collective memory of the past, and everything that has happened in this area, really disappeared into the background? Mr. Chairman. I hope that the new cabinet in human resources policy, to put it mildly, will pay attention to the teaching of basic values and the historical awareness of these values. This is mainly about the implementation of what we mean by a rule of law. The democratic rule of law is, in our view, a community of values in which justice must prevail and where freedom and tolerance are constantly at stake and often under pressure. The rule of law is never a quiet possession. On paper, the Netherlands may have a satisfactory rule of law, but practice is less cheerful. Has the rule of law in recent times provided adequate protection for people in need and vulnerable people? Does the rule of law protect you when your house is broken into, when you're on the run, or when your house is rusted by gas? It is not normal for almost one million declarations a year to be dropped about 900,000. In other respects too, the rule of law does not function properly. Our policy on drugs, coupled with our position as a trading nation, with also a large financial sector, makes the Netherlands the ideal place to develop and finance criminal activities and to launder their benefits. On several issues, the CDA Group has called for a delta plan against this serious violation of the rule of law. My group is pleased that the coalition agreement pays great attention to undermining and that the cabinet decides to implement the Pact for the Rule of Law. In this we read the recognition that reducing the undermining crime requires an effort that will also have to be sustained under the next Cabinets. Does my group see this correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u114	The words of Mr Van Kesteren have been taken from my heart, especially when it comes to drugs. In the previous cabinet an attempt has been made to legalize drugs, to have drugs legalized on the market. Does Mr Van Kesteren agree with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats that we should call on the cabinet to stop this experiment immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u115	That experiment has always been respected by my group as the outcome of political consultation. We have taken this on our own, not a great affinity. I think it is a rather marginal phenomenon in the overall discussion on drug crime. I don't think it's gonna be a success in advance, too, considering the experiences in, I thought, California. That is where this is also happening, and it appears that the criminal market is ultimately blocking the official market. I am therefore not optimistic about the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u116	I understand Mr Van Kesteren's words, but I think a lot of people have problems with drugs in their families or around them. They know how dangerous it is to make it legal. I also heard Mr Van Kesteren say that it was the outcome, which they respected, of a political compromise, just to put it in my words. That was in the previous cabinet. We have a new cabinet now. Is this not the time to denounce this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u117	I continue with what I have just said, that this issue will come back in practice. Then my party will go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u118	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman. Recently, the CDA in this Chamber called on the cabinet to act against European countries that were not so close to the rule of law. But let's also look in the mirror. There is still much to be said about this. We will do so on the occasion of the debate on the state of the rule of law, later in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is pleased...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u120	I am very interested to hear the story of Mr Van Kesteren. He will understand that, because there is a common thread in it that was also the common thread of ours, confidence in the rule of law. I have translated that into general principles of good governance. You have mentioned the same examples as we have mentioned. Do you also think it is a task of us as Chambers? We may also differ on parts of the matter; that is irrelevant at the moment. We are collectively at the point of restoring that confidence and getting those principles of the rule of law in the ears of all those hard-working officials who are working day in and day out to provide advice to the rulers. I would like to discuss this issue in a fundamental way here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u121	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u122	That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u123	As far as I'm concerned, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u124	Of course, that still requires a majority in the Chamber. But continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u125	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is pleased that there is finally a cabinet. There are many problems that require a solution: the climate, the housing market, the labour market, energy supply and more. All major issues to be identified and addressed. Fine! However, my group cannot escape the impression that a financial solution is being offered in particular, but that the actual implementation is still lacking. Providing a financial solution is not as difficult as the money is cheap and the Netherlands can actually borrow as much as it wants. The latter, of course, raises the question of where the limits lie. The CPB has indicated that it sees risks to an unacceptable level of public debt in the future. However, I would like to add that, in the wake of Mrs Jorritsma, it also assumes that future Cabinets would continue to spend money in the same way as the Cabinet now imagines. That does not seem to me to be a real assumption. As always, the CDA Group attaches great importance to a prudent financial policy as is achieved in this cabinet period in terms of deficit and debt. They remain within the standards. However, we would like to see a reflection of the cabinet on the long-term finances. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, the prospect of a lot of money is not the hardest. It is a question of practical implementation. Realism is needed. The international relations are hardening. Europe is increasingly dealing with regimes that conduct power politics, based solely on self-interest. That makes it necessary for Europe, and within the Netherlands, to realize that it minimises its dependence on others. One example of this is climate policy and the associated energy transition. The dependence of Russian gas is now pressing us with the nose on the facts. My group would like to hear from the cabinet as concretely as possible how the climate targets can be achieved without compromising the security of supply of energy. My group thinks it is sensible that nuclear energy should play a role in this again. It is not only the security of gas supply that is at risk, but also that of electricity. TenneT, the manager of the Dutch high-voltage grid, faces major problems and, like the Planning Office for the Environment, notes that there is a gap between the ambitions of climate policy on the one hand and concrete measures on the other. That is serious, because it raises expectations that are not being fulfilled. This leads to a loss of trust and sometimes far-reaching court rulings which force the government to take concrete measures. See the Urgenda arrests. The CDA Group calls on the cabinet to focus on realistic implementation of the policy. The cabinet is right to say that it wants to give a greater role to Europe and that it itself wants to play a greater role in it. But what is the real value of these beautiful words? A recent report by the IOB, the independent foreign affairs evaluation service, states that the European ambitions of the cabinet are not feasible. There are too few people available and there is a lack of a strategy that makes clear what the Dutch interests are. That too is serious. A clear definition of Dutch interests must be the basis of the policy. Perhaps the lack of such a policy has broken us down in the past in the formulation of European nitrogen policy. In order to become credible to the population, choices will have to be made and policies will have to be implemented strictly. That is the essence for the CDA Group for the years to come. Anyone who promises a great deal and does not keep the promises must not be surprised that confidence in politics is falling. If we want to build 100,000 homes a year, we must free ourselves from the existing obstacles. The bureaucracy, in the form of endless procedures, will have to disappear. Now it often takes ten to fifteen years for a construction plan to be realised. There will need to be a mechanism for resolving all kinds of conflicts of interest and we will not have to take any risks when implementing the Environment Act. Otherwise, the problems will get even bigger. If we don't get the basic conditions in order, we'll make an empty promise with 100,000 houses a year. And then we have to get out of the nitrogen swamp. A further factor is the labour market, or rather the shortage of labour. This will be a breaking point for a lot of planned government policies. Not only for housing, but also for climate policy, education, care and so on. Realism is also needed here. We must do what we can to promote the right choices in school education, to develop flexible retraining and further training through lifelong learning, to work more hours of people and to improve working conditions. We will have to make a great effort to increase inclusiveness in the labour market. The cut will help with that. But if we're being honest, we have to acknowledge that we're not getting there. Labour migration, also from outside the EU, will be needed to make the economy spin. Those who say that, for example, the Dutch agriculture and horticulture can exist without labour migration are fooling themselves and others. Anyone who says that this work must be done by people who are now in the welfare sector does not know the practice of the labour market. Our culture is not such that it is possible to move people into the greenhouses of the Westland at five o'clock in the morning. Having said that, the need for labour migration also means accepting continued population growth and continuing pressure on the housing market and on other facilities. Anyone who wants to do otherwise must honestly say that many of the things that are now being done in the Netherlands will no longer be done, with all the socio-economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u126	I think it is an interesting speech by Mr Van Kesteren, a realistic one too, on labour migration. I do have another question to ask. You mentioned the greenhouses, and we probably also need a lot of migrant workers in the meat industry. Has the CDA also thought about moving this industry, which in itself does not produce much for employment but which you could also move to countries where there is more room? I am also thinking of the nitrogen declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u127	The CDA Group hasn't thought about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u128	Is the CDA Group prepared to think about that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u129	I do not have the impression that we will do so soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u130	I see all kinds of outstretched hands here, including from the colleagues of the Party for Animals and GroenLinks to really think about this. I think it's an interesting way to think rationally about labour migration, but also to think rationally about what type of economy we want. I think it is no longer sustainable that we have so much polluting industry that we should also ask people from countries outside Europe to work here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u131	I see, of course, the correlation between labour migration, the economy and economic growth. At the same time, we live in a time of enormous transitions. That brings with it a lot of unrest, people feel threatened in their lives. I shudder to think that we are going to operate so massively by moving agriculture and horticulture from the Netherlands to Poland or other countries for the sake of a cleaner environment and so on. That cleaner environment will have to be achieved in a way that will not be so disruptive for our society. That's how I look at it. I just don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mr Van Kesteren says that labour migration is necessary; if you want something else, it is not possible. Now we expect 2 million people to be added in the Netherlands until 2050; those 17 million will be 19 million. That's without the labour migration you want, I think. How many people do you think can live happily and prosperously in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u133	Your question is beyond my competence. I can't estimate that, I have no idea. People in the Netherlands are generally happy. When I was in elementary school, 11 million people lived here. Now it's 17.5. That's very stretchy. I believe that it is not a question of how many people live in a country, but of whether people are able to live together in a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u134	I agree with you on that last point. But there is also a limit to how many people can live in a country. This is related, for example, to the surface: more people fit in Canada than in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is the most densely populated country in the European Union. Now it comes to what comes with it, so those migrant workers should simply join in. You don't have an estimate of a desirable number, we don't have a standard, so come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u135	Well, I think that goes a long way. I'm not saying you can go on an unlimited growth, but you have to be honest with each other. We have a certain standard of living, we are used to living in a certain way. That requires an economy, that requires work, and you need people to do it. We should not pretend that we can only do that from the people as we have them today. Labour migration will be needed. Of course, automation can also change a lot, but I am in favour of realism. I am in favour of honesty and I would like to discuss with everyone whether the Netherlands is full. But the answer to that is not to be given in objective terms. If we build the Lelyline and we can build more houses in the North of the Netherlands, there is a lot possible without compromising the country's viability. Why should we say in advance: we do not? Because the other side is that you really have to accept that the standard of living is deteriorating. I wouldn't want to make that choice right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u136	I don't think the choice is that simple. You pointed out that, when you were young, there were 10 million people living in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u137	11.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u138	When I was 12 years old. Those people worked Saturday morning, at least my dad did. Later we got the 40-hour working week. Now we have a little less. If we look at a term and want to maintain our prosperity, we must not continue to import more and more people. That's a bit of what I hear you say. You can also say: we set a limit on the number of people that need to be included, and then we're going to see how we can maintain our production and prosperity in a more efficient way. We do not need to get out now, but I would suggest that you also look at that side and not just say: we need labour migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u139	I agree. You can also look at it from the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u140	Mr Van Kesteren is indeed making a wonderfully balanced speech in which he says that we live in a time of transitions and that we must guard against disruption. He also pointed out in a small debate with Mr Vos that the CDA had not yet thought about a number of issues. Does Mr Van Kesteren agree with us that at the moment the primary sector of livestock farming is causing an enormous disruption, that it is one of the largest emitters of nitrogen and paralyses a large part of our economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u141	I agree that livestock farming is the cause of a great deal of pollution. I note that the cabinet is proposing measures to remedy this situation, at least to mobilise resources for it. That's what my party agrees with. But if I have learned one thing in recent years, it is that the way you solve problems with the people involved is very decisive for what happens in the end. I think we're facing that task. I know that there are agreements with the sectors on this subject. We're gonna have to do it. It's in my way of thinking that problems need to be solved in consultation between people; that's what I grew up with. We should not make the mistake of putting people in those sectors against the wall and saying to them, "You are done. Get out of here. Ready. You are to blame for everything." That leads to a huge contestation. If we did, it would go wrong. So I agree with the direction, but this really needs to be done in consultation with people who have worked in a particular sector throughout their lives, for generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u142	May I remind you that a long time ago the CDA was also at the cradle of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, which many people, including my party, predicted when it was introduced: this Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is never going to last in court; that is not possible? Your party colleague Koopmans said at that time: our entrepreneurs would only have benefited from it for a few years! That's exactly how it happened. There's been more nitrogen emissions. Entrepreneurs have benefited from it. The Council of State has said, of course, that this cannot be done at all. There's a long course of justice. Does Mr Van Kesteren agree with me that many measures taken in the recent past and in the future in the hope and expectation that they would lead to solutions have not led to solutions, that low-emission floors did not turn out to be the solution, that air scrubbers did not turn out to be the solution and that low-protein feed for livestock was not the solution? Does he agree that the flight is always being taken forward, that technical measures are being taken over and over again, whereby the people you were talking about, with increasing burdens, have to make major investments, which means that politics has to say: nice that you bought that low-emission stable floor, but it doesn't work, so it's too bad you have a big debt, but it's not the solution; we're going to come up with another solution? Do you agree that this is precisely the cause of panic in the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u143	For the sake of clarity. I agree with you that this has also led to problems. I disagree with you that technological solutions cannot also be part of the solution. I have the impression that you are thinking: all that must go away. While I'm thinking, no, that can't go away, it has to stay in a responsible way. That's part of technology. That is, I think, where our paths and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u144	That's a winged word, but well you can come back to that, I understood from the people sitting behind me. Just a little longer. Mr Van Kesteren always talks about not letting these people leave, but that we have to meet them. But the Central Bureau of Statistics, not me, says that dairy farming is going to shrink by 30% over the next ten years. These people are therefore being burdened with increasing burdens, in particular by technical interventions that have not worked so far. I didn't say technique doesn't work, but it hasn't worked so far. I would like to know from Mr Van Kesteren what his message is for those dairy farmers who know that they are in great trouble, according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, that their operations cannot be carried out and that scaling up is currently the only solution that is being offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u145	Finally, I propose that Mr Van Kesteren continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u146	My message is that the cabinet should consult with the sectors concerned, that it should make clear what can and cannot be done, but that it should seek solutions with compassion for these people. Mr. Chairman. Clear choices will also have to be made in care. The combination of more elderly people, more well-functioning, but expensive medicines and also a large shortage of staff makes for a complicated puzzle. Here too, clear wine will have to be given. How much money can ultimately be spent on care without any other necessary expenditure being at stake? Mr. Chairman. I have already talked about financial policy in macroterms. Those who talk about financial policy will naturally find themselves in two topical issues which will have to be resolved in the coming months: the AOW and the capital efficiency levy. First of all, the AOW. The cabinet proposes to increase the minimum wage by 7.5%, but separates the AOW from it. A one-time decoupling. I would also like to add myself to Mrs Jorritsma's words, because the structural link to prosperity remains. Nevertheless, this intention has been strongly criticised. In itself, that is understandable, because it has come into the public eye rather dull. The position of people with only AOW and not too high a pension has been regularly raised by my group in recent years. The systematic non-indexation of pensions is not correct and is becoming painful as inflation rises. We expect the cabinet, we hope that the cabinet will be able to make adequate proposals in the short term to maintain the purchasing power of older people structurally, if possible. Then there's the capital efficiency tax. I do not go into the technical aspects, but I note that here too the implementation of the policy was inadequate and that there was also a hard correction from the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u147	Does Mr Van Kesteren agree with us that if the government agreement states that the additional increase of 7.5% of the minimum wage will be linked to the benefits, except for the AOW, and that this means that the AOW is and remains decoupled from the increase of the minimum wage in the case of the additional increase? He just said: that's a one-time thing, but does he agree with me? If the minimum wage goes up by 7.5% and the AOW does not, does he recognise that in three years' time the AOW net is not more than 70% of the minimum wage, but only 65%? That is a definitive reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u148	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u149	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u150	I had stayed with the capital return tax and I said that there has been a hard correction from the judiciary. Now we're on the blisters. Repair's gonna cost a lot of money. The tax administration's ICT makes taxing on real short-term returns impossible. That is a harsh observation, which has been regularly warned in this Chamber. Moreover, my group would think it wise to use the deadlock surrounding the capital efficiency levy to find a way out of the exciting debate on capital inequality in the Netherlands. Poverty is the ugliest side of power inequality. It is good that we have a separate Minister for Poverty Reduction. It can count on the support of the CDA Group in its work. There are still few concrete policy intentions expressed in the coalition agreement and the government declaration. This is precisely where action is needed to create confidence. Children in poverty, that is simply not right in the Netherlands. What are the concrete intentions of the cabinet for the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u151	I listened carefully to the story about the court ruling on box 3. What are the CDA Group's thoughts on this? If I understood correctly, you are very good at answering questions briefly, certainly affirmatively, then you don't just want that repair, but then you want to go a step further when it comes to the ratio of labour to capital and capital.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u152	I think it would be wise to solve a problem that is emerging as well. The capital efficiency tax has been broken in court. Then there must be compensation. That is one problem. Then there is the question: how do we proceed? You are in favour of taking measures in the meantime, in other words before the actual levies are in place. I see a lot of people feel the same way. I think it is wise to act as a cabinet and as a parliament in good time, because if you wait too long to solve a problem, it will grow over your head. My proposal would be to start thinking now, and in the short term I think that could also lead to results on how we want to deal with capital taxes. I don't have any final ideas on that yet. I have read the proposals of GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I found them strong because they are simple proposals. Simplicity is always the hallmark of the true, you know that. But I think that the percentages used will have a slightly disruptive effect in Dutch relations. But percentages are percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u153	I would say realistic percentages. But is it true that we can find each other when we say that the repair in box 3 must be found and there must be within the sphere of power? That is the first question. Two. We must then talk to each other about the taxation of capital, for which we have made concrete proposals and which we consider realistic. Is that something to talk about with the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u154	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u155	I would have liked to ask Mr Van Kesteren a fundamental question about the capital efficiency levy. He says there's a problem. But that's not a problem; that's a judge's judgment. That's not a problem in itself. If there were a problem, it is that the 4 billion in revenue, which were actually illegal, are not there now. But the point of principle is that a capital yield levy is the legal basis for someone to make a return and thus get an income. Part of that income can be said by the community to do something about it for the public good. But the other principle is that there is also wealth on which there is no income or little income. Does the CDA think that this too, as Mr Rosenmöller wants, is taken away every year for the benefit of either poverty reduction or other social issues? The question is: have you thought about it in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u156	The answer is no. I haven't given that much thought. I'm not an absolute asset expert. But my call is to use the time to talk about this issue before it overtakes us. I understand the principle you're putting forward. On the other hand, simplicity of legislation is, of course, also very important. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u157	I agree with you that simplicity is very important. I think that the legal basis is even more important. I would therefore like to state in the recitals that the German Constitutional Court made a ruling on it a long time ago. In any case, according to the Germans, the removal of capital, or the return on it, is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u158	Mr. Chairman. In the aftermath of the surcharge affair, a call has been made for administrative renewal. That is also where the First Chamber must determine its position. The Recourt report also gives rise to this. For the CDA Group, if the emphasis is to be placed in the coming years on high-quality implementation of legislation, which then imposes additional requirements on the legislative test of the First Chamber. If you take it seriously, you're gonna have to pull the brakes more often. In this Chamber it is often a question of a balance between real consequences of a judgment and maintaining political stability, and that under the recognition of the political primacy of the House of Representatives. Within these limits, the First Chamber will have to seek its contribution to restoring trust between government and citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u159	Let me come back to the previous issue, the capital efficiency levy. I understood from Mr Van Kesteren that he had some sympathy with the plan of GroenLinks and the Labour Party on capital................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Do I understand from Mr Van Kesteren that he agrees that his own house is also in box 3 and therefore the property of his own house is taxed? From an earlier debate with him here in this Chamber, I understood that the CDA actually thinks that the home should be completely defiscalized, that it should not be box 3 and even out of box 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u160	I still find what I said back then. Nor did I say to Mr Rosenmöller that I think that his own house should be in box 3. I have talked about the structure of the proposal by GroenLinks and the Labour Party and the rates. The own house is a great asset for the CDA. That's more than an investment. It's not an investment. It can grow into an investment and then it has effects. So that's what you need to talk about. I also disagree with the President of De Nederlandsche Bank. I'm not gonna go with that. But you have to take all this into consideration, Mr. Van Rooijen. There are also people who have their own homes very young and sell them with huge profits. That is another situation than that of the people you and I were talking about in the previous debate. If someone has worked his whole life and lives in a house that has been paid off, I find it unacceptable that he suddenly has to pay taxes on it again. I don't see that kind of thing. I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group welcomes the new cabinet and wishes it much wisdom and realism. There's a saying that if you're not a bird, you shouldn't nest above the abyss. In this context, this means: do not make promises that cannot be fulfilled and assure you of feasible implementation of the plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u161	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I now give the floor to Mrs Vos, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u162	Thank you, Mr President. The PvdA Group consists of six people. We have talked a lot about this debate. We wish you all much strength, because the stellarness under which the government must begin is, to say the least, not very easy. Tensions in Europe, Ukraine, very high inflation, high gas bill, a far-reaching ruling by the High Council, a climate and nitrogen crisis, decreased confidence in government, and a toxic polarized social debate following two years of corona crisis. It's not easy, so we wish you much strength. In spite of the sternte, the PvdA, together with GroenLinks, would very much have liked to bear government responsibility. My colleague Mr Rosenmöller has already expressed his displeasure about this. Let me say that we will assess the government's plans on the basis of our ideals. Those are high ideals. As my colleague Ferd Crone says, they are so high that we can walk through them. The "what" of these plans isn't that complicated. In general, it's hard to disagree. The political questions lie with the "how." That's where the hard political choices are made. I just had a conversation with Mrs. Jorritsma of the VVD. Are you going to let the hardworking Dutchman pay to box 1, or is the government going to charge more taxes to the wealthy? Do you subsidise polluting companies, or do you do it very simply with market forces and a CO tax and burden the polluter? So, are you gonna be short on social services or are you gonna get your childhood services in order first? Here we will really have to think about the young people who have been so supportive of the elderly over the last two years, at the expense of their own state of mind. They've become lonely and depressed. We read the stories in the paper this morning. The PvdA feels differently about the ideal society than some of the parties in this government. Hopefully we agree that we want to keep society together. The realization that we're in the same boat together. We have laid down that fate bond in a number of general laws that an a stands for. These are the foundations of our welfare state, welfare, minimum wage, AOW and child benefit. If you're dependent on that, you have a rough life, but it's a base. Until 1998 we had another a, namely the AAW, the General Disability Act. I'll come back to that later. The reason I once became a politician was my anger about the difference between fixed and flex in the labour market. People with temporary jobs and whether or not they are forced to take up all the blows of the labour market, also in the last corona crisis. They often earn less than someone with a fixed contract, cannot buy a house and hardly build up WW or pension in the second pillar. Despite the fact that we have been talking about it for 15 years, nothing has changed fundamentally. In fact, inequality has only increased after the corona crisis. Whoever saw the movie Sorry We Missed You knows what forcedzzp-ship is. The film is about an independent parcel delivery guy, who shows what it means when you work on piecework. The parcel deliverer has to buy his own bus, is paid per stop and has to pee in a bottle because there is no time to take a break. The system chases him through the streets of England, doesn't take into account traffic jams or people who aren't at home, and in a robbery he can pay it all himself. His wife, caregiver and also self-employed, makes days of twelve hours. Since she's gone, she's only been paid for half the hours she cares. The journey in between she has to pay for herself, because zzp'er, because entrepreneur. So the family is disintegrating. Those parents are never home. The kids aren't doing well. And that father is even getting aggressive. Father. No, Mr. Chairman, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u163	I'm talking about fathers and disintegration! Mr. Chairman. This isn't an excrement of Anglo-Saxon thinking... No, it can't be, he's not that old and I'm not that young.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u164	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u165	It is not an excrement of Anglo-Saxon thought, it is the daily practice of polding the Netherlands. You can see them tearing by yourself in those whole brackish white buses. They are double parked to dump a stack of packages as quickly as someone opens, because they are paid each. The first question to the government is: are you going to deal with false self-employment, but are you going to deal with the clients of that bogus self-employment for once? I am referring in particular to the large parcel delivery companies. With the abolition of the General Disability Act, the AAW, the number of self-employed workers has increased enormously. In 2004 the WAZ was also abolished and you can see the line of the number of self-employed people: hoop, up in one go. Well, that's because these working people are very cheap for their former employer. They don't have to pay for disability, they don't have to be insured for retirement, and you can dump them when there's no work, and that's what happened. But also middle-income people who are in this situation, for example, have to do with this. And the fear of middle income is great, and I know it very well. They can fall very deep in a divorce, illness or accident. This is about people from the so-called Teletext 101 professions. You remember, at the beginning of the corona crisis, those were the people who had to come to work when we went into lockdown. Those are the hardworking Dutch. Then I'll get to the AOW. The reason the PvdA believes that the AOW should stay connected has everything to do with this. The labour market has been liberalised and flexible. Employees' insurance is available for fewer and fewer people. Assistance, minimum wage and AOW are the foundations of our welfare state, of what we consider civilised in the Netherlands. Linking those three elements retains that basis and ensures that the flex worker, the zzp'er, that man or woman with a modal salary, has security, and that is also worth something. The linking of these three elements ensures predictability and simplicity in the execution, we have just talked about that. It's so much simpler to just let the AOW take over with welfare and minimum wage. I look with compassion at the Deputy Prime Minister who is to reform the second pillar system, but just getting rid of the AOW is simply feasible and I also think it provides a lot of security for people who are insecure. It is then argued by some economists that AOW beneficiaries in the Netherlands are not or hardly poor and that it is very bad that this increase in the AOW also reaches wealthy pensioners. Yeah, that's what universal regulation gets you. That is also the case with child benefit and one can hope that it will be the same with education; that children of rich parents can sit in one class with children of poor parents again because they receive the same fantastic education. We find that Princess Beatrix also gets AOW so binding. She's in the same boat. It's as binding as the Prime Minister on his bike. If you mess with the simplicity of the AOW, you lose the support of the center.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u166	Mrs Vos also mentioned child benefit. There's another law hanging over this Chamber that's about not indexing child benefit. Does she agree with my group that we should draw attention to this today from the cabinet and perhaps even ask for that bill to be withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u167	Just like Mr. Van Kesteren: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u168	Thank you very much for this short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u169	It's all in the right direction. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u170	Does the government agree with the PvdA Group that, together with the minimum wage and assistance, the AOW is the basis of our welfare state? And does the government also agree with us that linking these three elements gives simplicity and predictability and that predictability and reliability of the government are crucial for trust in the government and certainly of the middle groups, the backbone of the Netherlands? And isn't it the easiest way to improve the purchasing power of the elderly through this link? That doesn't mean that you can't ask for anything more from richer elderly people, not because they don't need the AOW, but simply because they're rich. This brings us to the major omission of this coalition agreement: the lack of a plan for better taxation of capital. They have to now, but it wasn't there. The PvdA and GroenLinks have submitted a counter-budget and a bill for another property tax. We do not go into that in detail now, but does the government agree with our political groups that it is solid plans that leave the middle income and their savings alone and bring our taxes more in line with what is normal abroad? 'Cause you can watch that, too. I have one more comment to make on the search for the best way to tax assets. I'm also looking at the Secretary of State in charge of it. Surely it is ridiculous that a great many of the proposals that have been made in recent years are not considered feasible because then wealthy people will do everything they can to secure their ability with so-called tax planners. What kind of behavior is this? You live in a beautiful country, in which we try to give every child a good education, where the highways are neatly constructed.You can go to Belgium for a while; here they are neat and you have public transport from Jipsingboertange to Middelburg. And you don't want to contribute to that? I just can't reach that. Then you have it paid to the Dutch, in box 1 and with the VAT. The greed, the greed, the greed: I really don't have any words for it. I wonder what the Prime Minister thinks of that in all his sobriety, with his brackish Saab. This is also the place to standardize. Mr. Chairman. Now some self-reflection of me, on a difficult subject, because I supported the loan system as a Member of Parliament at the time. I was just talking about publicly funded education, which should be so good that rich and poor can sit together in the same class. An important goal of the loan system was: better education through more money to education. That goal was not achieved, not even seven years after its introduction. Many of the young people from the so-called 'unluck generation' have had to make additional debts, have not received more teachers and no better education, but many fellow students. As a icing on that bitter cake, they also received two years of online education. And, yes, another cherry: if they're honest with the bank about their student debt, they can't get a mortgage. My party made mistakes here, too. We are very aware of that. But how do we prevent a financial and therefore a social disadvantage in this loan system generation, compared to the generations before and behind them? We shouldn't consider that $1,000 as compensation, I heard from the government. So what are we gonna do? Are we going to give them a little longer education in adult life, for example with some larger study vouchers? Buying a house is not easy for this generation, but with a student debt it is certainly not easy to do. When the current loan system was introduced, it was promised that the study debt would have no effect on the application of a mortgage. Does the cabinet agree that the student debt should not be taken into account? We are very curious about the proposals that the cabinet is going to make to compensate this generation, because what is now is simply not enough. It doesn't have to be in money, but it's really about serious delays that this generation has built up. Mr. Chairman. In order to achieve all ambitions, this cabinet has rightly appointed more directors than the previous cabinet. They got burn-outs, but also the official device cracks in its joints. In 2010, one of the prime minister's most outstanding plans was to clean the stairs from above. By that, he meant firing civil servants. I didn't really think that was a sign of respect. However, a risk posed by more executives to specific policy areas is that the approach to problems would shred over more policy areas. How will this government monitor the integrity of policies? Is she going to ensure that governments are not burdened with opposing or unfulfilled orders? A coordinating minister can guard that. Following the debate on decentralisation on 11 May, Mr Ruud Koole's motion was adopted which would strengthen the position of the Minister of the Interior, for example by making it possible for him or her to become a co-signator of laws affecting the local authorities. This doesn't seem to happen, even though it's very necessary, especially in today's starryness. Is the government prepared to give these powers to the Minister of the Interior? One last topic: racism. We've been shocked again by the way in which the tax authorities drew up fraud lists. Mr Van Kesteren and Mr Rosenmöller also mentioned this. Dutch people with a migration background or even with a tan ended up in the wrong box. It is good that this House, through the POC, is investigating its role and how it can help to combat this type of racism. Perhaps we have allowed the sneaking language brutality and the sneaky dehumanizing of groups of people to grow too long. In our parliament there is a party that talks about people like "sprinkles," "roods" and "tsunamis." It dehumanizes your people. Anyone with a little knowledge of history knows where that can end. Using such words has nothing to do with freedom of speech. That's pure hate-sowing against people with migration backgrounds. Mr. Chairman. I would like to appeal to this government, to ourselves, to you and to all of us. Let's set the standard. Let's not allow hatred or racist language in this house and cut it off before it gets usurped. Thank you, Mr President. We look forward to the government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I now give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord, on behalf of the D66 Group. We're gonna have to clean up the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u172	I've just recovered from corona, chairman, so unless there's a new variant, I'm sure it's going well. Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding a debate in the First Chamber on the government statement made by Prime Minister Rutte on 18 January 2022 in the Lower House. A little bit of history. On Tuesday, 3 April 2007, the First Chamber also debated with a new incoming cabinet in response to the government statement at that time. After the decision in the College of Seniors, the following was made very explicit: "Because the debate does not have the character of the General Political Reviews, nor is there a need in the Senate for a copy of the debate held in the Second Chamber on the declaration of government, the First Chamber considers it sufficient that only Prime Minister Balkenende and the two Deputy Prime Ministers Bos and Rouvoet are present in the debate. It is a one-off debate, given the particular situation. It is not intended to set a precedent for the accession of new Cabinets in the future." Mr. Chairman. I find it uncomfortable that we are debating a declaration of government again today. That's not because of the content of that government statement. On the contrary, my group is in favour of the explanation that is before us. In one of the previous General Political Reviews I talked about the seat of the future, an empty chair that represents future generations at meetings, consultations and decisions. The future can of course mean future generations, but also our own future and, of course, the future of the planet as a whole. That chair helps to weigh the future into today's political decisions. I see that chair had a place at the table in the talks on this government statement. Plans have been made with a view to the future, in an agreement that rightly looks over one or more cabinet periods, with climate plans for a living earth, education plans, poverty reduction, an active anti-discrimination and emancipation policy for greater equality of opportunity and housing plans for affordable and sustainable homes for all. But now this government has to work on the implementation of the declaration. It is as the cabinet itself says in the government statement: "The government must be reliable, serviceable, close and just. This starts with a better implementation, because people there are most directly involved with the government." Transforming plans into policies and legislation: that's where this house comes in. The Constitution states that the Chamber is co-legislator and controller of the government. The State Committee on Parliamentary System writes: "In order to prevent the First Chamber from being duplicated by the Second Chamber, the First Chamber should place the emphasis on the quality of legislation in the review of legislative proposals." We have agreed among ourselves to check the quality of legislation for legality, feasibility and enforcement. That is precisely where I find my discomfort in this debate and in the preparations for it. In the order of things, we are the final move towards a careful weighing of legislation. On the other hand, we are discussing a statement today. There's not a letter of legislation on paper yet. Then why are we doing this, as the First Chamber? It touches on a doubt that I now, after seven years as a senator, feel more and more gnawing. Doubt if there is a role and a position for this Chamber at all, especially given how we fill it out here. Of course we are a political body. There is always a political balance. After all, a principle such as proportionality, or the weighting of fundamental rights, is a normative activity in which political ideology comes to the fore. But we make ourselves and the quality of legislation vulnerable by making the political role too great. The report of our Temporary Committee on the Working Method of the First Chamber states that 69% of respondents, therefore, agree that the First Chamber should exercise restraint as regards the treatment of policies, both in plenary and at committee level. That is also the conclusion of the State Committee on Parliamentary System. It sees the added value of the First Chamber as part of the entire system of power and counterpower. This will ensure careful, democratically legitimised decision-making and enhance the resilience of the democratic rule of law. We can also have an in-depth role, such as the setting up of a parliamentary inquiry or the setting up of a state committee. In December 2021, the results of the Working Group self-evaluation child allowance affair were presented, a critical self-reflection of our own working methods with some striking conclusions. First of all, the lack of control over people's capacity to act. And to the deeper problems at the IRS. In addition, the final weighing of different legislation draws the benefit of the doubt and then a legislative proposal gets a majority. Finally, commitments are lost and the requested evaluations are not dealt with. The Record Committee shows that we really need to focus on our core tasks. There's really more than enough to do there. Too many political debates distract us from where we can and must play a real role in the interplay of power and counterpower, in control of legislation and implementation. Here we can show our added value. Three parliamentary surveys are now being carried out in the House of Representatives: on the extraction of gas in Groningen, on the policy of fraud in services and on the policy of corona, where the First Chamber has clearly also played a role. It is important that we take a good look at this, because there are certainly lessons to be learned for us. At the same time, I would also like to ask the Prime Minister what lessons he has learned. He stated in the government statement: "In a broader sense, it is undeniable that the democratic rule of law in our country has suffered scratches and butts that need to be restored." What are the lessons learned by the Prime Minister about the damage suffered by the democratic rule of law under his direction? What else would he have done and how does he work on recovery? I'd like a reflection. Mr. Chairman. My group, like the State Committee on Parliamentary System, sees the added value of the First Chamber as part-time parliament. We thus retain some distance from the underplay in the Lower House and take our expertise and social experience into account in the assessment of legislation. However, if we want to make the most of our part-time role, this also requires something from the cabinet. We have minimal support and our time is limited. A sound provision of information from the government is therefore necessary. In concrete terms, my group is referring to the timely provision of documents and not losing sight of commitments. In addition, it is difficult to draw up the changes made by the House of Representatives. Today, with a fragmented Lower House, we are getting more and more amended legislation on our desk. In 2014, Mr. Postema of the Labour Party called on the government to include consolidated legal texts in novelles in order to clarify proposed legislative changes. This motion expired in 2018 and was therefore not carried out. Can the government explain why this motion has not been carried out? Especially in the case of complex legislation and legislation that has been substantially changed by motions and amendments, it is very difficult to carry out our work properly here. Therefore, the provision of consolidated legal texts should be the default, with a single exception, for example, in the case of emergency legislation. Can the government promise that the Senate will in principle receive a consolidated legislative text for future legislation, unless there are grounds for not doing so? I am considering a second-term motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. We check legislation for proportionality, but I find it disproportionate on a regular basis how we carry out our task here. Take, for example, the treatment of legislation around the corona crisis. Think of the CoronaMelder app and the extension of the Temporary Law measures. The Minister responsible at the time Hugo de Jonge was there in a different capacity now, between April 2020 and November 2021, he was no less than 63 hours and 30 minutes in the Upper House. So he's been working for a week and a half, or not even a working week, but just a week and a half in the Upper House. There were nine debates, one of which lasted 12 hours. I had the doubtful honor of being there as well. With motions, interruptions, speaking time, even more motions and even more interruptions, we held the VWS Minister longer in the First Chamber in the middle of a major crisis than often happened in the Second Chamber. Of course, it's not just us. The House of Representatives and the Minister also played a role in this. But it is also important that we put our own hands into this. This is going to be much more pregnant in the next year and a half, because the coalition, as has been said, does not have a majority in the Upper House. Because there is no natural majority for legislation in this Chamber, the government has an expensive duty to seek sufficient and broad support in this Chamber at a time. The cabinet will have to look again and again for new majorities. This offers an excellent opportunity to deal with the major issues of today with broad support in the Chamber, and hopefully also in society, along the lines of content, as this reflects the substantive expertise of many senators and their social roots and experience. We want to be able to say to people in that seat of the future: we came out together because the problems transcend the parties. That really demands something from this cabinet, but also from us here. It calls for us to be constructive and continue to talk about, for example, corona, poverty, climate and inequality of opportunity. I had to think about the role of the constructive opposition a few years ago. Mr. Chairman. Working on this input, I realize that together we have the key, or at least a piece of the key, in our hands. I would like to mention a number of concrete solutions. For example, we can choose to limit our work to legislation as much as possible and do it really well. We can choose to limit speaking time and the number of interruptions. We can choose to limit the number of motions. We can lay down in the Rules of Procedure the definition of the task of the First Chamber of the Court of Justice. We can focus on legislative quality, with which according to the Temporary Committee Working Method First Chamber one third of the members of the First Chamber were not known, bring to the attention of new members of the Chamber and also discuss periodically in this Chamber. We can ask the government to forward consolidated legal texts to us in principle from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u173	I hear Mrs Bredenoord unfolding all kinds of plans to limit the role of the First Chamber even further than it already is. That is her vision, but the coalition agreement also states that constitutional review is being looked at. The Netherlands is one of the few countries where this does not happen. We have no constitutional court. Our group is in favour of this. We also discussed this extensively with your party mate Backer last week. That's what you're here for. If you then want to limit this House even more than is already the case, I would ask Mrs Bredenoord: let us simply introduce a constitutional court quickly; then we can also abolish the House of First Instance, because that court can then proceed with that review. Perhaps that could be better than the First Chamber, especially if we add all those restrictions of yours. How does Mrs Bredenoord view that proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u174	I actually have two answers to that. First of all, let it be, these proposals for constitutional review. We are in favour of this. The content is of course important; so we're going to look at that. Secondly, we are not going to limit our tasks and methods. There is talk of function creep. We have all chosen new modalities, which are not at all part of the task of the First Chamber. So we're just gonna go back to what we're doing on Earth, and we're gonna do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u175	I partly agree that there are indeed a lot of things being done here that you can ask yourself are all such a task of the First Chamber, such as all kinds of expert sessions and parliamentary hearings, and I know what more, which also imposes a huge burden on the Registry, as we all know. Our plea would also be to focus less on this and more on the legislation. But my question remains. We are, like you, in favour of a constitutional court and review of the Constitution. We are also in favour of the courts being able to review the laws against the Constitution. Doesn't that make this First Chamber unnecessary in your view? Otherwise, we will be sitting here checking the laws against the Constitution, and there will be another court that will do it again. Then do it right in one go and then reset it. I haven't quite heard what you're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u176	I think Mr. Otten wants to hear if I'm in favour of abolishing the Supreme Court. In principle, if we can properly arrange the checks-and-balances in our system, this Chamber may be abolished as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u177	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u178	Okay, we'll go along with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u179	Then we agree. Mr. Chairman. There's a new cabinet starting now. My group intends to contribute to a dualist and bicameral system. In its statement, the government shows the intention to continue to move in the right direction a number of changes, for example in the areas of climate, education and equal opportunities. Now it is time for the train to continue at full speed. I wish the government, on behalf of my group, every success in implementing this ambitious progressive and social coalition agreement, and at all times not to lose sight of both pace and implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u180	Did I understand correctly that Mrs Bredenoord just said to Mr Otten: let go of the proposals for a constitutional court? Is it not quite strange that one of the largest governmental parties should say to a representative of one of the smallest opposition parties: go ahead, we are not going to do it? Or did I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u181	You did understand correctly, but you didn't understand correctly. The coalition agreement states that there will be experiments with constitutional scrutiny, so my answer was actually: the cabinet is going to come with this and we are going to look at it with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u182	Well, that kind of reassures me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u183	Oh, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-15-eerstekamer-3.u184	This seems like a good time to move on to lunchtime. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch until 1:30 p.m.
