ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the message that four emergency services in Drenthe and Groningen are closing because of staff shortages. We have eight participants in the Chamber. The first speaker of the Chamber is Mrs Agema of the PVV group. As everyone else, she has four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It will only happen to you that paramedics in an acute emergency are trying to save your life somewhere on a flight lane, because hospitals everywhere in the region have put in withdrawal stops for their emergency rooms, because they are full or do not have people to provide acute care. Last year, in election time, everyone was very sorry. Then the plan to halve the number of emergency rooms went off the table. And now they're just gonna go through with it. It's opportunism at the top. The reason for this debate is that it can be so serious with the recording stops that four emergency services in Drenthe and Groningen closed at the same time in the evening. According to a spokesperson of the Groningen UMCG, a recording stop is now almost every day. As a result, ambulances cannot transfer their patients, driving time is not reached and problems arise with the following emergency reports. The chairman of the Wilhelmina Hospital Assen can no longer guarantee that someone in a life-threatening situation can always go to his hospital. This is a very nasty situation, and it's gonna happen to you. However, the previous minister performed it to claim that such a withdrawal stop would improve quality and patient safety. No one agreed with him. The Dutch Association of Emergency Aid Doctors did not, and Mr Gaaakeer did not, who obtained his PhD on the optimisation of emergency aid posts. The Regional Consultation Acute Care expressed its great concern and hospitals rang the alarm. Even the VVD pulled into the turd. De Jonge had only one supporter: the chairman of the Erasmus MC, Mr Ernst Kuipers, our new minister. How is it possible? At the moment, we have only 80 emergency rooms with 24 hour range left. Ten years ago, we had over 100. How did this make acute care better, I ask the Minister. What has resulted from the closure of all these emergency services except an increase in the workload on the remaining emergency services, an increase in the number of burn-outs among the staff, an increase in the outflow of qualified care workers and an increase in the number of time-outs, withdrawal stops, which will put the quality of care under pressure? Where is the evidence that closure of emergency services, a halving of the number of emergency services, has made or can improve the quality of care? With monitors, consultations, pilots and the dispatcher director, the acute care really isn't gonna make it. What we need are sufficiently trained doctors, nurses and beds on the emergency services. We need an excess capacity on the emergency services, according to Mr Baden, President of the Dutch Association of Emergency Doctors. I'd like a response. My second question concerns the previous Minister's claim that the shortage of staff has continued because the hospitals have not followed the advice of the Capacity Body. That is, at least, very briefly. It is, after all, thanks to the austerity policy of the same minister that the hospitals had no money left to attract or train additional staff. After all, the main agreement does not allow care to grow, while the demand for care increases every year. The health care staff, which is the biggest cost for a hospital, will therefore suffer from this. The shortage of staff in care is caused by government policy and not by hospitals. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. The personnel problem in the care isn't easy to solve, but it's possible. There is more possible than simply closing down emergency services. Promote the three-year training of medical care provider acute care. Add a specialization acute care to the regular HBO-V courses. Above all: remove the entire acute care chain from the market and from the main agreement, and turn it into a non-economic service of general interest, a NEDAB. It will then be paid through an availability contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since 2008, the number of emergency services in the Netherlands has decreased from 104 to 80. As a result, people are longer on their way to the nearest emergency room and the pressure on the remaining posts has only increased. As a result, they should also announce patient stops more frequently. Ambulances drive around longer with their patient in the back of the car. Expensive time is wasted, time that can be spent on other patients. Last year, in Drenthe and Groningen, four of the five ERs were temporarily closed, with all the risks involved. Shortly before, in 2020, in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal, emergency aid posts were lifted. As a result, the remaining aid posts in the region have to take care of their patients. It is not surprising, of course, that the crowds and the number of stops are only increasing as a result. Does the Minister agree with the SP that closing the emergency services in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal proved to be a mistake afterwards? The Minister does not dare to make any other choices in his solutions than his predecessors, because he also focuses on scaling up and more bureaucracy in the region. The Minister apparently thinks that concentration of care, i.e. scaling up, is going to reduce staff shortages. But that's not what most caregivers think. A lot of nurses don't want to travel 45 minutes to get into their hospital. They like to be able to work well together in a cozy team with familiar faces, a team that has played well with each other. The SP therefore does not see scaling up in emergency care as a solution either. In all things, human measure is missed as far as we are concerned. This is also written by the president of the Association of Emergency Doctors. He says: excessive efficiency thinking increases the workload and pushes the human dimension to the background. A doctor told me that half of the nurses who start in the E.R. leave in two years. If the Minister is talking about staff shortages, how can this problem not be addressed? And how is it that the workload remains so high? How can it be, to name one idiot, that nurses and doctors have to pay to park their cars at a hospital? So that's paying to do your job. In addition to travel time and working conditions, security for many care providers in acute care is also very important. Think of the young doctor who has to choose which hospital he will work in for the longer term. Such a young doctor once said to me: "I am not going to work on a sinking ship. I'm not going to work in a hospital that I don't know if in ten years' time I'm gonna be providing the care that I've been trained for for so long." So if you want more security and you want more staff, you have to make sure you can provide that security to people. I'd like to ask the Minister what he has plans to do that. The minister seems to forget the idea of tying people to care. The SP also finds it remarkable that he states that it would be a solution, as now seems to be happening in Arnhem and Nijmegen, that caregivers start working in multiple hospitals at once. The SP does not see this as a solution to the shortage of personnel. In fact, it makes the work less attractive. One of those doctors said to us: "It's actually strange what's happening there. You're actually going to treat caregivers who are on permanent duty as some sort ofzzp'ers, while in other places in the care we would like to have fewerzzp'ers, less flexible forces. Isn't that actually an opposite movement?" Mr. Chairman. The Minister also writes in his letter that he does not want the quality and safety of care to depend on the region in which someone lives. Of course, that makes sense. But why does the Minister say this? Does he have any signs that the quality of care is not in order at all emergency services? In addition, we must not forget the accessibility and accessibility of care. It should not be the case that, if you live in Drenthe or Groningen, you are on the road much longer before you can get emergency care. Mr. Chairman. The SP therefore considers that the closure of emergency services should stop and that the Minister should carry out an investigation as soon as possible to see which hospitals should return to an emergency room which has closed earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	Very well, thank you. Then Mrs Ellemeet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Wake up, look on your phone and see that there are all kinds of shootings and attacks all over the country in Ukraine, really puts everything in a bizarre perspective today, I have to say. A number of colleagues have already said it, but I would also like to say once again that my thoughts are with all the people in Ukraine: all those people who have got into their cars and stand in front of the supermarket to store stuff and the people who are in their basement. It's just too bizarre for words, and this in Europe. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about a completely different subject now. That is what we are going to do, because that is also part of showing how resilient our democracy is. It concerns the temporary closure of emergency services in Groningen and Drenthe. I will also speak on behalf of the Labour Party. At the moment when four emergency services are temporarily unable to take in new patients in Drenthe and Groningen, there is something structurally wrong with the acute care landscape. When I read the Minister's letters, it turns out that the continuity of care was not in danger. When we look at the numbers, it's all good in itself. The driving times of the ambulances are still within the standards. It may not seem a problem in our paper reality, but if you live in Hoogeveen or City Canal, it feels different. Two emergency services closed in 2020. Mr. Chairman. The time-outs of four emergency services on 10 September last year are a consequence of this. As the mother of two children, I know how important it is to have acute care close. Something can always happen. Usually something happens: your child gets sick, falls down the stairs or gets a hockey ball against his head, like I've been through recently. Then you'll have to get to the care soon. If you live in Hoogeveen, you could live in your own city until recently. Now you have to go to the doctor's office in Meppel. That's over a 20-minute drive. If it turns out in Meppel that you have to go to the emergency room, you'll continue to Zwolle. That's another 20 minutes in the car. Before you get to the E.R., you've already driven 50 kilometers. Mr. Chairman. The closures in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal have major consequences for the care landscape in that region. At the same time, we see that care providers have been able to continue to organise the care there with De Zorgtable. They work together, allowing patients to leave the emergency room more quickly, there is insight into the capacity at the emergency rooms and therefore patients can also be properly distributed. The driving times of ambulances are actually quite good there, even better than in many other parts of the Netherlands, so for example in the Randstad. The healthcare providers really deserve a big compliment for the way they organised this. I have also had a lot of contact with our deputy, who was the driver of the Healthcare Table in Drenthe. It's really nice to see how it's organized there. But as I have just argued, acute care is more than the driving times of ambulances. Care must also be close, so that you or your child can be taken care of quickly if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	A short question about the part of just now. Mrs Ellemeet mentioned all kinds of times in terms of driving. I know that the emergency station is closed, both in Stadskanaal and in Hoogeveen, but a basic emergency station has come back for that, especially for hockey balls and other non-A1 incidents. What does that say about driving time or accessibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	That is very good and that is also in line with the compliments I have given: they look very creatively at how they can organise it in an alternative way. My concern is that there are still people who have to drive from A to B and that therefore not all care can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	One short follow-up question, because Mrs Ellemeet triggers me with the word 'creative'. It's a basic emergency post that's just open all day and where you can be referred to. If there is a report of a more serious incident, the arrival time to the other locations is still within the standard. I hear the concerns, too, but I'm a little bit looking for what your concern is in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	My concern is that we get signals that people are going through these routes, so from one place to another. That is the experience of people in that region: there is often a long time to drive and referrals must be made. I agree with Mrs Paulusma that some basic services are good. I mean "creative" in a positive sense; it's in no way offensive. It is smart to organise the care, but we should not close our eyes to the experiences, the daily experiences of people in the North. That is my point, in particular. Mr. Chairman. I had stayed with my compliments to the region, to Drenthe and to the Health Table. I also said that sometimes driving times are still long and that it is necessary to take a critical look at them and make improvements. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, together with the Healthcare Table in Drenthe and, of course, with citizens, to discuss this acute care landscape, especially in the North, and whether for a good acute care landscape these two basic emergency posts should become fully-fledged emergency services again. I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. If it turns out that one or two or both emergency rooms need to be opened again, it is not possible to do so. My group understands that, too. There are two underlying problems that you must address: firstly, a shortage of staff and secondly, a shortage of income from emergency services. In addition to the large shortage of nurses, there is also a shortage of doctors in that region. That is why we had to close the emergency services one day, but the deficit continues. In the region there is also a shortage of general practitioners. So I would like to ask the Minister if he can, together with the care tables, draw up a plan to train enough doctors and nurses there. Mrs van den Berg has been making this point for a long time. In addition, I understand that the emergency services in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal do not receive any availability contributions. Then I understand you can't stay open forever. How about that, I'll ask the Minister. And could he possibly modify this? I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. We can also really learn something from the region. The Zorgtable in Drenthe offers a glimpse into the future of organising care, where collaboration across the domains is central. But I think that is also necessary in the rest of the region. So is the Minister prepared to facilitate such a care table in Groningen as well? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. Then Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a CDA, we strongly supported Mrs Agema's request to speak on the issue of emergency aid in the North of the Netherlands, because unfortunately I have to conclude that I can actually repeat my speech of 3 April and 3 October 2019. That's worrying. This means that the situation has still not improved and even deteriorated earlier. I also find it worrying that, in his response of 1 October, the Minister refers to an investigation by the Healthcare Authority that was sent to the Dutch Parliament in October 2019. That investigation took place in response to my question in April 2019 to provide an overview of the emergency stops per hospital location per day from January. During my work visit to Hoogeveen, people said: we used to have two stops a week and now there are two stops a day. So I want an overview. Mr. Chairman. I already indicated in autumn 2019 that I didn't think it was a study of anything and also a far too limited assignment to the Healthcare Authority. Firstly, four regions have been investigated, but we have 25. Secondly, "97% no time-out" doesn't say anything either. Does this mean there's a one-time lockdown of five hours or ten times a half-hour? This makes quite a difference for the accessibility and also for the workload and stress of the ambulance staff. Mr. Chairman. In God we trust; all others must bring data. I've said that before. I conclude, however, that a system of its own has apparently been set up in the North and that there is good cooperation in it. Why can't this system be applied throughout the Netherlands? The Minister also refers to the acute care monitor that appeared in April 2021. The Healthcare Authority indicates that to keep acute care accessible, more cooperation is needed and more focus on the movement towards appropriate care. The NZa concludes that during the covid outbreak it was seen how quickly all concerned in the care can work together on the basis of trust if the pressure becomes very high. And that's exactly where he sits. Because once that pressure is less, it is: away cooperation, each for himself! Mr. Chairman. My initiative paper Healthcare in the region of January 2019 finally led to legislation as of 1 January 2022, which makes consultation of regional government mandatory in the event of changes in acute care. How does the Minister ensure that the law is properly implemented? For example, are there any information meetings on this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	Minister Kuipers does not dare to tell us how many recording stops there have been in the past year, I think, because he does not mention that in his letter. Between 2015 and 2018 there was a doubling to almost 6,000 in 2018. Where does the CDA want it to go in the future? How does Mrs Van den Berg see the development of emergency services? Does she agree with the Minister's plans to halve the number of emergency services? Or does the CDA say it's not gonna support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	The CDA is always open to looking at creative solutions or suggestions. Mrs. Agema is right to say that there were 6,000 stops. Those numbers have only increased enormously in recent years. That is not the way forward. So it's fine if the Minister says: I have creative suggestions on how I can give much more comfort with a different way of organizing and make sure that the number of stops goes down. That will be one of the criteria for the CDA. Mrs Agema also knows that we have always said that it is very important that care is not only available and affordable, but also accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	I like these words, but I do not think they are very clear. The Minister intends to continue closing emergency posts. This will put further pressure on availability in the region and in the North. My question is very specific: how does the CDA deal with this? Will the CDA support the reduction of emergency services? Because if anything is lost in care, we all know that we won't get it back after that. Is the CDA going to support the reduction of emergency services?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u16	In the letter that we have received from the Minister these days and which I would like to return to in the main debate, the Minister writes that he wants to concentrate highly complex acute care. I am very curious about the concrete proposals to this effect. The regional criterion is very important to us. We have also said in children's heart surgery: concentrating is not centralising. Mrs. Agema also indicates... Mrs Ellemeet mentioned the example: your child falls down the stairs, your neighbor falls down the stairs, or you fall down the stairs; then you should not go looking where you can go for emergency help. All these will be criteria that we are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u17	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u18	Let me come back to the question of how this is going to be implemented. The Woerden region, with an adherence of 70,000 inhabitants, still does not have a general practitioner post after 17.00 hours. In Venray and Oldenzaal the doctor's office is closed. In Oostburg there is a pilot for the adaptation of evening, night and weekend services. In West Brabant, a hospital is being moved. A member of the board, Mr Mante, says in the newspaper: "Nevertheless, that new hospital in Roosendaal is a major advance for all West Brabanders." The fact that people on Tholen are also dependent on the hospital is simply pushed aside. For the time being, there will be no general practitioners post in Bergen op Zoom. Mr. Chairman. A well-functioning general practitioner's office in the neighborhood reduces the influx into the emergency room. How is it checked and monitored after changes in acute care to ensure that driving times for both emergency and general care are permanently met? Is the Minister aware that a mathematical system is being applied in some regions which has greatly improved ambulance times? Is the Minister prepared to identify the experiences, results and advantages and disadvantages of this? Finally, Mr President. What about the implementation of my motion of 14 February 2019 about the fact that various calculations are always made in advance, such as expected changes to the adherence figures, and that they are shared with regional directors? The very last question, Mr President. The Minister notes that hospitals do not train enough. What does the Minister intend to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you. Then Mrs van den Hil from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mr President. If you need medical attention, you want to be helped as soon as possible and nearby. In the Netherlands this can fortunately be done during the day with your own GP, which you can refer to the hospital if necessary. But also in the evenings and weekends we can call on our care in the Netherlands, via the GP and in life-threatening situations via 112, after which you will be taken to the hospital by ambulance. Of course, you want to be able to get there quickly and always. Let's be clear about that. Then it's annoying and it worries you when you read in the paper about the closure of first aid posts for lack of staff. Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the message that emergency services in Drenthe and Groningen had to set up a time-out. Which means, given the crowds, there's no time for patients here, but you can go to another emergency room in the neighborhood. We understand that there are concerns about this and we have asked written questions. Acute care should be available to everyone in every region. Can the Minister confirm once again that in case of a life-threatening situation someone can always go to an ER, even during a time-out? Mr. Chairman. To keep care accessible everywhere, I believe that the key concepts of inflow, flow and outflow are important, both on the human side and on the patient side. Staff must work on inflow and flow so that there is as little outflow as possible. Patients should be provided with flexible inflow and careful appropriate flow and outflow. To allow staff to flow in, the VVD thinks of attractive working conditions, less control pressure and more control. I would like to hear from the Minister what follow-up is being given to the programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg, for example. I also ask the Minister about the implementation of the motion of the CDA to consider the title emergency medical doctor as a legally recognised specialist title. With regard to the flow, there is a task redeployment task. Is this enough in acute care? Are there, for example, guidelines and hand-outs designed for this purpose? How can we ensure that estimates of the Capacity Body are better monitored? Can new forms of training be used, for example through previously acquired competences and faster re-registration where this can be done? Mr. Chairman. Inflow, flow and outflow of patients is also important. On the inflow side I underline the importance of collaboration and good triage, so that the patient can be treated in a suitable place. For example, the emergency component of the capacity monitor of the National Platform for Healthcare Coordination is already used in a number of hospitals. This makes it possible to see where a possible time-out is threatening. This allows patients to be spread across the region. Collaboration also helps in the flow and outflow of patients. There are already good regional initiatives. For example, in the Zeeland region, the Joint Central Action Point on Movements is used. This allows patients to flow faster and more quickly to locations where they can get the right care. How do we ensure that these kinds of good initiatives are better followed? Finally, Mr President. Emergency care must remain accessible, accessible and of good quality to all in the future. On those first two I reflected... Shall I continue, or is Mrs Van den Berg interrupting now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u21	No, you just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u22	I'm just gonna keep going. The Netherlands Emergency Department Evaluation Database, NEED, has been developed by the sector itself. A number of hospitals have already joined this platform. The aim is to improve and standardise quality registration in the sector. The VVD seems to be a good standard in order to avoid unnecessary certification. What is the status of this standardisation effort? Mr President, I will conclude. All interested parties should stand and be involved when changes in the care landscape occur, in order to ensure the accessibility of acute care to patients, now and in the future. I am therefore looking forward to the plan that the Minister will shortly present on future-proof acute care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u23	Very well, thank you very much. One more question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you for waiting, Chairman, because Mrs Van den Hil also mentioned the NEED, the Netherlands evaluation emergency data system. I have been advocating for years that this should be used throughout the Netherlands, precisely in order to make good decisions. So thank you for having the VVD in there at least now. Mrs van den Hil mentioned several examples of good regional initiatives. My compliments to Zeeland, but also to what one has done with the systems in the North. However, does Mrs Van den Hil also think that the Minister should be directed to make this mandatory for the whole of the Netherlands? In this way, not everyone makes their own regional system on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u25	I think it is important to check which systems exist in the Netherlands and what the good examples are. This should be shared with the professionals. That was my call when I talked about quality, and that is also the case here. See with each other what great examples there are. Work it out. See how you can follow that up with each other. But one region is not the other. We're talking about the North Netherlands today. That's different from Zeeland. Of course you have to standardize. That was my call, too. But also look at the best practices and whether everyone can watch them, especially the professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u26	I fully agree that one region is not the other and that you must take that into account. That must therefore be taken into account. You also say, "Look what the professionals are doing." At covid we saw that under great pressure they have worked together tremendously and top. But the moment the pressure gets a little less, we see that cooperation goes down. The CDA is therefore asking itself: we are on this line of thinking about how we can make cooperation more focused. Does the VVD agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u27	We're always in favour of working together. I myself come from a sparsely populated region. That's where you're gonna have to do it. In the North, it is. So I certainly agree that we should give direction, but also that we should all look very closely at what the professionals want. And then come up with one solid plan. In addition, you will find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u28	I think we're not entirely in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u29	But that's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u30	But in the end, CDA and VVD always agree. I heard a warm, involved contribution from the VVD, from the cold, cold sanitators who have brought care to the edge of the abyss over the past ten years. I also heard Mrs Van den Hil emphatically put the outcome of this debate in the hands of the Minister, who is going to come up with his plans. I find that very interesting, you know, from the VVD. Last year, just before the elections, it was the VVD that distanced itself from the charcoal sketch of acute care, in which the number of emergency services is halved, from the 80 we now have, to 30 to 40. In the Minister's letter following this debate, these charcoal sketches suddenly pop up again. He also said in his previous role: I am in favour of halving the number of emergency services. So I just want hob or calf now. Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA did not give it, so I also ask the VVD: is halving the number of emergency services for the VVD acceptable, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u31	Mrs. Agema brought up the charcoal sketch. I think you are asking two questions in one. That charcoal sketch has been declared controversial. This has been the subject of an internet consultation and other reports have been added. They're being merged. So I'm not putting my fate in the hands of the Minister. In fact, I want to keep influence on that and also the VVD wants that. I have indicated that acute care should remain accessible and available in every region. Is that in an emergency room? It's not always gonna be like that. Hom or calf is therefore also complicated in this case, because we are talking about the overall landscape of acute care. Especially for me, since I have worked in acute care and long-term care, an acute care piece is a complete picture of the overall care landscape. In it you have general practitioners, but also prevention at home. We have made a motion or amendment on fall prevention. So look what you have at home... Who does go to the emergency room and who doesn't? Find care as close to home as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u32	I didn't ask a complicated question at all. The VVD did not support halving the number of emergency posts in election time. This minister was for that in his old role. In this letter, which is part of this debate, he also retrieves the charcoal sketch by halving the number of emergency aid posts. So I like to get hob or calf from the VVD. Does the VVD support halving the number of emergency services, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u33	I don't think this is a yes or no question. The charcoal sketch was declared controversial at the time. Other studies have now been carried out. I told you, everyone must be able to be helped close by. That is wider than just an emergency service, because you and I do not want to end up in that emergency service, but first contact our own doctor and do not want to go to the emergency service.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Paulusma of the group of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you need help yourself or if someone you care about is in need, you want help to be there quickly. You want to be helped quickly and well in a hospital where they're ready for you. Professional assessment of what someone needs in need must be leading as far as we're concerned. Where you can get the best care at that time, D66 comes first. This doesn't always mean the hospital around the corner. That could be because of the nature of your injury or the pressure on the ERs, which we're talking about today. It may be that the local emergency services have just received a number of complex patients and are dealing with a peak load, and therefore set a time-out to spread the pressure of care across the region. The fact that there are time-outs and that they are being applied is not what this debate should be about, but about the bottlenecks and the organisation of our emergency services. One of the problems that we will continue to face in the coming years is staff shortages. Many of my colleagues have spoken about this and I am also concerned about this. And not only when it comes to the occupation of the emergency services, but precisely when it comes to the occupation of the entire chain. In the north of the country there is already very good cooperation, precisely in order to reduce deficits and also to train together. They do this under the heading of Care for the North, nine hospitals and three ambulance regions. Can the Minister indicate what lessons we can draw from this cooperation? I would also like to see how we can reduce the pressure on emergency services at all by looking for a faster flow of people to the right place and/or other places or that they do not need to be sent in at all. Because should we not support and expand the innovations that are already being used, such as the remote viewing by doctors with ambulance staff, as well as even better sharing real-time data when it comes to, for example, availability or looking smarter and/or smarter at function differentiation? I would also like a response from the Minister. And I asked questions about it before, including the message "Many trauma patients end up in the wrong hospitals." Then it is mainly about women of age, because of their fragile bones but also because they complain less. Els Borst stated in 1999 that serious trauma patients should go to specialised hospitals, not only for the treatment in the first aid itself, but also for the follow-up to get the correct diagnosis on the right operating table. This saves lives. So as far as D66 is concerned, we certainly have the debate on accessibility and staff shortages, especially when we are talking about the region, because I also hear the concerns that people have, but we must also dare to say that further away is sometimes better, that concentration of trauma can also contribute to solving the problems we are talking about today, but above all can also increase the quality of care. Even now, I am curious to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u36	A question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u37	I waited a while, but I may have misunderstood something from Mrs Paulusma at the beginning when she said that today it is not about the number of stops at emergency services. I think that's one of the cores. Mrs Agema has even mentioned that there were 6,000, so that seems to me to be one of the key problems that we should also discuss in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u38	I do not deny that either, because that also complicates the work on emergency services and all kinds of facilities. Only, I want to talk mainly about the reason why this is happening. One of them is staff shortages, how we set up the care landscape, how we do innovations. In my opinion, you have also referred to all kinds of cooperation. I would like to have the debate on this and also expect solutions from the Minister, in order to reduce the amount of time-outs. But the occasional time-out doesn't have to be problematic. You also referred to Mrs Agema, who just mentioned the UMCG, where there is a daily time-out. That's not right. So we also need to be careful with what we're saying. In the North there are regular time-outs, the UMCG doesn't. A time-out is difficult and we have to deal with it very carefully. We need to remove the causes behind them as much as possible, but I do not think that it happens occasionally to distribute the pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u39	If there's a time-out, I think basically something goes wrong somewhere in the whole chain. So as far as I'm concerned, every time-out is too much. I also indicated that in the work visit I made to the Hoogeveen ambulance service it was said that there used to be two per week, now there are two per day and sometimes three per day in summer. Does Mrs Paulusma also realize what this means for the people on those ambulances and for those who then work on that emergency service?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u40	I very much agree with Mrs Van den Berg. We need to ensure that the amount of time-outs is drastically reduced, but then we also need to look at, for example, where we place ambulance stations, how we do regional distribution and how we share data better. But if there's a major accident coming in and the emergency room is full, I can quite understand why an emergency department would be intruding on a time-out. So I don't think the remedy is a bad remedy if it allows you to distribute pressure and continue to guarantee quality, but not in the amount that we are talking about. So we certainly agree on that, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u41	Let me look at Mrs Agema to see if she will continue on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u42	I just got that from an article; I didn't make that up. Now, according to the spokesperson of the University Medical Centre Groningen, it happens daily.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u43	When you read the article, it says: "The spokesperson says that the UMCG is always open and has no time-out." I just apprehended them, too. So for the sake of care, I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mrs Paulusma rightly says that this very acute concern has many elements. I'd like to talk about the emergency care you might need in everyday life. We had an interruption about it, then Mrs Paulusma said: if you have a base, an emergency station that is open 24/7, then that is not enough. Now, unfortunately, that basic emergency care is not open 24/7, it is only open weekdays from 8 am to 22 pm and not on weekends. So does Mrs. Paulusma agree with me that that is problematic when you stand with your child on the sports field and who gets a ball against his head, which unfortunately is often on the weekends? So you can't go to those emergency rooms on the weekends?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u45	I don't think I said "24/7." I get that people want to feel like it's around 24/7. I also think that we should be so real that when a child gets a hockey ball to the head, which is not A1 category, you have to be in a hospital or in the ambulance immediately. Driving times in the Netherlands are still not below the standard; 98.8% make it, both on location and to a post. Only in the Wadden Islands this is very problematic, so maybe we should look there if there is a lot of hockey. We can't rig up for every hockey ball that people might need. I think we should be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u46	We're not talking about A1, we're talking about incidents that are there, A2 to stay in the jargon for a while. So about when something happens to you, even if you live in Hoogeveen, close to your child or your mother who fell down the stairs, you can go somewhere. The whole problem now is that that facility has dropped. If you live in Hoogeveen now and your mother falls down the stairs, you'll have to go to Meppel's GP to see if you can get to that emergency room. Then you can go back to Hoogeveen and, if it isn't on the weekend and not after 10:00 p.m., get the care there. I would very much like to hear from Mrs Paulusma the recognition that it is not good enough in the North. Yes, we must be practical and we must see what can be done, but we must also have the ambition to improve care there. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u47	I share Mrs Ellemeet's view that the concerns in the North are justified and that we need to address them. But I also saw your call for the re-opening of emergency stations in Hoogeveen and in Stadskanaal, while people in Hoogeveen are not only dependent on Meppel, but can also go to Assen or Emmen. Many people from Hoogeveen take directly the highway to Groningen, where there are also two hospitals, or the exit to Zwolle. In terms of driving times, that still works, even if you go by your own transport. I like your suggestion of having a conversation with civilians. I also spoke to the King's Commissioner, Mrs Klijnsma, exactly about this Health Table. Let's do that. If people feel they're not safe, I think we should improve that. We need to explain it better and also propose solutions if they really are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u48	I don't think Mrs Paulusma's phone call can just knock out the coverage in the local media. The Dagblad van het Noorden has reported that it was first weekly and now almost daily. We also read in the Minister's letter that it is not going to be any less. My question to Mrs Paulusma is: does she actually accept that there are 6,000 recording stops per year, or does she think it should be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u49	A lot of people have a lot of worries about getting help when they need it. Then it is also good if we carefully choose our words in the story we tell here. I agree with you: 6,000 is too much. 6,000 recording stops or time-outs is too much and it needs to be better. That is why we need to look at all the problems I have just raised, but we also need to talk about where concentration of trauma care can help solve the problems we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u50	I notice that both VVD and CDA and D66 are all about the hot stuff when it comes to the question of what they stand for, what they have agreed and what the minister is going to do. Is D66 going to support half the emergency services? The VVD and the CDA aren't answering that. The Minister wants that. The charcoal sketch that was off the table is back. What's D66 gonna do, tap away from me when I didn't make up what I said at all, but just get it out of a well?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u51	Earlier in my speech, I spoke about the trauma centers. I think we should have the conversation or be more focused, so that it benefits the care. That is different from the image Mrs Agema is trying to put down: that we want everything closed and that no one will be able to go anywhere. I believe that we should be able to make choices in our acute care according to variety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u52	I have a short question. Mrs Paulusma cites the example of the trauma centers. She specifically mentioned that it was about improving the quality of care. Now we have just had another debate on concentration and where quality can be improved. My group makes a clear distinction between concentration coming from the profession and aimed at improving the quality of care, and concentration chosen out of scarcity, because there are large deficits and there are no more money to go to. Does Mrs. Paulusma see that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u53	We're talking a lot about concentration right now. This must be done carefully and also in the context of things. That was my plea at the heart centers, and it will be here. The chairman of the Dutch association of emergency doctors also made a plea for the courage to choose concentration, but in the context of things. I therefore find it very interesting to ask the Minister to have this discussion with the profession in order to see if we can improve this. Mr President, I will conclude. An accident, a heart attack or a terribly clumsy slipper in the kitchen: it can have great consequences for people's lives. Good and accessible first aid care is then extremely important. But it also turns out that most Dutch people opt for the best care, even if it is not around the corner. This could also be the case for acute care. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u54	Thank you. Then there is Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you have to appeal to the emergency services, to yourself or to your child or to a loved one, you will often be able to do so for a long time. It's a situation where suddenly you're vulnerable, where your health is in danger and where you need urgent care. I think that we in the Netherlands can sincerely be pleased with the good care that is provided in so many places day and night by so many people who are committed to doing so. Every time I'm on a job visit, if you're there for personal reasons, you're a little less busy. I'm impressed again. First of all, I would like to say that to the staff of the emergency services in question where a stop has been placed. I know that they too are committed with heart and soul. What is it important that we also take care of those employees in the future, but also for every Dutchman who is looking for good care. We have to keep it together. That is the problem we are talking about. We know that given the number of short stops that are unfortunately increasing, the accessible care is under pressure, especially outside the Randstad. I am talking about less crowded areas, which are often extra beautiful, but that aside. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, these stops also show what the major challenges are for care. I see three. On the one hand, this is the quality of life in the region, especially in areas where there is a shrinkage or where the population lives in a little more peace and freedom. That's one way of putting it. Let's call it positive. Furthermore, the future stability of the care landscape as a whole and sufficient staff in the care sector. Mr. Chairman. I should like to ask the Minister about the quality of life in the region to consider that such a region often has to do with more declining issues: the shortage of general care services, a strongly ageing population and declining public health services. How do you even get to an emergency room if you don't have a car? Sometimes that can be a big deal. So how do you end up with good and proper help? That is why I ask the Minister how he looks at the cohesion of all these public services in thinner populated areas such as the north, in Drenthe, Friesland and Groningen, but also in Zeeland and Flevoland. How does he ensure that we keep an eye on the complete picture of the region before an essential supply threatens to disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u56	Chop-chop. Chop-chop.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u57	Chop-through, that's right. The President is always more determined, as has been shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u58	I hear Mrs Bikker talking about the region. This is very important to me, but could the region also have a somewhat more European context, precisely in terms of the organisation of the care landscape and the acute care? For example Groningen, Germany, Maastricht, Belgium, Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u59	Of course, that's what's happening. In the context of the previous debate, we spoke to a GP from Terneuzen who pointed out how well there is cooperation with the hospital in Ghent. Everyone living in a border region first of all wants good care. Whether he should drive to Aachen if he lives close to the German border or to Ghent, that doesn't matter if the care is good and you understand the caregivers. I don't see any objection there. I think it is particularly important that good care is close and that people know themselves safely. Those regional images are very important and the NZa should therefore be asked to make them more unambiguous as soon as possible. As far as I am concerned, we can then give a better answer to the question of how acute care should be organised and distributed in the country. That is a more valuable approach than the charcoal sketch that is now there and which has received much criticism. I would like to ask the Minister: will the NZa be given this task quickly and will the Chamber still have the mandate to see the formulation? My final point concerns staff. Care already has significant staff shortages, and if we continue to work in this way, one in five Dutch workers from the working population will have to work in healthcare by 2030; this will increase after that. Even now, we can see that there is considerable competition on staff. What's that supposed to be like in 10 years? This really is a joint responsibility, including from employers and the government, to work on the influx, on maintaining staff and on creative solutions, so that sometimes we can provide good care with fewer staff. I therefore have three further questions for the Minister. In the meantime, has the Minister made it clear whether the hospitals comply with the capacity body's estimates for the number of training places, and how is this monitored? What does the Minister see in more options for insurers to have a maximum percentage of temporary workers in a department? Such a thing could, for example, get a place in the purchasing conditions, so that you also invest in the permanent staff and the temporary workers are there for what they are meant for, namely filling up if there is a temporary gap. And finally, how is the Minister going to involve the control and autonomy of nursing staff in order to strengthen them, on the contrary? After all, we see very much that these are of great added value for keeping fun in the business and being able to work for a longer time. Mr. Chairman. I was visiting one of those emergency rooms last Monday. I really think that if we pull this together, we can help those involved employees most of all to continue to do their work in this passionate way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u60	Very good. Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mrs Bikker talks about maximizing the percentage of temporary workers. What does she think ofzzp'ers? Actually, it is an undesirable development that many more people say: because I have lack of autonomy and control, I start as a zzp'er. This does not improve the overall organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u62	I think it is really wonderful that Mrs van den Berg is actually doing the interruption that comes with a block I would have liked to get started on, but I was looking at your threatening look. After all, the issue of temporary agency workers actually says something about: what is the organisation like at the time? What strikes me in conversations with nurses is indeed the following. If you want to keep it up, especially with the increasing pressure in the care.corona has of course only made it more intense in the hospitals................................................................................................................................................... Because then you can schedule your shifts and then you can say "I'm not there for the next six weekends," or "I'm not on the night shift." It is precisely in this context that I believe that this unity is important, but that it also requires something from employers. It must have added value if you have a permanent contract with them. Of course, an employer, a hospital director, can also play a real role in this. Because the more you allow this, the sourder the grapes are for the regular staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u63	We have been calling for much more attention to be paid to employership in health care for a longer time. I have even made a few cynical remarks about this in the October labour market debate, but that aside. Do I understand why Mrs Bikker, when she refers to the percentage of temporary workers, actually means the percentage of flexible work? So does that include the percentage ofzzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u64	Above all, I ask the Minister to take a look at what this means. From me it may be broken down and may be under one heading, but I especially like to see what it means by now. I also want the discussion with employers on what can happen in this area. But since I have been seeing this development for a long time, looking at it with care and seeing the rise, I honestly also think that this is something that should be discussed with health insurers. How do you organise your purchase? Because I think it also says a lot about the quality of the hospital if it succeeds in having permanent staff, rather than flexible staff. That seems like a big win to me. So I'd like to hear the Minister's reaction to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij from the JA group21. She is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. She's also our appetizer, because after that, I'm gonna suspend for lunch. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This contribution is also made on behalf of Caroline van der Plas, who is unable to attend today. I would also like to wish her well from here on. Last week and earlier today, we debated the concentration of pediatric heart surgery. You can approach that in a purely technical way. Indeed, the arguments for the concentration decision are highly medically based. This can be explained by the professional angle. But the social uproar shows that there is something else involved, something that is quickly overlooked in The Hague. That is genuine attention to what lives among the population. In this debate on the closure of emergency posts in Drenthe and Groningen, I would therefore point out: take this into account. After all, policy which, with a technocratic approach, overwhelms feelings leads to alienation. What evokes many emotions is the feeling that politics is mainly looking at the Randstad, at densely populated areas. The feeling is that the countryside has been written off, as a sad, uneconomic region where the population is leaving. As an area where the facilities disappear. That is also the emotion about the situation in emergency services. There is a high risk that we will focus heavily on relativisations, on the technical approach, and that we will get an explanation from the Minister about a national shortage of specialised care personnel, occasional time-outs that do not really threaten acute care and process monitoring. I call on the Minister to also respond to the feeling that services are under particular pressure in rural areas. What message does this cabinet have to the region when it comes to emergency care? Of course, we are aware that the capacity problem of emergency services extends beyond rural areas, but sticking to the 45-minute standard is becoming a bigger challenge as areas are thinner populated. An analysis by Pointer Radio shows that 10% of the population currently lives farther from an E.R. post than ten years ago. Fewer and fewer emergency rooms are well prepared for the peak load at times when the number of patients in the emergency room is highest. This leads to long waiting times, withdrawal stops and ambulances that have to move to another hospital. Does the Minister consider that this is a negligible problem, or does the situation now call for intervention? There is no national record of the number of closures of the emergency services. Can the Minister provide the Chamber with an overview of the number of closures and locations that affect the country as a whole in the preparation of plans to make acute care future-proof? Care professionals stand their backs against the wall. The time-out I have just referred to also means that care personnel are no longer standing their backs against the wall, but have now fallen out. If the link of the ER posts in the care chain weakens, the chain of care as a whole is in danger. Then the chain as a whole is threatened. In Tuesday's letter to the Chamber, the Minister acknowledges that the combination of increasing demand for care and scarcity in the labour market makes it necessary to organise care more intelligently, including acute care. JA21 looks forward to the information the Minister sends to the Chamber before the summer recess on these plans. Will the Minister give an undertaking that the quality of life in rural areas and the preservation of facilities in areas designated as "the province" or "the region" are an explicit part of these plans? How will the Minister take this Chamber with him in shaping the plans for future-proof acute care? I mean not only to be informed in a timely and complete manner, but also to be able to provide input. On 28 October 2021, with the support of the entire opposition, my group tabled a motion calling on the cabinet to urgently identify and resolve bottlenecks in order to restore continuity and the rapid, easily accessible accessibility of this concern throughout the country. The coalition voted this motion out. Nevertheless, after the time-out of the last four months, I make a similar call, namely to make the bottlenecks analysis part of the plans that the Minister is preparing for acute care. There is no doubt that the Minister, who is also committed to keeping emergency aid up to date, will be able to agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u67	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u68	I fully share the importance of the region with Mrs Pouw-Verweij and, in my view, with Mrs Van der Plas, who is watching. Certainly our basic care and acute care must also be in order. But I heard you say that 10% of the Dutch live further than 30 minutes from an emergency station. In my view, this is about the standards of the driving times of that ambulance, and it is independent of whether someone is driving a car and how much time it takes to get to the GP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u69	What I said was that research shows that 10% of the population now lives farther from an E.R. post than 10 years ago. There is therefore an increase of 10%. I didn't mention that 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u70	Then I have one short follow-up question, because we continue to meet the standard, even if people have moved further away, more rural, detached. So is that a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u71	Yeah, I think so. I think we shouldn't just look at the 45-minute standard. I think we are talking here about a broader problem that is actually also broader than just the emergency services we are talking about. I am now very focused on the region, because I believe that this aspect of the discussion is under-exposed, but I think that we have a problem across the whole chain across the Netherlands. You're saying it's not true that there are time-outs in the UMCG. In almost all major hospitals we often see that even when the emergency services are closed, there are still a lot of tense calls to surrounding hospitals to make sure that they stay so. By simply looking at the driving time and whether it is sufficient, we are not doing enough justice to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u72	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u73	Excuse me, but the debate is now about the acute care and driving times and the standard we have agreed on. What you're naming before we get all kinds of worries mixed up are basic facilities in the neighborhood where someone lives. I fully agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u74	Then I'm glad we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u75	Everybody happy! Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u76	I think it is Mrs Pouw's last debate before she takes leave. It's not for that reason, but I wanted to say that I like the argument. It is indeed important to see how people experience care, as well as the emergency care that disappears in the region. If you're talking about driving time, that doesn't just have to be ambulance times, but also that you're going somewhere by car.Of course, it matters if you have a car, for example. Let's take the case Hoogeveen. We know this is a poor town where a lot of people don't have cars. You can say "you can go to Assen or Meppel," but if you don't have a car, people experience it as very far away and problematic. Does Mrs Pouw-Verweij agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u77	I fully agree with Mrs Ellemeet. I think it is an extra big problem in these areas, because there is also less cover for this than we are used to in The Hague or the Randstad. You're gonna have to take that into account. So that is a concern that we absolutely share.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u78	Very good. So far. Thank you very much and good luck on your leave. I'm gonna suspend until quarter to one for lunch and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u79	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have divided the answers in advance into a number of cubes, apart from the introduction. One block is specifically about the North Netherlands. Then I have a block on the future of acute care and on the labour market. I want to start with Northern Netherlands and the situation there. On Friday 10 September last year, four of the nine hospitals in the North Netherlands, Groningen, Friesland and Drenthe announced a time-out for an hour and a half, between 5.30 p.m. and 7 p.m. One of those hospitals indicates that it was due to insufficient treatment capacity. The other three reported a peak in the supply of patients, also related to the care gravity of the patients they were currently in emergency care. A stop or time-out doesn't mean that such an emergency service is completely closed. It is an agreement made among ourselves in the region to avoid overload. That was really different in the distant past. In principle, every emergency service was always open to every patient, but that meant that there were also situations where an emergency service was already full and yet an offer of patients continued to come. It often took a long time before a patient could actually be taken out of an ambulance in diagnostics and treatment. At that time, the ambulance was withdrawn from the vehicle fleet and the emergency service was further overloaded. A time-out is a signal to the ambulance service that it is temporarily very busy on the department in question and therefore it may be wise to drive to another hospital, if the category and nature of the patient's illness make this possible. There are very specific regional agreements between hospitals, the ambulance service and so on, not only in the north of the Netherlands but everywhere. That's also being monitored. It is advised that these time-outs are always as short as possible. It shall be ensured that hospital emergency care remains open at all times to genuine acute care and if the hospital has a unique function, such as the function of trauma centre or intervention centre for patients with acute heart attack and so on. In the north of the Netherlands, agreements are made in different ways within the cooperation in the acute care region and work is being done to ensure access to acute care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u81	The Minister's letter was rather unclear. He wrote that the number of recording stops or time-outs had remained the same or had become a little less. But we know there was a doubling between 2015 and 2018. Can the Minister tell us how many of these recording stops or time-outs have been in the Netherlands in the past year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u82	I can't report that for the past year. The Dutch Healthcare Authority is coming up with data soon, but I don't know now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u83	But how does the Minister know that it has remained the same or has become a little less? Can we still get that information during this debate? When you write in your letter that it's stayed the same or a little less, you know how many recording stops there were? We can do that before 2020. I want us to get a picture of how often such a recording stop or time-out happens in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u84	ROAZ in the Netherlands indicates that the number and duration of stops have decreased during their monitoring period, from September to December of the previous year. This decline is undoubtedly also due to the development of the covid pandemic during that period, but I do not know what the exact number is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u85	In addition to what Mrs Agema is asking: I do not just want to hear the macro number. Well, I don't necessarily have to today, but I want to get it. I also asked in 2019 if I could get the numbers per hospital per day. A cumulative figure can only be created because you have built something up with decentralised numbers, so I would also like to see the decentralised numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u86	We can ask hospitals to provide data on a lot of things. First of all, I would like to point out that in acute healthcare regions, ROAZ regions, there are agreements on the conditions under which, for how long and for which patients there may be stops, time-outs. I'm asking the IGJ to monitor and signal when situations that can't actually arise. I would like to return to what Mrs van den Berg said in the debate. The theorem was: every time-out is one too many. I strongly disagree with Mrs van den Berg on this point, because time-outs are intended to keep the accessibility and continuity of care as much as possible. So it is certainly not the case that the more time-outs there are the better the care is, on the contrary, but it is not the case that every time-out is too much. Time-outs are the consequences of good regional agreements. I could ask a hospital how many times they're in a time-out, but that's really something about the region itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u87	I am very sorry to have to spend three interruptions on the number of recording stops that have been made. It can't be that the minister here says he doesn't know! We know there were 2,800 in 2015 and 5,600 in 2018. I just want to hear from the Minister during the debate how many there are now. If the information was available in 2015 and 2018, then the Minister should also be able to bring it up in this debate, especially if he says it has remained the same or has become less. So I would like to receive a commitment from the Minister that during the debate we will just hear how many recording stops, time-outs, have been there in 2021. Otherwise, we can't just argue with each other in a normal way, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u88	As indicated above, I cannot supply those numbers, for reasons I have just mentioned. I have no signs that the number of time-out procedures in individual regions has led to dangerous situations. I would like to reiterate that time-out procedures have been set up by regions in order to ensure access to care. I'm going to go back to the situation in the North Netherlands. This region has started a trial with the function of a dispatcher director who, if necessary, helps the ambulance crew to find a place for a patient in an appropriate emergency room as soon as possible. Since 2018, the first region in the Netherlands to do so has been called the National Platform for Healthcare Capacity, LPZ. This is used as a tool to spread the pressure on acute care, so that each patient gets to a place where he or she can be helped as soon as possible. This means that an emergency lights are used 24 hours a day to show the emergency rooms of the nine hospitals in the north of the Netherlands how busy it is at that time. The hospitals can see that from each other in real time. This allows us to spread patients early and prevent as much as possible multiple stops at the same time and, for example, one hospital and one emergency room. This could lead to situations that could be dangerous even for individual patients. Pilots will also be launched in the North of the Netherlands this month to give general practitioners insight into that LPZ, so that they can also help spread the emergency flow both in terms of time and location. In that respect, the Acute North-East Care Region can be praised. Something has just passed on this. Mrs Ellemeet spoke about the Zorgtable Drenthe et cetera. They show that they are always at the forefront of innovation and are therefore often a model region for other regions. That LPZ is a system that can be used by all hospitals for practical control and planning on capacity. It gives real-time insight when there are stops and also where stops threaten. Ambulance services can anticipate that. Nine of the 11 acute care regions are currently working with that LPZ. A tenth region intends to implement this. It is very much in line with the increased commitment to care coordination and has also proven its role in the covid pandemic. That brings me to the question. Mrs Ellemeet asked: the closure of the emergency services in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal has a major impact on the care landscape in that region. Can the Minister, together with the Healthcare Table and citizens, once discuss the acute care landscape? My department is closely involved in the Healthcare Table in Drenthe and regularly slides to it. It also involves care interests on behalf of the inhabitants of the region. I would like to say that I too would like to talk to them to hear their experiences but also to hear what the challenges are and how we can possibly contribute to improving them further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u89	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I think that's very much appreciated. I also asked to see if we could introduce this good example in other places, for example in Groningen. Would the Minister like to take that with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u90	Sure. I'd like that very much. The good news is that this form of care in the Acute Northeast Care Region and the region of Drenthe et cetera is already seen as an example in many places. Meanwhile, similar care tables have already been created in other places. I refer, for example, to Zeeland, South Limburg and the South Holland islands. I hope that this example will be followed up further. Then Mrs Ellemeet asked why the ERs in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal do not receive an availability contribution. As I mentioned, there is no longer an emergency service in Hoogeveen and Stadskanaal, but an emergency service. The ERs receive an availability contribution if it is sensitive to the 45 minute standard and there are insufficient revenues from the provision of care. That is not the case in this situation. Mrs Van den Berg asked why the data system in the North cannot be applied everywhere. I already mentioned that the National Platform Healthcare Coordination has been used in the North since 2018. They were the first region to do this. The system is now much wider. It is my aim that this is simply widely used in the Netherlands, also for real-time monitoring of the hustle and bustle in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u91	The Minister writes in a letter that he wants to see how we can best organise acute care. Does he not think that it should not be up to the field itself to use such systems, but that it is simply necessary for everyone to use them, also in order to have sufficient information and to be able to make the right decisions? This has an effect on a lot of people, who are all worried and wonder: what is acute care when my child falls down the stairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u92	I absolutely share that with regard to this national platform. That is why I am pleased that nine of the eleven regions already have that, as has already been pointed out, and that one tenth of them intend to implement it. I will also certainly ask what the hordes in the 11th region are to follow that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u93	I have a question about the availability contribution. I understood the Minister's answer, but my question is more about the following. He states: if necessary in connection with driving times, there is an availability contribution. Is the Minister prepared to consider, in his view, whether it would be desirable, by definition, to grant that availability contribution to emergency services? In fact, we know that the Minister knows from previous positions too, and we know that emergency aid for hospitals is a very important part of keeping the income high enough. Would he therefore consider whether it would be wise, by definition, to grant an availability contribution to ER posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u94	I am very willing to do that. Mrs Paulusma asked: in the North there is good cooperation; what lessons can we draw from this cooperation? I have just indicated that I fully share the view that good cooperation is taking place in the North. That applies to such a care table, but that also applied, for example, to the very complex and careful decision to make such an emergency station in Hoogeveen. I look at Mrs Ellemeet............................................................................................................................................................................ Let me mention that, too. That route has gone very carefully, I say when I look back on it now. This has been done with citizens, with municipalities, with hospitals, with ambulance services and with general practitioners, not from the idea of "we have an acute problem," but from the idea of "we have to do something to keep the accessibility up; what then?" I see now, also in contacts with representatives from that region, that not only did they take a step at the time, but that it is now also under review two or three years later. For example, one comes back to the question: what exactly is this about and what is the impact on the closing times of such an emergency station in Hoogeveen or the availability of an emergency room in Meppel? So there will be evaluations again. I think that this is happening very carefully and that we and other regions are happy to take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u95	I hear the minister say he likes to talk. You are very welcome in the North, I say myself. I spoke with the concern of the North, at least the representation. They also indicated that they do a great deal in cooperation with all the different institutions, including with regard to training. Sometimes that is not entirely in sync with the Capacity Body or with what is written on paper. I wonder if you recognize that and if there is some room for discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u96	Yeah, I recognize that. Moreover, earlier this morning we had a debate on concentrations of interventions for children with congenital heart defects. One of the arguments put forward by the same region is that one actually has more capacity to train than others. That's something I like to look at, not specifically in pediatric heart surgery, but much wider. Because we need people. I also know that we have just talked about emergency doctors and there are broader issues in training medical specialists, in relation to specific, more rural regions. That, too, is a subject that I would like to look at with the parties concerned. In this case, these are the Federation of Medical Specialists, the Dutch Association of Hospitals and the Federation of UMCs. Because we just know that one of the reasons why people at some point choose a particular place to keep working is familiar with the region, with the hospital and the environment, because you've done part of your education there. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the subject of the future of acute care. At the moment, between one in six and one in seven people work in care. That rate has risen rapidly in recent years. If we were to continue at that same rate of growth, in 2040, in 18 years' time, one in four people would work in care. This is difficult to achieve from a broad social perspective. This also means that we really need to look at how we ensure adequate availability and sufficient staff for acute care. Because the demand, specifically in the debate right now, for acute care will continue to rise, even if it was simply due to an ageing population. It simply means that it is necessary, of course, to focus on maximum training, but also to organise acute care in such a way that everyone in the Netherlands has access and maintains high-quality acute care. Those were already bottlenecks. The covid pandemic has brought that to light again. So if you take all that together, then we can only see that we need to adjust the acute care to prepare it for the future. I will work on this cabinet period on the basis of a number of principles, such as that acute care really requires cooperation in the chain to ensure that patients are quickly helped in the right place, that acute care should be of good quality and that there should be no inequality for patients wherever they live in the Netherlands. Some regions have already been mentioned. We can add all kinds of other regions to it. It is really a challenge for patients with acute illness in some regions to receive the same care as when they live here, for example, in the middle of The Hague. Because of the shortage of staff, there should also be cooperation, for example when hospitals agree among themselves under which conditions an ER can announce a time-out in a region and how long that may take. I have already mentioned some of those conditions. Data form the basis for the quality and organisation of acute care, both the exchange of medical data from a patient and steering information, for example on capacity. Care coordination is also needed. Examples have already been mentioned. I would also like to give an example of the initiatives in different regions for regional coordination centres. They can't be for the acute 112, but they can provide many other forms of care to get patients directly to a place where they are most in place and where they can be helped most quickly. It can have all kinds of different shapes. That could be a visit to an ER. This can also be the visit of a general practitioner, a district nurse or an oncology nurse. It may also be a reference to a general practitioner's post or to a pharmacy for a prescription. There are many different options. These pilots are currently running in different regions. Care coordination is needed. Sharing and differentiation of the supply of acute care contribute to quality and accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u97	I didn't see any evidence of that. It's just said and repeated all the time. We see that the closure of emergency services increases the workload on other posts and that the number of burn-outs among employees increases. We're seeing an increase in outflow. We all see that, but the claim that it all improves is not substantiated. Can the Minister try that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u98	Of course I can try. Acute care has also changed considerably over the last longer period. This means that, where every patient used to be in his or her place in every ER, there is a differentiation for many conditions nowadays. Certain hospitals can provide specific care and others can't. This means, for example, that a patient with chest pain, which is evident in the ambulance that there is an acute heart attack, must be transported directly to a hospital where a heart catheterization centre is present and not first to another ER. This helps to ensure that the total pressure in the chain is as limited as possible and that the patient is helped as quickly as possible where he or she belongs, in this case in the heart catheterization chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u99	On paper that sounds very nice, but in practice it doesn't work that way. I remember when my father, when I was staying with him to take care of him, woke up with terrible back pain. We called 911 right away. Then we got a triagist on the phone. That lady didn't think it was necessary for an ambulance to be sent. We had to take my father, with severe pain in his back, to the county hospital ourselves. That's where he was scanned. Then it turned out that he had an aneurysm in his belly. Then he was put back in an ambulance and brought to a specialized hospital. So I don't have much against specialization, but we can see that the practice is just much more uncomfortable than in this kind of theoretical cases on paper. That triagist couldn't have known that at all. He had to do with a gentleman with severe back pain and couldn't have sent him to that highly specialized hospital at once. I asked the minister about evidence as to why reducing emergency services is a good thing. What we have seen so far is more outflow, more stress among employees and a higher workload. I would like to hear from the Minister where his evidence is that it is better to reduce or halve the number of emergency services and why he thinks that is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u100	The number and thus also the reduction or increase of the number of emergency services are not an end in itself. The example mentioned by Mrs Agema shows that an individual patient with a specific condition can in some cases be helped on every ER in the Netherlands, whether there are 80, 70, 90 or some other number. The example given earlier by Mrs Ellemeet of a child with a hockey ball, unless there is a specific complication, is an example that can in principle be heard on every ER. The example mentioned by Mrs Agema is an excellent example in which a patient in a life-threatening situation, acute back pain in the event of a threatening or perhaps already actual rupture in the abdominal artery, an aneurysm, should arrive as soon as possible in a place where 24/7 a vascular surgeon, a vascular surgery team and so on and should go there immediately. This is without prejudice to what exactly happened to the triage in this case. A direct transport to a center where help can be provided.This is not in every hospital in the Netherlands.In this case, it is in the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u101	So that was not my whole question or argument. The triagist of course could not know that and so the triagist decided that we should just take my father by car to the regional hospital. It was only there that this came out of the scan. That whole story about concentration can still be understood for certain diseases, but you can't estimate that in advance. In advance, everyone actually goes to their own local hospital, to their own emergency services, preferably in the neighborhood. The movement of fewer and fewer emergency services is killing people. They're all done with that. That's especially true when you get a hockey ball to the head, for example. My daughter fell in the schoolyard a few months ago. At a time like this, you have to go all over The Hague. You have to go all over The Hague! You should call the GP. Then you have to go to the doctor's office and before you know it, you'll end up in the middle of the night in the hospital and get a scan done. Isn't all this concentration driving people crazy? What people want is just an emergency station in the neighborhood that's open and where employees who don't need to get overexcited, don't get burned-out and don't quit their jobs at all. How can I get the Minister to understand that he should not continue with the line of less and less emergency aid posts, especially since VVD, CDA and D66 have not confirmed here that they support the reduction in the number of emergency aid posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u102	There are a number of assumptions in Mrs Agema's speech. The first is that the line of the number of ERs is an end in itself, with a number. I don't hear a number, but it's meant to be a number. That is absolutely not the case. I also say that the number of ERs is not an end in itself. The point is that every patient is given high-quality care that has been applied as much as possible to the problem a patient faces. It is clear that this includes good triage. I will not go into the casusism of an older gentleman who suddenly has severe back pain. If you have to make a differential diagnosis for that, then a leaking aneurysm is about at the top. I see Mrs Pouw-Verweij snooping too. If you want to avoid anything in that respect, you say: right to a center where vascular surgery is!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u103	Finally. It is this minister, Ernst Kuipers, who said: fewer ERs make acute care better? I've asked twice for evidence. I didn't hear that. The minister who stands here, on the front page of his letter, brings in the charcoal sketch. The aim of these charcoal sketches is to halve the number of emergency rooms. I tried with the VVD, with the CDA, with D66 and with this minister; I like to hear the truth. Are you planning to halve the number of emergency rooms, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u104	As already indicated, any change in the number of emergency services is not an end in itself. The continuity and guarantee of high-quality care are goals. Perhaps it is relevant in that context to mention that a quality framework for emergency care was introduced some time ago. Mrs. Agema was involved. At that time, the Dutch hospitals initially raised long-term objections to the requirement that at least one doctor with at least one year's work experience should be present in an emergency care facility in the Netherlands at all times. Many emergency services saw a problem in getting that done. And then we're talking about right now, 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u105	It seems to me that in the end, of course, it is all political considerations to finance these forms of care or not. The Minister very much assumes that, as Mrs Agema rightly says, a reduced number of emergency services would improve care. I don't know what he's basing that on. I also don't understand how he gets the idea that it would be more interesting or better for healthcare professionals if there were fewer emergency services. What's happening, isn't it? What do doctors say to us? They say, "I'm not going to work in a local hospital as an ER because I'm not sure that hospital or this department will still exist in five years' time." That's why they're not coming. Nurses also think it's important to have security. They think it's important to know: if I'm going to work here, then I can stay for a while, I work in a close team, I'm not being sent from hot to re-sent and I can also work with a normal workload, which is not the case now. My point is that this minister is working hard to create his own problems. The closure of auxiliary posts increases the pressure on other posts. And in the end, by pushing caregivers, more and more of them are pulling off. Does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u106	Mr Hijink makes two assumptions that I would like to distance myself from. The first is that closure of ERs has a financial reason. He didn't hear me say that, and I won't say that. The second is that I assume that closure or reduction of the number of ERs makes it less interesting or more interesting for staff. I didn't talk about that either. What I have been talking about is that patients in the Netherlands should now and also in the coming years, when they have an emergency problem, be able to go to high-quality care, with as little waiting time as possible. I have also indicated that, in the current setting, with the development of the care field now, this allows some patient groups to do so in many places. Sorry, Mrs Ellemeet, we're sticking to the hockey ball. However, for some categories of patients, it is important that they arrive as soon as possible at an emergency service with a centre where they can be helped with their specific problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u107	I do not think that the issue of specialisation is at all under discussion. Everyone understands that there are trauma centers where people with serious problems, severe traumas, should be able to go. That point is not at all under discussion here. The question is whether people, even if they live in Groningen, Drenthe, Achterhoek, Limburg or Zeeland, are still entitled to similar emergency care as those who need it very much. That is the point that is under discussion here. The feeling of people is also reality is that it is becoming less and less. If you live in the Randstad, in Amsterdam, The Hague, Utrecht, it's still good. But the farther away you get, the less accessible the care, the emergency care, becomes. Those are facts that people have to deal with and which they are very worried about. I think the Minister is too quick to get over that when he says it's about specialization. No, it's not about specialization. It's just that in case of emergency, whether it's a hockey ball against your head, a fall from the stairs or whatever, you can trust that the ambulance will be there in time and that you'll be helped in time at the hospital near you, instead of being dragged from hot to hot. We have also seen these examples: people who eventually died because they couldn't go anywhere. Those examples are there. The SP just doesn't want to go through that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mr Hijink and I can totally agree that we really need to communicate very well about which care can and should be organized as locally as possible, at a general practitioner's office or at an emergency station, such as the one in Hoogeveen we were talking about, and for what care people in a rural region are best off if they drive directly past that local emergency station to a centre that is a little further away. In addition, you don't drive to a hospital directly nearby, but to a center where you can be helped as in a large city.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u109	Finally. The Minister revolves around the question. My point isn't about anyone... I've been there myself when I walked with the ambulance here in The Hague. It was exactly the same story, a ruptured artery in the abdomen. We didn't know that either, so we took the one to the nearest hospital. I don't think it's about going straight to the right place. It's about whether the base is in order. Can those people who fell down the stairs, or had an accident, and need emergency care, be right around? That's the point. If you lower the number of emergency services by more than twenty in ten years, you're not getting the base straight. Then you're tearing down the base. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u110	I do not agree with Mr Hijink. If you ask if people can go to a post where they need help, including in a rural region, then the answer is yes. But then there's a lot of work to be done. I'm just referring to what you said, that someone falls down the stairs. I don't remember which one of you mentioned it earlier. I believe it was Mrs Paulusma, who mentioned older women, old women and serious injuries. The trauma centres in the Netherlands now exist for more than twenty years. At the same time, this was the basis for the acute care regions. They have existed for more than 20 years, since 1998. We're so much further, but still it's so that... In her introduction, Mrs. Agema referred to a patient in the guardrail. These are typical patients who should be able to go directly to a trauma center. We have ten of them in the Netherlands. Although we are more than 20 years away, one in three patients of this type still does not end up in a trauma center, while with sufficient evidence, such as data from abroad and so on, we know that your chances of full recovery are much greater, and the risk of death is significantly smaller, if you come directly to a trauma center with this type of injury.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u111	Mrs. Pouw. No, Mrs. Agema first, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u112	Only for the Acts. I didn't mention trauma and someone who ended up in the guardrail. I just talked about an ambulance that had to stop on the escape lane because there was no place in the area because of patient stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u113	That's exactly the reason to agree on these kinds of time-outs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u114	In fact, I would like to ask the Minister the same question as I asked Mrs Paulusma. I feel like there's a couple of things going on right now. My group is not necessarily opposed to the concentration of care. In particular, if it benefits specialist care, we can support it. If that is borne by the profession itself and there are medical reasons for it, we can absolutely talk about it. However, I personally have the impression that there is being driven mainly from scarcity, from the idea that there are deficits and that it is going to cost a lot of money to solve them. That money is not there, because care costs are already falling apart, so we have to work with the scarcity we have. It's a very essential difference for me. Do we say: we want the best quality care, and that is why we want to concentrate more? Or do we concentrate more because the fewer ERs or trauma centers you have open, the less it costs? The motives are then very different, although eventually you can come up with the same. But I think the process there is very different, and is very relevant to what the implementation is going to be like. So I would very much like to know from the Minister how that choice is driven.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u115	Clear, thanks for making it so explicit. For me, it's about quality, not cost. This is also in line with my reply to Mrs Ellemeet's question just now on availability contributions and emergency posts. For me, it's really about quality and not costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u116	Mrs. Agema was just asking about that. The Minister said that fewer E.R. posts would benefit the care. Let us assume that research shows that this is not the case and that it does indeed benefit quality in order to keep regional coverage well and to keep more emergency posts alive. So the Minister says: fine, then we shouldn't do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u117	Absolutely. When we say quality comes first, it's leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u118	The Minister says: how can we best organise this with each other? I have here the first pages of the WRR report on sustainable care. The starting point is to set minimum standards for quality and accessibility throughout healthcare, including in less prominent sectors and for less visible patients. Is the Minister prepared to do so? If we do it for quality and accessibility, we can make sure that there is no difference between people in Groningen, Goes, Hoorn and Maastricht.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u119	The answer is yes, I'm willing to do that. Let us say very clearly to each other: it does not mean that we put a heart catheterization center and a brain catheterization center and a trauma center and so on in every place in the Netherlands within a limited travel distance. Because there is a good chance that this will lead to a deterioration in quality. This means that we must also ensure that a patient in Domburg, to call one place at a long driving distance, if, for example, he gets signs of a stroke, is as soon as possible in a place where the scan of the head can be made, and that brain catheterization can also take place within hours, as it says before, if necessary, which is a quality parameter with good scientific support. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u120	I understand that you cannot have such a highly specialised centre for high-complex acute care in every region, but here again is the CDA's remark that concentration is not centralising. Is the Minister going to take that into account and not say: I have three centres, and they all happen to be in the Randstad? I have sometimes told people in the Randstad that the distance from Groningen to Amsterdam in kilometres is really no less than the distance from Amsterdam to Groningen, even though some people think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u121	The fact that we are talking about acute care alone indicates that centralisation is not an option in itself, but concentrating certain forms of care within a region is perhaps an option in some cases. I have actually answered part of this, but this brings me to Mrs Pouw's question on the message from the cabinet to regions on emergency aid. She asked me if I'm gonna take the feeling that facilities are disappearing. Yes, I say explicitly; that has just been appointed. It is about quality of care and also about accessibility of care. I understand that sense of region very well, and I absolutely must take it with me. Mrs Agema said: provide more specialists; remove the acute care chain from the market and make acute care a non-economic service of general interest. I'll be back with you for the summer with a letter about plans for future-proof care. We also have a further debate on this subject on 11 April following an initiative paper by Mrs Agema. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hijink asked: why does the Minister say that the quality is not in order at all emergency posts? I have already said something about the quality framework and numbers, and also about the standard, where it was a real struggle for many parties to ensure that there is always at least one doctor present in an ER with one year of clinical experience. If I may add one other requirement: there has also been a wide-ranging discussion on the standard in the same quality framework for emergency services that a doctor or nurse with geriatric expertise, i.e. expertise in the field of old age medicine, should be available on the phone at any time, 24/7, within 30 minutes. That was already a quality standard that hospitals objected to because they found it difficult to comply with. I think that, if I call it that here, we all wonder whether this, where we are living in 2022, is really such a difficult standard, since it is not even necessary to be on the spot but only to be on the phone. Then Mrs Van den Berg asked: how does the Minister ensure that the implementation of the law that says that citizens should be involved in closure is properly implemented? When offering acute care, the AMvB Acute care should be followed to ensure the availability and accessibility of acute care and preparation as well as possible. I have had a flowchart made for this purpose and distributed it to clarify what a healthcare provider should do and the IGJ is the enforcement supervisor. Mrs Van den Berg asked how it was checked and monitored that the driving times were right and the ER and the HAP were nearby. The RIVM analyses accessibility and accessibility of emergency care in the Netherlands. They are about ambulance care, general practitioners, ERs, acute midwifery care and also about other hospital departments providing acute care. When offering acute care or threatening closure is closed, the AMvB Acute care should be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u122	The fact that it has to does not always mean that it is happening, but I understand from the Minister that the inspection should be on top of that. What matters to me is that there are regular changes to acute care. I mentioned the example of the GP in Oldenzaal and Venray; Woerden has been a problem for years. At that time, a calculation is made which then meets all the standards or field standards that exist. My question to the Minister is to what extent it is further monitored. There may also be changes in traffic and organisation. As for Woerden, for example, I heard that they have to go to the doctor's office at St. Antonius, where there are very long waiting times. So, in total, that's going to be under tension. If a decision has been taken somewhere, how will it be monitored that things will continue to be good?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u123	This is done first of all from the care parties themselves in the region. I mentioned the example of the changes that have taken place in Drenthe in relation to the Healthcare Table and the careful process, with an evaluation being carried out after a number of years. The same applies to these points. Both the NZa and the IGJ are looking forward to that. Mrs van den Berg also asked if I am aware that in some regions a mathematical system is being used to optimize the use of ambulances. Yeah, I'm familiar with that. Centralists at all RAVs ensure the best use of ambulances through dynamic ambulance management. Mathematical systems can support this and the RAVs are also joining forces in that dynamic ambulance management and the search for support systems. They don't need any further guidance or guidance from me for that. Then Mrs Van den Hil asked if I can confirm that someone in a life-threatening situation can go to an ER anywhere in the Netherlands, even in a time-out. Yeah, I can confirm that. I also mentioned just now that regions also have agreements on categories of patients for which time-outs do not apply. We have already mentioned a number of examples. So the ER is always open for that. By the way, the time-outs can also help to differentiate so that if you run into an ER against your borders and indicate a time-out with the region, you still have time for that very specific patient. Mrs Van den Hil also asked about the LPZ, display the possible time-out and, if necessary, spread patients. How do we ensure that good initiatives are followed widely? I have already mentioned something about the further roll-out of that LPZ, including the agreements made on it by region and the way in which it is monitored. I would like to return to that in a future letter on acute care later. Mrs Van den Hil further asked about the quality registration NEED. A number of hospitals have joined up. In October last year, a content governance committee and a data governance committee started quality registrations. There quality registrations are being tested and standardisation is being considered, for example in the field of ICT. So that's specific to the attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u124	I'm glad that's what they're looking at. But what I find so special about NEED is of course that it was set up by healthcare professionals themselves. Of course, we see a lot of certifications and registrations coming from above. Just in this case, I like it so much that it comes from the bottom and that professionals... you'll be able to feel that. So I'm asking for specific attention that this professional is also involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u125	Yes, thank you. We'd be happy to. What I like about this combination is that it is a combination of input from the profession, from its own expertise, but also a form of a touch on it. We have also seen very often in the past that quality registrations that come only from the content sometimes lead to excess registration burden in practice, because the professionals say in their involvement: but then I also find it interesting to know, that is to know, et cetera. This sometimes leads to a lot of additional registration in the introduction, where the field is already overloaded with registrations. Ms. Paulusma asked about smarter use of care and watching remotely. Indeed, by making smart use of digital care, a healthcare professional on the ER can save more time and reduce the workload. This already applies to a multitude of patients with chronic conditions: chronic heart failure, COPD. We have also seen it with covid patients, which is not a chronic disease but also occurs in large numbers. This helps to reduce pressure on ERs and pressure in the acute care chain. It is often extremely attractive for patients from a quality perspective and is therefore really one of the ways we need to expand further in the future. It can also significantly reduce the number of re-raptures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u126	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. I have also understood from various parties involved that innovation resources are often of these temporary resources and that we are moving on to the next. Now, I am not asking for extra money here, but could the Minister look at the multitude of what we are doing and whatever we are financing, whether a more stable part can be made available for those innovations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u127	Yeah, I can do that. This includes a good analysis and test, but those things that really work, in this case for example from the perspective of reducing pressure on acute care and improving quality, are relevant for wider application. If I stick to the one example I just mentioned about home monitoring of covid patients, we talked about it earlier in corona debates too, and we talked about a number of patients and a number of regions where this happened first, and about other regions that really needed to be encouraged much wider after that to take over. Mrs Pouw asked if the Minister could agree to keep the number of ERs up to date. That's consistent with the discussion we just had. The starting point is acute care of good quality. The further development of acute care follows later, but the number of ERs is absolutely not an end in itself, as we have just discussed. I think that we have already addressed Mrs Pouw's question about the region and the involvement of feelings. Mrs Pouw also asked whether the Minister considered that the problem of the ER stops was negligible or that it called for intervention. I don't think, without knowing the exact number of 2021, it's negligible. It is something that must be monitored and agreed on in each region. But I don't see it either that every time-out is one too many. I think the time-outs can work as a valve to divide the pressure into acute care. In this respect, the example that led this debate to begin is a typical example. Mrs Pouw knows that, too. A Friday at the end of the afternoon is a typical moment in acute care. The GP decides on very good grounds that he still sends in a number of patients because he isn't very good at it on the weekends. In addition, there are some people who report themselves for acute care because they think they can't get into it for the weekend. I only saw the date at first. I immediately asked: oh, that was a Friday night, wasn't it? The answer was yes, that was a Friday night. So I don't think the time-outs are negligible. You have to try to keep it as limited as possible with the regions, but it is not the case that every time-out is too much. It is a valve that helps the regions to maintain acute care as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u128	I think we all recognize those Friday afternoon moments. For example, there are weekends, especially now that the catering industry is opening up again, also other times when we know it's more crowded. I noticed, also during the work visits, that if one emergency service station is orange or direction red, that is actually the case with all of them. That's where I care. A time-out can also be a good signal, so that someone else gets good care. I'll ask the Minister how he keeps an eye on people getting good care at the peak moments. How does he keep an eye on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u129	That's a good point. A number of things are important to mention. The first is that we are now discussing the acute care regions as if they were islands. Of course they're not. They all have specific borders with the adjacent regions. That's how they switch between E.R.s. It's not just in its own region. An ER in Meppel or Zuidwest-Drenthe also switches with the acute care region a little further and so it applies to all. The second is that there are always agreements in the regions about how many valves can be open at the same time and when you scale up a level and are willing to accept the next patient. You then have to striate something in the urgency and accept that there are more patients who go beyond the normal, accepted waiting times. Because you're sad yourself, saying, "This patient should go first. I tell the others in the waiting room that unfortunately they have to wait longer." That's what's happening. There are also mutual agreements on this. This is done not only in terms of the LPZ, but also in the direct one-to-one contacts between the ER doctors and in some cases between the drivers. So there is a lot of interaction in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u130	As a mother, I am also very understanding if I have to wait a while with the gauze that has to be put on the head a little more complicated when someone else comes in for serious acute help. I think everyone in the Netherlands has that. My question is one step further. It is precisely when the Minister starts working on the future of acute care and we ask the NZa to put the regional images more side by side so that it becomes clear, that we must take this aspect with us. It is precisely at the peak moments that I expect this to happen, but I would like to see it explained. It's annoying to wait an hour, but it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... It just shouldn't become too crowded at all those emergency stations on Friday afternoons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u131	Yeah, I couldn't agree more. That means something, too. I just mentioned the example of Friday night and how it works. We must also ensure, for example, that general practitioners have sufficient access to assess patients sufficiently during the day at all times. This is real chain care in full width.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u132	I'd like to go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u133	Then I'll see what questions I have left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u134	One more question from Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u135	A question I would like to hold against the Minister. The Minister said that the concentration of high-specialist acute care is his driving force for possibly less emergency services. The opposite reasoning is that patients in emergency care with, for example, low hemoglobin levels, which is life-threatening and requiring a withdrawal for several days, but which is not complex because you can do it with a bag of blood and a little adjustment of the medicine scale, also go to those 30, 40 remaining hospitals where just that specialist care was offered. I'd like to hear the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u136	This is an important point. What matters is whether it is essential to have emergency care as a gateway to providing acute care in a hospital. Whether a patient who, for example, needs a blood transfusion because of a low haemoglobin level in the hospital where he or she may already be known can go at any time, even if that hospital does not have an ER open at that time. We have just heard the example of the hospital in Meppel. I will stick to that example, but there are excellent agreements to be made. Is that or is that not a cascade effect, as it is so beautifully called? Then it turns out that if you make very good agreements about this, that cascade effect can be minimized to a great extent. It should be, because otherwise you will only get a further concentration of many forms of care in a more limited number of centres that are overflowing with it. We do not have a surplus of clinical capacity, as Mrs Agema has rightly pointed out very often. The answer is: you have to keep that access for such a patient. Mr. Chairman. I'm looking at the questions that still exist. I have already had this; public services in sparsely populated areas, regional images. Then I'm through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u137	I knew it. But then I have Mrs Bikker on offer for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u138	I had asked questions about the position of staff employed as temp or as zzp'er, as Mrs Van den Berg supplemented me. It is precisely because this debate once began on the shortage of staff that I thought was a subject on which I would like to hear the Minister reply to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u139	Excuse me. We're talking about ERs, but it doesn't just apply to hospitals. Yesterday I was visiting a general practitioner's practice here in The Hague who pointed out the large deficits they have with the supporting staff and so on. So it doesn't only apply to hospitals, but it applies very widely. What is sometimes or regularly forced to do is to hire employees who are not employed in all kinds of different ways. It is extremely important to make the work in healthcare attractive again. My fellow Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport is committed to informing your Chamber about a further approach to this before the Labour Market Committee debate on 11 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u140	Thank you for that determination. I would like to ask the Minister to agree with his colleague to include the role of health insurers in the procurement process. Because I really see a difference between hospitals where the number of people who are not employed is much higher, and other hospitals. I think we can still make some real success there, including from the health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u141	Clear. I'd like to do that with my heartfelt heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u142	I asked seven questions and five have not yet been answered. I don't take it personally this first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u143	I'd do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u144	No, I'm not gonna do that; I'm not gonna do that. But I had asked another question about the programme (Ont) Rule de Zorg and its follow-up, the emergency physician, the task redeployment and the estimates of the Capacity Body. Mr. Chairman. The Minister did come back to the LPZ, but I mentioned in particular the Central Action Line Movements, because I think that is broader than just the LPZ, which focuses on acute care. The CAV, as we call it in Zeeland, looks precisely at the overall picture and the total displacements. That's for me that inflow, flow and outflow, which I think is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u145	With regard to (Ont) Regulal de Zorg I say: there will certainly be a follow-up. That is currently being worked out. The bet is to send a letter to your room before the summer. Then Mrs Van Hil had a question about the ER doctor as a protected title. The Dutch Association of Emergency Doctors has applied to the College of Medical Specialists for recognition of the specialty. That is currently under assessment, on the basis of the requirements for specialism. The Healthcare Institute will then be asked for advice. On that basis, I can make a decision. Then the question about Basic Acute Care Training. This is a short six-month training, after which nurses can work in different departments within the acute care. In 2021, 641 nurses were received. I would like to return to the remaining question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u146	I had asked the Minister to include an analysis of the bottlenecks in the current situation in the letter he will send to the Chamber on the future-proofing of acute care. I may have a motion on this, but if the Minister wants to make a commitment to me, it will save us all time in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u147	I would like to make that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u148	Is there a need for a second term? At least that is the case with Mrs Agema. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a debate today on the recording stops at our emergency rooms. Our minister doesn't know how many there have been in the past year. I'm really embarrassed about that. I would ask the Minister to share this with us in the second term. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 10 years ago we had more than 100 emergency services that could provide 24/7 emergency care and that there are now only 80 of them;]] [[considers that further closure of SEH posts is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the number of emergency services is not reduced further,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas all possibilities should be taken into account to resolve the personnel problem in acute care;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote the three-year training of medical emergency care providers and to add a specialization of acute care to the regular HBOV courses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-342]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-343]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make two motions. One looks very much like Mrs Agema's first, but goes a bit further on one point. I'll just read it to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 24 emergency services have been closed since 2008;]] [[noting that this has put further pressure on acute concern;]] [[calls on the Government not to close emergency posts anymore and to examine where it would be desirable to open new emergency posts for the accessibility of acute care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the concentration of care increasingly calls on carers to move on from home;]] [[considers it unacceptable that caregivers should pay to park at their own hospital during working hours;]] [[calls on the government to engage with social partners with the aim of having caregivers park free of charge at their own hospital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-344]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-345]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u151	I see I said once: parking in the own hospital. That must of course be "parking at your own hospital" unless the parking garage is under the hospital. Then you could say it's in the hospital. I'll straighten that out, because we don't want cars moving in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u152	No, that would lead to confusion. Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u153	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for answering and making four important commitments, namely to examine whether the availability contribution should not apply to all emergency services and to take this into account in the vision that is coming our way, the commitment to engage in dialogue in Drenthe and in other places with people involved in healthcare tables, the thorough evaluation of what can be done better, and in the current situation in Hoogeveen and the City Canal, among others, and to see how we can train more people in the region because we know that people will work in the region sooner. An important point remained, or was answered unsatisfactoryly. That was the point that Mr Hijink also made a few times, namely that that basis should be in order. The Minister referred very quickly to A1 forms of acute concern, let me just say. That's what you need specialized help for. But the basis is the elderly who fall down the stairs, the mother or father who stands with a wounded child along the sports field, or the people who do not have cars and therefore really need close care. My question to the Minister is: would he like to take another critical look at that part? That too must be better guaranteed. I agree with Mrs Agema and Mr Hijink that we will have to see if we should not intensify emergency services rather than extend them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u154	Thank you. Then Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u155	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for his commitment to restore the minimum standard, both for quality and accessibility, in accordance with the WRR report. I have two motions, so I'm gonna talk fast. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the adoption of the Accession Act also brought into force the AMMS and its ministerial arrangements;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of that AMvB and a ministerial arrangement, conditions have been introduced for making structural adjustments to acute care, including the need to involve and consult regional and municipal authorities in a timely manner;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear by summer 2022 how information is being provided, in practice these conditions are being complied with and how it is being maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-346]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u156	And then the second, in the context of promoting learning culture. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not always possible to use more and more ambulances to keep up with the fifteen-minute standard, partly because of staff shortages;]] [[noting that in some regions artificial intelligence is used, analysing historical data of calls in the region, which can predict to some extent the time and location of the next incident and optimize the deployment of ambulances in real time;]] [[noting that this will make it possible to use ambulances more efficiently and to improve driving times;]] [[calls on the Government to identify by the summer of 2022 the experiences, results and advantages and disadvantages of such systems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u157	Thank you, Mr President. We're talking about an important case here today. I'd like to come back briefly to the time-out. With my professional background, I know that sometimes a time-out is very helpful, but I do think it is always very important for the people at home that we radiate that people can always go and that we really have the best help for all regions... I myself come from Zeeland, so this is very important to me and I would like to have said this for a moment. But the Minister has responded well and anticipated this. I'm assuming he'll take that whole thing with him. I will return to the Central Action Point on Movements for a moment. That was very prominent during covid. I would advise the Minister to take a look at this and also see how this will be further embezzled, because that will help the entire chain. I await the reactions at the point of the chair and the recognition of the ER doctor. It'll all take a while. I started in acute care 30 years ago and I see that we are still a little bit at the same point in that regard. I'd love it if we took that adult with us. I am also once again in favour of the skills acquired in training. For example, in a number of colleges we have the training minor acute care. I think that's something to take too. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u158	Thank you. Mrs Paulusma of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the many questions. Thank you also for your attention to the concerns that live especially in the region. It's important that you're seen and heard and that you feel safe wherever you live in this country. I have one more question. You come with an analysis and a letter. You come with a lot, I think. Could the Minister include this European aspect in this analysis of the establishment of acute care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u160	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber will then be Mrs Bikker, but she will waive her term of office. Mrs. Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers and, in particular, for the commitments. As I made clear during the first period, we think it is very important that the region is included and that there is a broad eye for the emotions that are going on there, including in terms of viability and other factors. I am very pleased that the Minister has agreed to include the region in the analyses and plans. I am very happy that there will be a bottlenecks analysis as part of the plans for the future resilience of acute care, because you can only make good plans and look to the future when you see what has gone wrong in the past. The most important thing is that the new policy is going to be made with the quality of care as its objective, and not just austerity. I'm very happy about that. I would therefore like to thank the Minister and also the President, because staying so well within the time of a VWS debate is a rarity and a fine one, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u162	Then you'll be home in time. I'm gonna suspend for a few minutes and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u163	The Minister has the floor and we'll be outside in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you don't mind if I put the glasses on? I had one more question from Mrs Van den Hil about the Central Action Point on Movements. I really do have a moment, but that can be done outside this setting, which requires some additional explanations, so that I can then come back to it in writing. I must remain guilty of the answer now, with an apology. Mrs Paulama asked me if we could take the European perspective with us in the future of acute care, and certainly with attention to all border regions. The answer is yes, we can do that wholeheartedly. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motions. On the motion in part No. 342 the opinion has been dissuaded. Opinion on the motion for a resolution (Doc. In the case of the three-year medical care programme, acute care and the regular HBO-V training programmes are to be maintained. My colleague comes back with a letter on the labour market approach. The motion in part No. 344 has been dissuaded by reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 345 equally, dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u165	There was a request to hold a motion. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u166	The Minister's moving so fast. I was just working on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u167	Sorry! I also get the assignment "you can answer them all and then we'll be out in a few minutes." That puts the pace on it, too, with an apology!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u168	I got that, but then it happened so fast!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u169	Now Mrs. Agema's gonna pull the boat out again! But your question was?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u170	I think the Minister asked me to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u171	Then my question is, will you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u172	But I don't know why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u173	Because soon my colleague, the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport, will come forward with a letter on the labour market approach in healthcare. That is what this is all about. I'd also like to bring it to her attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u174	Okay, but then I'll expect her to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u175	Sure. I would like to draw her attention to this and ask her to come back to it in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u176	Okay, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u177	At the request of Mrs Agema, I propose her motion (29247, No. 343). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u178	The motions on the documents Nos. 344 and 345 I'd have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u179	A question from Mr Hijink, briefly, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u180	The minister says "dissuade." So that's about why caregivers have to pay parking costs in order to work. The Minister says "dissuade," but I do not hear any argument at all as to why this would be a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u181	That's the motion in part No. 345.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u182	That really is a responsibility of healthcare institutions themselves. It often also has to do with, for example, municipal appointments. I just don't have a say in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u183	It's not about control. The motion calls for dialogue with social partners, employers and employees, to see how we can solve this. For many caregivers it is a big problem that they cannot lose their car, that they have to pay to be able to park. It helps to keep care attractive to people who want to work in it. Then, of course, it would help to have that conversation, and then we'd like to hear what's coming out of it. I don't really see the objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u184	Labour market and staff retention and staff expansion are strongly on the agenda of healthcare providers and healthcare providers. So it is also a subject of discussion there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u185	Fine. The motion in part No. 346.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u186	The motion in part No. 346 is Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 347 is not recommended, with reference to the debate. The motion in part No. 348 has also been discouraged, with reference to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u187	One more question from Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u188	I believe that the Minister has already indicated that it is up to the regions themselves to define this system. That's not the discussion either. I am concerned that we are hearing different experiences. I would like to ask the Minister to identify the systems in which the different experiences are based. This is to promote learning culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u189	As I indicated in the debate, this is really a subject of discussion in the RAVs, both individually and among themselves. So they're already doing this. Experiences are shared. This does not mean, as Mrs van den Berg knows, that each region chooses or continues to opt for the same solution. You referred to a specific system. Some regions work with it and others have worked with it and have stopped it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u190	Shortly, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u191	Very briefly. I did not refer to any specific system. I have just said in my speech that I know that there are different systems. I've asked you to compare them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u192	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u193	Thank you. I would like to take this explanatory statement to heart, but the opinion remains exactly the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u194	We thank the Minister for his appreciation of the seventh motion, but it is not there. That could be us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u195	Oh! Sorry, I'll get them real soon. Then we can withdraw the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u196	Nor is the motion being held, so I am curious to see how the groups are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u197	We're gonna see it in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u198	We're gonna see. It's gonna be exciting, exciting, exciting. So much for this debate. I thank the Minister for his presence and explanatory statement today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u199	I'll suspend for ten minutes and then we'll vote.
