ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Before we start, I would like to wish the VMBO framework and the VMBO basic students a lot of success today, because today comes the exam results. We're thinking of you from the plenary. The next item is the debate on the Spring paper 2022. I would like to meet with the Members six questions to each other and six questions to the rulers. Yeah, that's a lot, but at least we can ask through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	I wouldn't agree to that. I don't see why. I understand, but to the cabinet... it's an important debate with the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Secretary of State for Finance is also there. I wouldn't want to limit that to the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Then I would like to meet with you, and I would also like to take a look at Members of this House that we are reducing the number of interruptions to four, because we have many speakers, nineteen. We'll see how it goes in practice. Then we let go of the number to the rulers, but let us keep the questions to each other and to the rulers brief and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	This is my first time. I think that asking two or three questions is a must if we are to have a bit of a nice debate. You do not have to keep very long interruptions, but please do six to each other and to the rulers who fit and are fair, as Mr Wilders said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Then I'm gonna stick to that, and if it runs out, at least I'll have your permission to do something about it. Then we start, but I see that Mr Eerdmans of JA21 also has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr President, good morning. I do indeed have a point of order in this debate. I'm really excited about it, but there's got to be something wrong with me. We have heard the Prime Minister say over the last few weeks: that purchasing power, very nice, but we are not going to change anything about it; there is no room left. We have all had the Prime Minister and Minister Kaag visit the political groups to talk about purchasing power and increase it. We haven't heard from him since. We like to debate, but we also like results. The big question is: if my group is taking part in this debate, is there room for improvement in purchasing power or is everything fixed and walled up? Because then we have a debate where we are just shifting some commas. I think that the entire opposition wants to see changes on the left and right. But if that is blocked in advance by the Prime Minister's statements in the media, we might as well all go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	And then you don't participate in the debate, I understand. Let me take a look at the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister to respond. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	I didn't say that in the media. I said we can't compensate for everything. Of course, we are always looking at what, in addition to the packages that are there, totals up to more than 6 billion, perhaps even more is needed. In doing so, you always have a special eye for the people with the lowest incomes and the middle groups, who may also be affected. You also have to take into account that the CPB figures go over the end of 2023. As a whole, we cannot promise anything, but neither the Minister of Finance nor I have said that it is categorically 'no'. It's complicated, and you can't compensate for everything. So this debate is absolutely useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would like to leave it at that, otherwise we will have a debate and I do not want that. It was a point of order and you attached to it the procedural consequence to participate or not, depending on the answer. Let us not have a debate on this now. No, I won't let you. We're really gonna get started. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance. I would also like to welcome you to the gallery today and to the people who are following the debate in a different way. I give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Madam President. Millions of Dutch people are in a deep financial crisis. They're being brutally abandoned by this cabinet. Pensioners, people with benefits, people with jobs and families often don't make it anymore. Inflation is skyrocketing and everything is becoming more expensive: the groceries, the energy bill and the price of petrol and diesel. It's priceless. A few weeks ago, I asked people who had a hard time financially to send me their story. There has been a massive response to that. The reactions are heartbreaking. What suffering in the Netherlands and what financial misery. I will tell some of these stories here today and make concrete proposals to help those people, because that is really not the way to go any longer. Mr. Chairman. For example, a lady writes that she hasn't been to the dentist for three years, turns the heater to 17 degrees if it's fresh and can't buy a flower if she goes to the cemetery to visit her husband's grave. A couple with two children whose husband is working full-time and the wife part-time writes to me that after paying the fixed charges they have so little left that they go to the food bank weekly. And a lady who works in home care writes what she encounters with her clients: people with rheumatism who don't have money to turn on the heating when it's cold and who stay in bed with a thick scarf all day long; people who soak up their detergent with water for longer; people who put their sick pet to sleep because they can't pay the vet's bill anymore. Or the lady who writes to me that her energy bill has risen from €200 to €550 and that she can no longer pay the monthly contribution of €500 for her husband's nursing home. "I really don't know what to do anymore," she writes desperately. Or the gentleman with heart failure, who didn't want to join the ambulance at first, because then he would have to pay his own risk completely. Or the lady who e-mails that she is chronically ill and has to choose between medication and food, because both are too expensive. Mr. Chairman. Or the couple who already sold half the furniture at Marketplace to do groceries. And then the 93-year-old gentleman who, he writes, has worked hard all his life and who now has €25 a week left to do groceries. He's incredibly angry at the Prime Minister and says he doesn't have enough money to live on, but just too much to die on. Or the working mother of two sons who, because of her income, gets no supplement, but also doesn't draw from her salary. Or the gentleman with only AOW, who can't afford it anymore, who can't take it anymore and who doesn't want it anymore. He didn't get his meds from the pharmacist because he had to pay for it. But he couldn't pay extra. He had to pay extra, but he didn't have the money, so the gentleman went home without medication. I'm getting goosebumps that this is happening. Or the family that can no longer pay the fixed costs and especially the energy bill and only buys old bread from the bakery and eats cooked macaroni three days a week. Or the former military with PTSD who says to be guessed because he can no longer pay the travel expenses to his treatment, his therapist. "The common people are breaking down, Mr. Wilders," he writes to me. Or the 79-year-old man who only has AOW with a small pension of €30 per month and who almost runs out of savings. He hopes, he writes, that this way he won't make it to the 80. Mr. Chairman. This is the Netherlands anno 2022. Mrs Kaag and Mr Rutte should be ashamed to let this happen in a wealthy and prosperous country like the Netherlands. Surely it is too insane for words and not to explain that they are spending up to 100 billion dollars on asylum seekers, nitrogen, climate and development aid, but they are suffocating our own people. It is even so bad that asylum seekers are now housed on luxury cruise ships, while many Dutch people are not even able to go on holiday anymore. What D66 circus did we end up in? What kind of crazy priorities are these? Our purchasing power, our farmers, our care, our homes, our pensions: everything is destroyed. By slavishly jabbering Prime Minister Rutte to Mrs Kaag during the negotiations for this cabinet, we are now in some sort of toxic D66 dictatorship. Do you find it strange that 82% of the Dutch no longer have confidence in the cabinet? Only 18% of them trust the cabinet. A decent cabinet should be working day and night, day and night, to help solve the Dutch' financial problems. That should be priority one, two and three. But that is not the case. Mrs. Kaag and Mr. Rutte fly themselves in luxury planes from Davos to Washington and other places in the world to have a good time there and enjoy five-star hotels and expensive dinners. They themselves know the word "crisis" only from the newspaper. They have no idea how much of our population is suffering. We have a Prime Minister and a Deputy Prime Minister who have been totally disenchanted from the reality of ordinary men and women, from millions of Dutchmen. That's terrible. Mr. Chairman. I have put forward six concrete proposals in six amendments to improve people's purchasing power this year. Only spend EUR 10 billion less on nitrogen policy and more on our people. My first proposal is to reduce rents by 10% from 1 July. My second proposal is to set the low VAT rate at 0% temporarily until 1 January, so that messages are affordable again. My third proposal is that fuel taxes on petrol and diesel should also be set at 0% temporarily, so that a litre of petrol will be at least €0.65 cheaper. My fourth proposal is to set VAT on gas and electricity at 0% so that people can pay their energy bills again. My fifth proposal: increase the energy surcharge for people with a narrow scholarship to €1,200. And my sixth proposal: increase income support by €25 per month for those many people with only a small supplement. That's not too much to ask, is it? A lot of people have been helped. Mr. Chairman. This is a much-needed and realistic plan, which we can help millions of people this year, so that they can get their lives back on track and get a different perspective from the bitter poverty that Kaag and Rutte have in store for them. I hope they will think this through.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. There is an interruption by Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Wilders comes up with a number of stories from Dutchmen who, of course, touch everyone here. It is perfectly right that he should raise it. In the meantime, no word from Mr Wilders on how energy prices have become so high. I understand, because that has everything to do with Vladimir Putin. This has all to do with the fact that Russia has invaded a country, that we have had to impose sanctions which have driven energy prices, which now means that inflation is so high. Vladimir Putin's closest friend in this parliament is there. That's Mr. Wilders. He even got a little friendship pin from him. My question is: if Mr Wilders also looks at the cause of the economic situation in which we are now in, is he prepared to acknowledge that and is he prepared to return that friendship pin to Moscow?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is a shame that the group chairman of D66 is using this debate about people who cannot afford, pay, or abuse their medicines for his flat-rate PVV hatred. Let him just go into the points I mention. When you talk about the war, I tell you because the Prime Minister has also used the war more often as an excuse for the fact that things are so bad now that they are excuses for opportunity. Even before the war, in December last year, the Netherlands had an inflation rate of almost 6%. There was no war back then. That was not the case at all. Even before the war, every litre of petrol for more than one euro consisted of excise duty and VAT. All the costs that already blew up before the war. Even before the war, this Prime Minister has promised the Netherlands a hundred times better purchasing power, from €1,000 to everyone in the plus and I know what else. It turned out to be all lies. But what you did do with your one-sided boycott of oil to Russia is that you didn't catch the Russians, you caught the Netherlands. I tell you that Russia is now exporting its fossil fuels only for more money. The price of fossil fuels has increased as a result of Europe's boycott. So now the Russians are getting more money for their exports. They are now exporting to India and China. Your goal was to use that oil boycott to make Putin's army's war chest, which I think is a fantastic goal, but you have achieved the opposite. He gets more for his oil; he gets it from other countries. And do you know who the victim is, Mr. Paternotte? Do you know who the victim is? That's the Dutch citizen. Your game doesn't make Putin a penny poorer, but the Dutchman does, because he gets to deal with a higher oil price and a higher energy price and he can pay the bill even less. Now you again!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	That's bullshit! If there's anyone who keeps making the wrong proposals, it's Wilders. Ten years ago, when he was a tolerated partner for those two years, he wanted to cut back on DOD. This means that we need to invest more now to help the Ukrainians. Wilders was always the man who fought hardest against investment in renewable energy. That was all bullshit, according to him. But the fact that we have too little renewable energy and have been dependent on Russia means that people now pay so much at the pump and energy prices rise. The first thing he is proposing here, when I ask for it, is to lift the sanctions against Russia once again. But he has nothing to offer to the Ukrainians who have been attacked, to Ukraine where tens of thousands of people died for their freedom. So again my question: is Mr Wilders on Putin's side or is he on the side of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	I've only been in front of the Netherlands since the first day I've been here. I'm not here to talk about the war. I stand here to stand up for the Dutch citizen who doesn't stand up anymore. It doesn't work anymore, because thanks to D66, we're totally going in the wrong direction. You are destroying the economy, you are destroying the farmers with your nitrogen policy, you are opening the borders wide open, and we are being flooded with asylum seekers in the Netherlands. It costs a lot of money. That costs billions a year. We could all have spent that money on the Dutch, on the farmers, on the people who can't pay their bills, on the 93-year-old man who doesn't get his medicine from the pharmacy. Make a fuss about that! I stand here for the Dutch and to stand up for them. Your game won't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	I still don't hear a single answer. Because what is the reason that so many Dutch people have problems and have little money to spend? For the most part, it's because they've lost too much money on energy, on electricity, so they can be warm in the house, and on gas and fuel at the pump. These are all things we imported from Russia, which the German Chancellor also said was an historic mistake to count on. Wilders was always the main advocate here of warm ties with Russia and of continuing to extract fossil fuels from them. He's against any help to Ukraine. My question is whether he is prepared to renounce that friendship pin, that sign that he is Putin's greatest friend here in parliament, and to break the friendship with Russia. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	I do not go into cheap rhetoric that misuses the war for this purchasing power debate, even if you ask it a hundred thousand times. I know I didn't set up that oil boycott. Why not? Not because I am a friend of Putin Putin is the great aggressor here, so it is quite right that he should be dealt with, but because it affects the Dutch population. Once again, because you unilaterally set up the oil boycott, the Prime Minister and others, the price of oil has risen. Because Putin sells his oil to India and China, he still gets his money. Those are very big countries and they make him very rich. He's using that money for his terrible war machine. The result is that he has more money. So he's more your friend than my friend, because you're gonna get Putin more money because he's selling the oil for more money elsewhere because of that oil boycott. And the Dutchman is screwed. The Dutchman cannot pay his bill. The Dutchman must immediately remain in bed with a scarf, because thanks to the boycott of D66 he cannot pay his energy bill. Now you again!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u18	I was actually touched by Mr Wilders' speech and by the list of the problems of the Dutch. What struck me most of all, and for which I would like to compliment him, is that he talked about all the Dutch. That is quite special for a man who has been convicted of setting up groups against one another. My question is this. He's proposing a number of measures, but that's actually more plaster sticking. They are not structural measures to help all Dutch people. So my question is: do I find the PVV on my side when we propose, for example, a structural reduction of the tax rate on labour and a higher tax on pollution? That's what you do structuralally for all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u19	Once again, I would like to leave aside the first nonsense. I'm suggesting that on balance for all Dutch people... I change the law and make proposals for everyone. And yes, I haven't seen any proposal from you. I just know that we're reducing VAT... Just take the VAT on groceries. I was at the Aldi last week. Later they turned out to be angry about that, but I saw all of them people, old men and women, but also young families, with a cart. They had €10 on them. From €10 they had to eat for three days. There were four products in that basket. Four products. We must be ashamed that we have people in the Netherlands with one cart with four products in it, who say to me: I can't even buy more milk. It had endive in it and a piece of cheese. There wasn't even meat in there, nothing. Those people just didn't have the money. We have to do something about that. A country like Poland has now set VAT at 0%. The country of Poland, do you remember? EUR 10 billion per year from the European Union, and hence from the Netherlands. That's where they'll do it. And here our own people can no longer afford their own messages. They can't pay their own energy bill anymore. They can't afford their health care anymore. We should be ashamed of ourselves here if we don't do something about it. That is my answer to your question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you, Mr. Wilders. Then we will listen to Mrs Hermans of the VVD. Mr. Eerdmans, Mrs. Hermans hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u21	Some questions you ask at the end, and some questions need to be asked at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u22	Isn't it nice to have Mrs Hermans give an introduction first?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u23	I propose that I ask a question now and save my other question for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u24	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u25	I think there's an elephant in this room. That's a nitrogen elephant. This subject has caused quite a stir in the Netherlands, including at your congress. A motion has been tabled by Mrs Pauwels and Mrs Nelisse. That motion has been passed. My question is very simple. That motion calls for a change in the nitrogen policy. If I tabled this motion today, will the VVD Group support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. Mr Eerdmans is right: we had a conference last Saturday where there was a heated and intense debate on nitrogen and the problem of nitrogen that we have in the Netherlands. I think that's good, and I think it's right. It is quite something, what is going on and what is coming towards farmers. Farmers have been in great uncertainty and still are, because the perspective we are going to work towards has yet to be worked out. My group also believes that this can and should be done even more sharply in a number of areas. You have one motion in your hands. Four motions on nitrogen were adopted last Saturday. With all four of these motions, my group is going to work. Next week is the first nitrogen debate. We will use these motions to debate with Minister Van der Wal and Minister Staghouwer. That is the question of how we can give the motions that have been adopted at our congress a proper place in the elaboration of the nitrogen plans, which must now take place with the provinces. But I suppose there are many more ideas and suggestions for that effect here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u27	I think the Netherlands would like to know how the VVD positions itself here. What Minister Van der Wal or Minister Staghouwer thinks will be the case. I wonder whether you support the members of your party and the farmers and the people who are protesting against this rigid nitrogen policy. Or are you more behind D66? D66 says you can jump high and low, but we leave it as it is. I would like to have an answer to the question about that position. We are going to table this motion as JA21 to ask what the Lower House, the political delegation of the parties, thinks of nitrogen policy. Does it need to be adjusted? We can look at how it is adapted later, but the challenge and mission of your own congress is quite clear: adjust this policy. So one more question: are you going to support our motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u28	I would like to remind you that next week we will have the major debate on nitrogen. That's what you said yourself. Today we are talking about the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u29	I stand here as group chairman of the VVD and I stand for the signature that I and my group have signed under the coalition agreement. We have agreed to reduce nitrogen emissions. That's the goal. I'm 100% in favour of it. Last Friday, the cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber and to the Netherlands containing the goals for each area where plans should be made to achieve those goals in the coming year. Those targets are standing. And now, Mr Eerdmans, it is up to us, in the debate with the Chamber, together with the Cabinet, to give shape to achieving those goals, the way to achieving those goals. That letter from Friday was a starting point. We are only really starting now and that debate is going to take place here next Wednesday or Thursday. I do not know when that debate is going to take place in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. You're starting your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you, Mr President. We're talking about the Spring Note today. The word "spring note" sounds awfully Haags, but that's not really it at all. The Spring note and everything below is about proposals from the cabinet to solve problems for people at home. A number of problems that arose shortly after the coalition agreement was concluded are the purchasing power of the government. We discussed this for a long time in the declaration of government with the elderly, a tax setback, a ruling by the Supreme Court and, of course, that terrible war in Ukraine. It is part of politics that we respond to current events and that we solve and deal with new problems that are on our way. That always means we have to make choices. If you work with four parties, compromises must always be made. That is the only way forward. The VVD Group welcomes the fact that the cabinet really has a number of major problems with this Spring paper. For example, it is proposed to increase the AOW with the minimum wage. I can't believe we're solving the problem of that tax breaker. That we are implementing the ruling of the Supreme Court on box 3 and responding to that terrible war in Ukraine. Of course, we do this by helping Ukraine humanitarianly, with military support, but also by investing more in our defence, in our security here in the Netherlands. Solving those problems also costs money. For the VVD it is also important that we handle our finances neatly. Even though less spending is always difficult and painful, we are satisfied that the cabinet also chooses to do so. Mr. Chairman. In the whole package there is one thing that really stands out for the VVD, namely the extra money, the extra investment in defence. For our safety here in the Netherlands, for the safety of the Netherlands in Europe and for those who are committed to the safety of our country. 2 billion more on top of the additional 4 billion a year in this period from the coalition agreement: together, the largest investment this cabinet makes. An investment for which my group has negotiated hard is also a much-needed investment. It is necessary, because the war in Ukraine has pushed everyone with its noses on the facts. How important is it, then, that with these additional investments, we can offer a higher wage to the people working in the Defense Department? How important is it then that we give these people the right equipment to do their work on exercises or during stakes? Mr. Chairman. For the first time since the Wales pledge agreements and for the first time since 1995, we are investing another 2% of our economic expenditure to protect our country. For the first time, and I said it earlier this week, as far as my group is concerned, it was not the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u32	There are many colleagues who would like to ask you a question. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mrs Hermans spoke at the beginning of her speech about choices to be made. That's absolutely true. We have to make those choices, but the cost to people has to be reduced. The prices of groceries, refueling, the energy bill are now just going through the roof. People can't afford it anymore. Mrs Hermans also referred to what we are talking about today, the Spring Note. So there is nothing extra to be found in that Spring note to ensure that prices for people go down. How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u34	I was not yet on the issue of purchasing power and how those high prices are hitting people hard at the moment. It's not like this cabinet isn't doing anything about purchasing power and the financial problems. When we saw at the end of last year that these energy prices were going to rise, that was before the war, money has become available to reduce energy taxes. When we saw just after the beginning of the war how fast and hard they were moving forward, this cabinet proposed a package to anticipate the spring note, you might say, to do a number of things for people's purchasing power. This includes VAT on energy taxes, excise duties and an increase in allowances for minima, for low-income households. I'm okay with that. I welcome the rapid presentation of that package in April, by my head. Am I saying that now all the problems have been solved? No, absolutely not. The problems have then become greater, even more so. Last week's CPB report shows that, too. I'll get to that in a minute. I also think we should do everything we can to see what else we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mrs Hermans lists what is already known. Well, we already know that, so we already knew that. We stand here today as a Chamber to debate what we hope can be done further to ensure that people's costs are now reduced. Yes, things have happened, but at the same time prices continue to rise and a lot of people simply can't afford it anymore. Mrs Hermans is talking about making choices. I would also like to offer her a choice. At the same time, we see that the big companies are currently making huge profits. Those profits are already higher than in the top year 2019, for corona. Is it not fair and a very good choice to ask for a fairer contribution from these big companies, a higher tax on profits, and to use that money to directly reduce the costs for people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u36	In the first instance, I deliberately gave a comprehensive answer to Mrs Marijnissen's question because she suggested that this cabinet is not doing anything to alleviate the suffering, to reduce the high costs. Now she is right to ask whether there can also be additional things because we see that the problem has not yet been solved. In fact, the problems are getting worse. I'll share that. I see that. It is no longer just a problem at the lowest incomes. It is now also beginning to become a serious problem for the middle groups. Let me now turn to Mrs Marijnissen's question. There are different terms for such a tax. I have also seen a'solidarity levy' pass by. I think that is quite an interesting idea in itself, because, although we should not pretend to be all companies, I share the feeling that there are now companies, such as the energy companies and oil companies, which are indeed making a lot of money because of the situation we are now in. That feels very unfair when people at home are in a great deal of trouble at the same time. So the thought that you could make a move between that, I find at least a thought that we need to explore and investigate. I would like to ask a few questions there, because I said that it is not all companies. I would like to be careful not to tax all the companies just like that, because there are also companies that are picking up after the corona crisis. Not everyone's doing just fine. And the second is: what is it doing in a broader perspective for our locational climate? I know that this may not be the most important thing for Mrs Marijnissen, but I also feel responsible for it. I think it is important that we continue to look at this, so that our economy continues to run.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mrs Hermans thinks it is an interesting idea that we should look at again, but that is absolutely not enough. It doesn't just feel a little unfair. It is simply super unfair that the costs for people continue to rise, that more and more people are in trouble and that at the same time there are companies that are becoming hugely rich, which are currently benefiting from the crisis. It would be only fair to ask for a fair contribution from these companies. You do that through the profit tax, because a profit tax is paid on your profits. It's paid for by companies that are doing well. If we ask for an honest contribution from those oil companies, for example, which are now getting super rich, then we can use that money to reduce the excise duty on the pump so that people can still refuel without being frightened by what they have to pay. Is Mrs Hermans prepared not only to examine this and think about it, but to say today as a Chamber: something extra really needs to be done to keep people's purchasing power up? A fair contribution from these big companies is a good measure to reduce the costs for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u38	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that we should look here today as a Chamber to see if we can do something extra because of the financial pressure that people are currently experiencing at home. I have said that I find the solidarity levy or the tax on companies that are now making a lot of money because of the crisis a thought that I really want to take a serious look at. In my opinion, one of my questions to the cabinet was that I would like to ask him here through an interruption or the results of the investigation that is now under way can quickly come to the Chamber so that we can look at it as an option. Eventually it all has to be paid and this could be a variant. But there are more imaginable ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u39	Then we go to Mr Azarkan, then Mrs Kuik, Mr Klaver and Mr Dassen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u40	I also took a look at the VVD Congress this weekend. I saw Mrs Hermans standing there and I thought: there is a leader. Certainly from the fraction of the VVD. But it is also a leader who has made a promise: a balanced and positive purchasing power development. The question to the leader of the VVD is: has she kept that promise to the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr Azarkan refers here to a debate we had on the government declaration at the beginning of January, just after the coalition agreement was published. There is indeed a sentence in the coalition agreement on an average balanced and positive purchasing power picture for all. That was the end of January and a month later a terrible war broke out in Ukraine. The world has changed a bit, Mr. Azarkan. That does not affect my intention to work hard and hard to make sure that we reduce the financial pressure on households and entrepreneurs where we can. But now pretending the world is the same as it was at the end of January, I find it a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u42	That is certainly a little too easy, but the question is whether that does not reveal anything. The question is whether the crisis that has broken out is the cause of the fact that millions of Dutch people are no longer living. Or does it expose something that is fundamentally wrong in our society? I would like to hear from Mrs Hermans how she looks at the fact that in a society like the Netherlands there are so many families in trouble if energy costs increase a few hundred euros. Apparently there are companies that make incredible profits, but on the other hand citizens cannot make it to the end of the month and have to go to the food bank. Does such a crisis not expose a number of fundamental inequalities in our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u43	With the outbreak of the war, we see uncertainties in many places. One of the largest is the financial pressure due to the increased prices. It's a lot of pressure. We're seeing a lot of trouble coming up now. I also think that I have just said that we have an obligation to do everything we can to remove the pressure from the boiler. It stays on its feet, and it's out of the question. I told you, at the end of January we were in a completely different world here and we talked about a balanced purchasing power picture, but a month later the world was no longer in balance. That is the situation from which we are speaking and having a debate. That has put a magnifying glass on a lot of things that we are working on, including our safety; I have already mentioned it. We've lived in the naive assumption that we could do it with a little less. So it can't invest a little less in safety. There's a lot of them at the same time. I recognize a number of problems which Mr Azarkan refers to. I also think that we should do our stinking best to do so where we can solve it or at least alleviate the suffering. But we have to realize that the world has really changed since the end of February.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u44	But we don't just have to look at what we can fix every time a crisis breaks out. It is also a time to distance and look: what is going on in society? I would like to say to Mrs Hermans that the tax on profits of companies has gone from 49% over the last 30 years to 6% or 7%. But to the citizens the money is returned. That means we have a society that is out of balance. If there's a crisis, you can see a lot of people aren't gonna make it. Companies can make it, but people can't make it. We've had about the highest petrol prices for years. That's right. Before the Ukraine crisis, we already saw that gas and electricity bills were on the rise. Already in September or October, when you were negotiating, a bit separate from society, there were citizens who said: energy companies are falling down and I now have to pay triple. I would like to tell Mrs Hermans that, on the one hand, we need to look carefully at how we must adapt each time we have a crisis, but we also need to ask ourselves, fundamentally, whether we have built, under the leadership of the VVD, a society that is out of balance, which is not fair in parts and where millions of Dutch people are struggling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u45	The coalition agreement was negotiated in the autumn. We did see prices rise at that time. At that time, the cabinet decided to make an initial amount available to reduce the energy bill. In that coalition agreement that was negotiated at the time, we have just distanced ourselves from it. We have looked at: what are the major challenges for the future, what are the major issues facing this country, what should we do to ensure that this country is strong and strong in the future? This has led to considerable investment in education. As a result, we have said: we are now really going to work seriously and ambitiously with the climate objectives. That's exactly what we're seeing in the war right now. Mr Paternotte mentioned it just now in an interruption with Mr Wilders: Russia's enormous dependence means that we are now facing extreme price increases. We must therefore become independent of Russia. This will lead to different use of fuels. All this capacity must also be available in this country. But we have a coalition agreement in which we say: these are the big issues for the future. At the same time, a terrible event, namely a war, came through. With all that, we are now trying to take an approach and do the things that are right for this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u46	I now have a discussion with Mrs Hermans in which she quotes Russia every time as a major statement for what is going on. I think we should get past that. I think we should look at what has been built on society in recent years, over the past ten to fifteen years. There are fundamental inequalities in this. There are inequalities which make it very difficult for citizens and for businesses to be relatively easy. Property income is hardly taxed, while if you work, if you earn €30,000, you pay 38% tax. Those are... they're imbalances. Whatever you call it, it means that citizens have a hard time in the event of a setback. Of course, we can expect nothing to happen, but as a leader, you have to look in society and beyond what risks are coming to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u47	I used Russia once in response to a question from Mr Azarkan. So it is not entirely right to make this ridiculous. When it comes to reflecting, I believe you can blame the VVD a great deal, but not that we do not reflect on our own actions. I did that last Saturday at our conference. One of the things was exactly about that. That's exactly what that was about. It was about the balance in our country between taxing capital and profit, if you will, and taxing labour. Then for me, the starting point is that work must pay off. I would therefore very much like to reduce the burden on labour. I want to go to a balance that fits and that's right, where the baker doesn't pay more taxes than the pawnshop boss and where the dentist with hard work doesn't pay more than someone who lives off the return on his assets. Those are things we need to think about. I'm willing to do that. That's what the VVD is willing to do. However, we have to do this carefully, because the tendency here in this Chamber is sometimes that we put everything on the same footing, throw all the power into one pile and then think that we have solved it with one measure. I'd like to watch for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u48	I recognize that the problems have grown in recent months. At the same time, I have to say that, among other things, my group said in the autumn and repeated in the spring: the measures taken by the cabinet are good in themselves, but they are too unfocused and insufficient. We'll see that now. This is reflected in the predictions of the CPB. That says that not next year, but already this year 1.2 million people can no longer live. Mrs Hermans sees that, too. So my question is: what are we going to do right now? It is good that you are embracing a solidarity levy, which we have long argued for together with GroenLinks. But if it is only being investigated and no concrete action is being taken now, people will not be helped. So why not do an extra €500 surcharge already this year to help those families, the hardworking Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mrs Kuik addresses a very legitimate problem, namely: how do you take the measures aimed at families and households where the problems are most acute at the moment? Of course, that's always the dilemma we're in. If you want to do something quickly, from today to tomorrow, to help people, you always come up with generic measures. Then it's much harder to steer it in such a way that it ends up in the right place. Our political wishes here are often to do it faster. That also makes sense, because we are all in constant contact with people, businesses and entrepreneurs in the country who tell us their problems. But if you really want to take very targeted measures, these political wishes and the reality are sometimes at odds with each other. Then there is Mrs Kuik's question about the allowance through the care allowance. I think that too is a very creative proposal. Then you're looking for something that you can do this year, without having to build up whole new systems and arrangements. For me, however, there is one question. The CPB, which Mrs Kuik rightly referred to, says that not only the lower incomes now have to do with problems, but also the middle incomes, the middle groups. My question to Mrs Kuik would actually be how you do something for those groups with the proposal she is playing with or thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u50	Partly. Partly you can do this by freezing or lowering the rents for more groups and taking other targeted measures. If we talk about that, we'll figure it out. We just have to agree first that the problems are acute, that families cannot wait until the autumn budgets. They need to have clarity now. You can, because we said in the autumn: take action. We said in the spring, take action. When we went for coffee with Minister Kaag and Prime Minister Rutte, we said: take action now. We are thinking along with you and we are making very targeted proposals to support people with ordinary jobs, low incomes and middle incomes. My sincere question to you is now: do you feel the momentum? Do you also feel that it should now be, that we cannot wait to investigate and explore, but that we now have to make agreements with each other, with concrete motions and amendments, in order to achieve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u51	I feel the urgency because I recognize the stories that Mr Wilders was talking about and which I am sure colleagues will also refer to in their contributions. I hear those stories, too. I'd love to do something, too. But in that sense I try to be a bit real about what can be done at what time. If we adopt a motion today, it will not be settled tomorrow. Things also take time to work out. So I'm not saying I wouldn't want to, and I'm not moving away from it. I do think that we should be realistic: saying that we want something does not mean that it is settled tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u52	I therefore fundamentally disagree with you. We have a history together, Mrs Hermans. We know there's a lot to do if you want something. We can do that now, but it is about political will. It is about recognising that the bar must be raised, that action is now needed, that people cannot live on a sandwich with satisfaction, but that they now need targeted politics from you, from the cabinet. It can be arranged right now, so people know where they stand in the fall. Then that uncertainty can be removed from 1.2 million people who will soon be in the cold, no longer go to swimming lessons or no longer be able to get groceries from the Aldi, because they simply can't afford it anymore. And that would be a really unnecessary waste. I hope you'll hear for yourself that things can be different and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u53	I think Mrs. Kicken is pulling my words a little out of context. I say I share the urgency. I also really want something to happen. All I am saying is that it is not settled tomorrow or the day after tomorrow if we adopt a motion today. I would very much like us today to be able to define a direction that we can say: so this year we can do something about this financial pressure on households. That always takes some time, but that's different than saying: we'll push it out ahead and we'll see at that. Well. That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u54	What is the VVD's proposal today to do something for the people who can't live now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u55	I had not yet reached that part of my speech. But my question to the cabinet would be: what are the buttons you can turn on this year? That is why I have just told Mrs Kuik that I do not find the idea of the healthcare allowance uninteresting at all. But what other buttons are there? Because I want to reach those middle groups. If there's anything you can do this year, I want you to reach them. What possibilities are there to pay for that? 'Cause that's what I'm saying for a second. The sun's going up for nothing. We have to pay for it, too. We have already heard the idea of the solidarity levy. I would like to add the possibility of coverage: what can we do with increased VAT revenues? Could we also use them to support people at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u56	I am terribly sorry, but this is really free pity, by saying here: I also feel the urgency and I ask the cabinet what buttons we have to turn on. On 18 February, we had a debate with the cabinet that dealt with this issue. On 22 March we explored all options with the cabinet and looked at where the possibilities lie. You negotiated the Spring Note. That is where you should have spoken about the question of which buttons we can play. You say now: I would like to know now what we could do. That's late, way too late, especially for a coalition party. We have already made proposals on the healthcare allowance. The Secretary of State said at the time: there are implementation risks, but it can be done. So the question is no longer with the cabinet, but with us: are we prepared to take those risks? Are you willing to take those risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u57	I really distance myself from the picture that nothing is happening at all or that we would not have done anything at all. A substantial purchasing power package was presented in April. This concerns excise duties at the pump, VAT reduction and an increase in allowances for low-income families. That's not nothing, and that's on top of the package we did at the end of last year. All these measures will continue until the end of this year. Am I saying it's enough? Am I saying that's enough? I also recognise that more is needed, but I am trying to keep a bit of reality in mind, in the sense that we should not do that if we decide something today, it will be settled tomorrow. That's one. Two: that the sun goes up for nothing, unfortunately also applies here. If we have found a measure that targets the households we want to hit, we must also be able to pay them with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u58	I'm sorry, but this is a debate trick. This happens all the time. You're trying to tell me you're saying the cabinet isn't doing anything. I did not say that in the previous debates. I have read back all the contributions made at that time, and I have not said that now either. I appeal to you that the cost for people is even higher and that the group is really the goat up to one and a half times and that we have to do something for that, that there are options for that. It is our choice not to ask the cabinet what is left, but to shape it itself. If I hear correctly, the VVD has walked into this debate without an idea, without a proposal on how we could do anything extra. I think that is serious, because I feel the urgency. What do people in the Netherlands who can't get by now when the VVD says: yes, we feel the urgency but we don't come up with a proposal to do something about it? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u59	We live in a world where there's an incredible amount going on. Since the war in Ukraine, all the certainties we had vibrated on their foundations. This in many ways affects our lives and the people at home and the entrepreneurs certainly in their wallets. It's super high when you have to worry at the end of the month if you can make ends meet, or if you have to decide on Sunday to leave the family visit for a while because the gas costs are so high. So I also want us to do everything we can to see what else we can do. What can we do to target those families, where the pressure at the moment is extremely high? I have said that I find that care allowance, that idea of your party and the PvdA that was in the "head over water" package, as I think it is called by my head, an option that we should look seriously at. I did add: do we also hit the middle incomes? A number of things have now been done, such as VAT and excise duties, and they are still going on this year. My question to the cabinet is whether something extra could possibly be done, paid out of these additional VAT revenues that are now available. That would be one of my questions, ideas. That is the willingness I have shown, and I think we should all show it here. At the end of the debate, we need to see where we can find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mrs Hermans knows that I always appreciate her open attitude and usually embrace it in debates, but I still have trouble with what is happening here. It is not a new proposal. You ask questions about the familiar road. We know what the surcharge limits are. We know this helps middle income. We know that when it comes to the care allowance in relation to a family income of €40,000, so about modal, you can help these people with that. Those answers are already there. We talk so often here about the confidence that people should be able to talk about in politics. Then they should also know that there are people here who know what they are talking about and who do not kick in open doors towards the cabinet and ask for the familiar road. You know it or should know it. This is a very targeted measure. We can help people. It's two billion dollars. There are two questions that we need to answer. It's got execution risks. Are we willing to take those risks? The second is whether we are prepared to pay around EUR 2 billion for this. That's it! We've been talking about this since spring. This isn't something we came up with last week. Since spring! Then I expect the largest party in the Netherlands not to say: interesting, we're going to look at it. You should have looked at it by now. You should have said here "we're going to do this" or "we're not going to do this." Or you'll come back with interesting questions about something that might still be complicated. But what you're doing now is kicking in open doors, because you already know all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u61	I really disagree fundamentally with Mr Klaver. Yes, this proposal also came through in the spring. At that time, the cabinet made choices to do things with VAT and excise duties. Now we are faced with the question of whether we are still prepared to do something extra. Then I say that I don't think that care allowance is a crazy, weird idea at all. I have questions about that. I have prepared it for your input and for Mrs. Kuik's. That's what I'm gonna do. I have a few questions for the cabinet myself. At the end of the day, we are drawing up the balance sheet here where we see a majority in order to be able to do something targeted for the people in whom the pressure is high and also with funding, a cover, with which we can all live.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr Dassen and then Mr Eerdmans. You can just walk to the interrupt microphone yourself. You don't have to wait until I give you the floor. Mr. Dassen will be the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u63	"Put everything on top of everything," that's what I hear a few times now with Mrs Hermans. A crisis also calls for solidarity. In other countries, they have looked at it better. In Italy, Spain, the UK, but also in Belgium and Romania, they are looking at a windfall tax. I understand very well that Mrs Hermans says: we cannot have everything arranged tomorrow. That's why we should have started doing this months ago. Volt also asked the cabinet to see if such a windfall tax, such a windfall tax, would also work in the Netherlands. The answer has been postponed, so we do not have an answer yet. I'm also curious to see what's going to come from the cabinet. It's gonna have to be arranged very quickly. We saw it at the corona crisis. Then there were companies, pharmaceutical companies, which profited enormously, while other companies had to be compensated. Now we see it again. Vulnerable households can't make ends meet. Mr. Wilders just made a big move. These could be compensated by the windfall levy of large energy and raw materials companies. If we agree on this and again face such a crisis in the future, does Mrs Hermans agree with me that the cabinet should continue to work today to create a legal basis in the Tax Plan 2023 in order to ensure that, if we are in a crisis, we can act immediately and not be delayed again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u64	In response to Mrs Marijnissen's question, I indicated how I look at the solidarity levy. I do not reject it in advance, but I do have a lot of questions. You're asking me right now if we can put it in the law. My answer to that is really no. I would first like to get some answers from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u65	That's not exactly what I'm asking. I am asking whether we can create a basis so that we can settle it in due course at the time we would like to do so, so that we do not get behind the facts again and then have to wait for it again. If we want that in the Tax Plan 2023, then we have to start doing so today, we have been given back. Otherwise it is simply not feasible anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u66	Then Mr Dassen asks me whether I am prepared to put it into the law and therefore be prepared to use the instrument? I absolutely do not reject it in advance, but I just have a few questions. I'd like to know a few things about the cabinet before I say if I think it's a good idea at all. If the answer to that is yes, we can see what to do in the law. Now things are done in the opposite order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u67	That is precisely not the case, because we want to ensure that this basis exists, so that, if Mrs Hermans agrees, it can be implemented immediately. We can't figure that out right now. I am also curious to see how Mrs Hermans is looking at the plan to use the amount that we could possibly raise to compensate people very specifically through a doubling of the healthcare allowance. As a result, the people who need it most are compensated with a very targeted approach. So we do not have the generic measures that the CPB also says are not effective and effective, but we are helping those vulnerable households.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u68	The question about the healthcare allowance and that option were also given to me by Mrs Kuik and Mr Klaver. I have said that I can imagine that route. The question remains for me whether this will also affect the middle incomes, the middle groups, who are now really feeling the blows of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u69	I heard Mrs Hermans talk about the war in Ukraine in her contribution. In the perspective of that war, we had the highest petrol price in the world, except for Hong Kong, I believe. And before the war, the Rutte cabinet increased VAT. I don't think we're going to use the war as a condain for the policy that lies underneath. I'm glad you admitted that somewhat reluctantly. But the heart of this debate is not affected. The core point is that we have artificially made prices in the Netherlands as high, because in a gas tank you pay half to Mrs Kaag's state treasury, because you know that half of the energy tax also goes to the government. In short, our system is perverse. We're carrying too much. It is precisely in a time of need, as it is now felt, and the desire to improve purchasing power, that my question is to Mrs Hermans: does the VVD accept that we should put the knife much more heavily into these payments? People with a shopping cart still pay so much VAT. We have proposed bringing VAT to zero in times of crisis. In times of crisis, you have to help people. Did this message land at the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u70	On the way to this debate, I have seen many proposals come across and I have heard ideas about what you can do to tackle the purchasing power problems. We just talked about a route through the care allowance. VAT and excise duties are also examples of this. The cabinet has already taken steps on this in April. I am basically willing to look at a lot of variants and proposals, but at the end of the day it also comes to the question of how we pay it. And that's what we're very different about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u71	I don't think so, actually. I think we're closer to each other than you and Mr. Paternotte at that point. It has become clear to me many times that D66 is wearing the pants in the cabinet, unfortunately. That has to change. If you look at the billions in the Green Grabbelton of D66, as we would call it, you could indeed follow the German proposal, for example, by lowering excise duties and VAT on the litre price at the pump much further. That saves you €25 on a full tank. The pump holders also want this in the Netherlands. It is a pity that the choice goes to an ever-changing climate policy with no effect, above the cost of the people who are dependent on a car, have to drive to work and, thanks to your policy, half of the litre price simply have to be paid to the State. Isn't that just burgers grabbing? That's not social policy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u72	Somewhere in the middle of Mr Eerdmans' long speech is exactly the difference between his party and mine. It is about the importance and value of the climate. The climate problem must be solved and the nitrogen problem must also be solved. And yes, this cabinet invests heavily in that. It is incredibly important to solve the problem in nature that we have with nitrogen and to solve the problem we have with the climate. Let's make sure we pass this country on cleanly to future generations. A second, very important reason has been added. With the war in Ukraine, we see that we must become independent of Russia as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u73	The big difference is that you want to adapt the climate, the world temperature, and that we want to adapt to the climate. That's JA21. Climate realism is what you call it. And we do not want to fill the whole grabbelton with billions of dollars for an effect that China will undo in a few hours. We do not want to fill the whole country with wind turbines, etc. and so on. We are quite different in that respect. I think you think it's a waste of money in your heart, too, because that's how I remember the VVD. But you sit on your lap at D66 and pay the price for that. That is very sad, because we believe that this is a price that should not be paid. It is at the expense of those appointed by the left-wing parties and by Mr Wilders' contribution. Sure, those people won't be in sight by the end of the week. You should care much more about that. For the record, we also care about the climate, but not about spending useless billions on a bottomless well. There's the big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u74	It is completely unrealistic to think that you can solve the climate problem with adaptation. Realism is that you have to do a lot of things at the same time: wind energy, solar energy, adaptation, yes, we have to look at that as well as nuclear energy. I know that Mr Eerdmans is in favour of this. His party thinks it's solved with nuclear energy alone. That seems a little unrealistic to me. I believe that we have a neat and balanced package to achieve that huge climate target that we have, and which we support 100%, in a way that is a bit affordable for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr Van Raan and then Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u76	I think it is a gain that Mrs Hermans of the VVD says that certain system features, some system characteristics, are outdated. We come from a period of many private profits, withdrawal of public value and indeed flowing to it. That's profit. In any case, this is an acknowledgement that a change in the system may be necessary, something that my group chairman often says. I share Mr Azar's analysis that the differences have become too great. But it's also about not using the resources you need later to solve the other problem, the climate crisis. Mrs Hermans has already mentioned it herself. Some of the problems that have now arisen from these system problems are going to be solved by getting money from the Climate Fund. In the spring note, the theorem is written "we keep the goals intact with less money." Then you need to work more efficiently. That's the cabinet line. This also means that you have to put harder standards, have better legislation, better enforcement, more savings. My question is: does Mrs Hermans agree with the Animal Party that we should work on this? Do I find Mrs Hermans by my side if we are going to make proposals for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u77	With the whole package of measures now before us, there was also a major financial challenge to cover expenditure. For this we have had to carry out a number of burdens, unfortunately but understandable in the big story. We also looked at the expenses. As I said at the beginning of my contribution, that is always painful and difficult. Yes, we also looked at the funds, including the Climate Fund. In the conviction of the VVD, with the amount that we are getting from the Climate Fund, we can contribute to those other major tasks that are also there. There is now no need to continue to standardize or price. We are, of course, monitoring whether we are achieving the goals, the stated ambitions, because we have agreed on them. They must not be put under any further pressure. In the further implementation of climate policy, we will have to keep a close eye on whether the package of measures we have now agreed on, combined with the money that is available to achieve these objectives, remains on the path.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u78	That sounds weird. It's hard to explain, too. Perhaps Mrs Hermans should do it again. We've set those targets. Mrs Hermans says that we have a package and funding for that. You're taking away part of that funding from a package that may not yet be fully calculated at five decimal places, as the Prime Minister says. But you're taking a risk by reducing the amount. Is Mrs Hermans, in order to reduce that risk and therefore not to gamble with the future, prepared, for example, to tighten up the standards or to maintain more on the obligation to save money, that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u79	There is one measure which Mr Jetten has announced to the Chamber in relation to getting a little money out of the fund. I must confess that I am no longer keen on what this measure is. One measure has been taken. If you appreciate that, I would like to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u80	The SGP welcomes Mrs Hermans' statement that the 2% of GDP spent on Defence, so that defence investments are finally in order, is a highlight for the VVD. That really did us good. I would say: let's put our backs to it so that we don't have to go back there someday. Let's hold it. That's not what my question is about. My question is about the subject that is also such a puzzle for Mrs Hermans: how do we give the middle class, the middle income, that support in the back to be able to live a little bit normal? I've been puzzled on that for weeks. Finally yesterday I thought: I think the most simple and the most certain way is to lower the first tax disc. It runs to €69,000. Then you've got the low incomes too, just the group you want. My specific question is: would that also be a solution for Mrs Hermans and the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u81	I think it's no surprise that the VVD really likes it, as I said just now about the burden on labour, if you can do something about the rates for that disc. At the same time, I said that everything we want to do here to reduce burdens and reduce purchasing power pressure costs money. This certainly applies to Mr Stoffer's proposal. That's a big deal. It comes back to the question of how we're gonna pay for that. I have said it a few times, but of course there are differences of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u82	I can imagine. I like to hear that this solution is at least there. I learned from the Secretary of State who's in the business this year that if you do something good and positive for the people, you can do it retroactively. This could therefore be done by 1 January of this year. We're gonna have to watch the cover with each other. I'd like to take on that challenge. We can, of course, catch them by looking at whether we can do something with a number of tax rebates and so on. If we want to meet that challenge, I would like to see between the first and the second term if we can work it out. We could also say: let's raise that second disc a little bit next year. I'm open to that, though I can't do it this year. I do not know whether Mrs Hermans is open to that. In times of crisis, those who can have it must be you, that is me, and that is what I think everyone here in the Chamber should have something about for those who have a middle income that we are so anxious to help. I think we have no option but this one and we should just do this. My specific question, therefore, is whether we will put our hands together and see if we can get a majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u83	I find Mr Stoffer's proposal interesting in essence. However, it is quite large and far-reaching. This isn't something you take care of from today to tomorrow. I always like to see where and how far we can get together, and whether we can find colleagues who also think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u84	First of all, I would like to say something about Mr Stoffer's interruption. The 2% limit is, of course, the lower limit and not the upper limit. It is very nice that this is now to be met, but let us consider this as a lower limit. We've never met that before. That's the first thing I want to say. My second comment is: I hear the terrible war in Ukraine constantly coming along as an excuse. I would like to know from Mrs Hermans what the effect of this war on prices was, for example, the elimination of coal power stations. That happened well before that. By closing the gas field in Groningen our dependence was increased and the gas price went up. What does that have to do with the war in Ukraine? What does opening biomass plants for many billions have to do with the war in Ukraine? What does the migration flow and the explosion of the housing market have to do with this? Mr Eerdmans has just mentioned: what does the nitrogen hoax have to do with that? All this has nothing really to do with the war in Ukraine and it all has a price increase effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u85	It's very easy to put words about the war in my mouth now. The war and what is happening in Ukraine I have used to indicate that the world has changed quite a bit since the debate on the declaration of government. Many of the examples you mention that affect climate policy or nitrogen policy are measures that have already been taken or that we have agreed on in the coalition agreement. That is because we also have a nitrogen problem to solve together and we also have a climate problem to solve together. The fact that you see that differently, and that you may deny that there is a problem, is fine with me. My group, the VVD, takes responsibility for solving these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u86	Then let's take the nitrogen problem by the head. I'm not denying the existence of nitrogen at all. Nitrogen, N, is a wonderful element. 80% of the air is nitrogen. We're going to spend 25 billion now, destroy the entire peasantry and send our food problem to the moon. That is a dramatic situation. More than half of your party has now said that we must stop doing so. There is no such thing as a nitrogen problem. If there's nitrogen oxide or nitrogen dioxide falling down on a sand flat... no, let that be my next question. What happens when nitrogen dioxide or nitrogen oxide falls down on a sand flat or a heathland?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u87	I am going to respond to what Mr Van Haga said in his introduction, namely 'we are going to destroy the whole peasantry', or words of similar intent. I'm annoyed by that kind of statement. I think that's horrible and I'm gonna stand back from it. That is in no way what is intended and what is meant by cabinet policy. On the contrary. This cabinet has said that the VVD has signed the coalition agreement, so I stand by it that we have a problem with our nitrogen emissions. This has a huge effect on our nature, which we must pass on to future generations. Addressing the problem of nitrogen is also important for the future of agriculture, because we want clean and fertile agricultural land. We are going to debate this from next week, here, but then in many places in the country. We will then have a discussion in the provinces, with everyone involved, in order to do so in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u88	This is a very emotional reaction. I do understand that, because the nitrogen problem is created by politicians and administrators who really do not understand it. So I repeat my question. We're going to spend 25 billion. The peasantry can't sleep anymore. People are already unable to pay their bills because of all the absurd levies that have been introduced in the past. My question was very simple: if nitrogen oxide, nitrogen dioxide falls down on a sand flat in a heathland, what happens then? There is no pressure from Europe or from anywhere to maintain nature reserves by reducing nitrogen emissions. Even if you wanted to, even if you found that useful, you could do so in all kinds of innovative ways, but not by buying out the farmers. So my question remains: nitrogen oxide or nitrogen dioxide falls down on a sandy plain; what happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u89	Nitrogen hits many places in the country and has incredibly violent effects on nature and thus on our water quality and on many other areas. The cabinet said that we had already made agreements with each other many years ago about nature and the state of nature in our country. We neglected it. We need to make up for that, and we need to make up for that. That's what we stand for, and that's what we're going for. We are now going to come up with an approach to achieve the goals set by this cabinet and set in the coalition agreement. We're gonna do it carefully. We talk about this with provinces and farmers. Last but not least, there may be a measure referred to by Mr Van Haga. But there are still a lot of steps ahead of that. That is what the debate is going to be about very often.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u90	I can't get an answer, so I'll give the answer myself. If nitrogen oxide deposition takes place on a sandy plain or in a heathland, which is a transitory area, then perhaps there will eventually be an oak forest. Then twigs come up and things get better. It's just nourishment. So there's no problem at all. I am surprised that 49% of the VVD voted against these motions. And I'm surprised that the VVD didn't take this opportunity to take this absurd proposal off the table. I like to see that the CDA does have the balls to pull the plug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u91	What surprises me is that I come here in a debate to talk about a major problem for the future of this country, and that you deny this and make it small with the remark: well, what difference does it make, an oak forest instead of a heathland? That is not the issue at all. It is about how we deal with nature in the Netherlands and how we pass it on to future generations. And how we will ensure that agricultural land remains fertile and clean, so that it can be used in the future, although this may happen in a different way than the way it is now. That's what the talk with the provinces is about. But we will ensure that there is also a future for the agricultural sector in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you. Mr Segers, Christian Union, and then Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u93	If Mr Van Haga doesn't mind, I'd like to talk about the Spring Note again. The subject of nitrogen will be discussed at length in the debate next week. We will talk about this very often, because it is a very big issue. Back to the spring note, anyway. The solidarity levy. I would like to take up the point made by Mr Dassen, who asked Mrs Hermans whether she would be in favour of creating such a legal basis. Now I do not know whether this is political unwillingness or whether there is a misunderstanding, which is why I ask you to clarify this. Mr Dassen's question was: would it not be good to have a legal basis, just as the United Kingdom or a country like Italy does? For example, there is a pharmaceutical company that has made a lot of profit in corona time, or a supermarket that makes a lot less when it has to be compensated elsewhere. In the event of a crisis, such a levy could be applied temporarily. It is not a question of deciding to apply this right now; it is a matter of having that means in your hand in order, if necessary, to apply it. Is the VVD Group open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u94	I said how I look at this solidarity levy. I think it is an instrument for reflection, especially in this debate, but I have also asked questions. What are the effects of such a levy in the specific situation we are facing? What does it do for the investment capacity of these companies in terms of sustainability, which we also consider so important? On the other hand, what does it do for the location climate in general? I'd like to keep an eye on that, too. I have these questions to the cabinet and I would like them answered. I am now being asked whether we are going to be able to lay it down in the law. It is not political will if I say that I think that is a step too far. I think it's politically sound and carefully testifying to your work to first get that picture sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u95	We know other countries are already applying it. I mentioned the United Kingdom and Italy, which are related countries. They think it is right, if exorbitant profits are made in extreme times by some companies and other companies are threatened with death, to intervene temporarily in order to do so. The questions are very legitimate questions, but you ask them if you want to apply them. What does it do to a company? Is it just? Is it proportional? Those are all questions you apply when you have the cure in your hands. Except we don't have that in our hands. The question is whether we shouldn't have that in our hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u96	Let me put these two questions together in the specific problem we are facing now. First of all, I would like to have an overall answer to the question as to what such a charge does for investment capacity, what it generally does for the location climate, and then, if we have an idea of it, say: should this be an instrument that is laid down in the law, so that you can apply it when a specific situation arises? But I'm not going to anticipate a law right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u97	What the VVD Group does not want, the VVD Group does not want. But what it does with the location climate depends on how long you apply it and how high you make it. These are all derivative discussions of the first discussion: do you think that this should be in the toolbox at all to use the word "re-use"? Once again: if related countries have that instrument, then I think it is very legitimate to have the discussion about what it does, whether it is justified and whether it is proportionate. But I would like it if the VVD Group had the openness to add this instrument to the toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u98	I did not say in any way that I am not prepared to think about this instrument and see if it can play a role. But now I'm being asked if we can put it in the law. I really think that's the wrong order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u99	I would like to ask Mrs Hermans how long she has the ambition to remain Mr Rutte's assistant, the bag carrier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u100	This was exactly the reason for me to say something about this on Saturday. I'm not going into it anymore. I can tell it really hits me. I don't know if you care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr. Wilders, shall we just have the debate on the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u102	I'm talking about my own words, Mr. Chairman. I didn't say anything wrong. I'm allowed to ask a question. I would like to explain it further. I still think you're...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u103	Mr. Wilders, Mrs. Hermans wants to respond. She's ready to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u104	I would very much like to respond to this. I stand here as group chairman of the VVD, with the very best intentions, to do good things for the Netherlands. That's who I am. I'll do that with an open look, with an open sight. And yes, we can differ on that, Mr. Klaver, Mrs. Kuiken, Mrs. Marijnissen and also you, Mr. Wilders. I am fine with the content of the debate, but please on the content and not on the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u105	It was a pretty bad question, by the looks of it. You're as far as I'm concerned, and I'm allowed to give my opinion, still that bag carrier and Rutte's assistant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u106	On a point of order, Mr President. This is an insult.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u107	I didn't say a wrong word. I said what I think and I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u108	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u109	I'd like to finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u110	It's okay, but after that, I'm gonna respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u111	No, I'll explain. You don't come up with one idea about what you'd like to do with people's purchasing power. You come up with zero ideas. You're only asking questions to the Prime Minister. "I have questions for the Prime Minister. Is there anything else we can do?" If you had really been a group chairman, you would have said to the Prime Minister: "Mark, Mr Prime Minister, that is enough. We stop spending those billions on nitrogen and climate. We are not going to give billions a year to asylum seekers every time. Those are the wrong priorities. We as the VVD Group do not do that. I want us to stop doing so now and spend some of it on the purchasing power of the Dutch." Then you are a leader of the political groups. What you're doing here... You're standing right here. I have no doubt you have good intentions. They were given to you. But you're just asking questions. You must correct him. You must say: no money to asylum and no money to climate. You are now abandoning our people, including the middlemen, also the people with a moral income who vote for the VVD. You are only listening to him and that is why you are Mr Rutte's bag bearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u112	I am the group chairman of the VVD. I'm making a contribution here on behalf of the VVD. I have questions for the cabinet. You want me to put your wishes, your demands, your dictation, on the cabinet. I'm not gonna do that. I refuse to get more money from the climate fund right now, because I also want to be independent of Russia. I refuse to get to the nitrogen fund now, because I want us to offer perspective to the farmers. I refuse a lot of the absurd suggestions you just made. I'm asking my own questions. I'm in charge of my own input. What I want is for all of us here to find a majority. I have long stated that you want to take responsibility for this, because then you should also take a painful measure. I would like to see whether we can come up with a few proposals by a majority in the Chamber which will enable us to do something about people's purchasing power this year. I also realize that I have to be honest and that we cannot solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you. A number of colleagues still want to respond. Mr Klaver, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u114	In this house, we have to cross swords very sharply with each other. I disagree with Mrs Hermans on a number of occasions. I look forward to continuing the debate later. But as I believe that no one here should be judged on whether his father or mother was born in the Rif Mountains or on what skin colour he has, I also think that someone here should not be judged on who his father is, whether his father has been prominent in the VVD, or on what persons he worked for in his previous career. Here is an individual who stands for her ideals and fights for them. I find the foregoing really out of bounds and I distance myself from it. I think it is important to say this, also as a member of the opposition, because I want to be able to have a tough debate without affecting personal relations and the way you deal with each other here. I find this unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u115	The other day we had a debate here about the ways in which we dealt with each other. Mr Wilders did not participate. Apparently, he didn't think that was worth it. But the Dutch do not care at all that he is trying to conduct the debate here with insults rather than really want to talk about what we can do here for Dutch people. So I'm distancing myself from that, too. I would also like to say that in this debate, let us not participate in insults. If that's what you need, please sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u116	I'd like to join in on that. The debate on forms of communication was about the fact that we should not have the debate in this way. First of all, Mr Wilders' allegations are unjustified. In addition, in general it's just... I hear Mr Wilders saying'very rightly'. If Mr. Wilders was really a guy, he'd be standing here. Then he would apologize and say that it does not matter to play the man or the woman in this debate. Then he himself would conduct the debate in a more dignified manner. This is not a pass and it is quite wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u117	We are going to continue the debate again, on the substance. Mrs Hermans has the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr President, I will continue my speech in this way. I had been in a zoom session with a school class for a few months, in preparation for the debate on the forms of communication. One of the students in that class said to me, "I didn't know grown people could fight so ugly with each other." I think I said this in the debate at the time. I hope that school class isn't watching now and seeing what happens. I hope there aren't boys and girls in that class who think: I'm just gonna let that politics sit, because it's just about each other and they're fighting there instead of doing the good stuff. If that class is watching right now, then here's what I'm gonna say. I am also saying this to the people in the public gallery and other people who are watching. I'm standing here, and with me a lot of colleagues... Thank you for the words just at the interrupt microphone. We are all here to work out our ideals and convince ourselves to do the right thing for this country. And yes, we disagree with each other all the time. We have to debate this very hard. We are not sugar and can really say something about that. But I do draw a line where it becomes personal and personal insult. Now it struck me, but I often hear it from other colleagues, and I will continue to fight it with my hands and my teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr. Chairman. I've said a lot about purchasing power. Purchasing power repair is also an important issue for the VVD this year. The cabinet has eased the pain with a number of measures, but it is certainly not gone. In fact, it's getting hotter. We have already talked about the CPB report, which shows that more and more households are getting into trouble, not only the lowest incomes, but also the average households. Teachers, police officers, dental assistants and construction workers: the very ordinary middle groups. So this shows how big the consequences are and then politics cannot remain on its hands. I sometimes hear the cabinet say: we cannot compensate for everything. And that's right. That's not a nice message, but it's the honest message. But I am saying that this cannot be the end of the discussion. "We can't compensate for everything" shouldn't be the reason to sit on your hands. It must be an incentive to do everything possible. A number of options and variants have already passed. I would like to add a few more questions. How does the government guarantee that the VAT and excise duty reductions will really work through prices and not stick with an energy company or the service stations? How do we ensure that employers will actually pay those higher travel expenses? How does the Cabinet monitor this? And how can we make sure that this kind of action reaches the middle groups? Are there any buttons left to turn on? I know that colleagues find this question annoying, but I'm making him aware. When we talked about the Spring Paper and had just agreed on that purchasing power package from April, I saw no more options and options. So my question is real: have any new ideas emerged from the cabinet in the period after that and if so, what are they? The idea of care allowance, I will just mention it once again, is one that we really want to look at with an open mind. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go through my lines a little bit, because I've said a lot of things during interruptions. These are important questions about purchasing power, because that high inflation and the effects of the war are not just gone. We're gonna have to keep looking at how we're gonna protect those middle groups and how we're gonna make them stronger. For that, we will have to open all registers. That is why I was surprised when I read last week that employers and employees want to think with the cabinet about ways of improving purchasing power and making work more rewarding, but that these talks so far do not seem to be getting off the ground. As far as my group is concerned, we cannot start serious discussions with the social partners soon enough. With the employers we have to talk about higher wages, the cabinet is about making work more rewarding, and with the unions we have to talk about how we can work more hours. Because the situation we are facing is large and complex, and this requires cooperation here in politics, but also between cabinet, employers and trade unions. We all have a role to play in reducing financial pressure on people at home and the VVD would like the cabinet to discuss this seriously. I'd like a response to that. Mr. Chairman. A lot to do, a lot to do. As far as my group is concerned, that is the best way to describe this Spring paper. The Netherlands is becoming safer, but we need to continue to strengthen the people in the Netherlands, we need to strengthen the middle groups and SMEs, for their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u120	Thank you, Mrs Hermans. There is another interruption by Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u121	I've been listening and I can't hear anything. I can't hear anything! You contribute zero point zero with your contribution! We can talk about manners here. I do not care at all, because I stand here to stand up for the people in the Netherlands, who can no longer pay their groceries, who can no longer pay their energy bills, who stand at the pharmacy and do not receive their medicines because they cannot pay the additional payment. Not a word from the VVD! Nothing at all! Have you not now noticed, Mrs Hermans, that your contribution to the purchasing power of Dutch people is a very big zero, that you have really shown nothing that is of benefit to people today, this year? You've asked questions and asked a few more questions. You didn't make one of your own proposals. Nothing at all! When it comes to nitrogen, when it comes to climate, when it comes to all those asylum seekers entering, you all have such a big mouth, but when it comes to what we are doing for people now: a very big zero. May I ask, what would you call that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u122	I disagree with Mr Wilders' reaction to my speech. I've asked a lot of questions. In response to interruptions, I indicated how we look at some of the proposals before us. I have expressed the ambition that we too would very much like to do something for purchasing power this year, which we certainly should look at next year, but we are talking about this year. That is what we are debating today. I look forward to the conclusions that we can draw together at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u123	I want to hear from the VVD what they're up to. What do we have to ask Mr Rutte? Stop asking Mr Rutte! What are your own ideas? In other words, what do you say to the 93-year-old gentleman I mentioned, who still has €25 a week to shop? €25 a week, sir of 93. What are you saying to the other gentleman who had to go home? People should be ashamed of themselves in this country, and you too, because when he's in his 70s, he had to go home and not get his meds because he couldn't afford them, didn't have the money? What do you say to these people? What's your message to these people? That you asked Rutte a question? Is that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u124	I tell those people that it's an incredibly hard time, that it's incredibly intense what's happening and that if you're actually at the pharmacy and you don't get your medicine, I can't even begin to imagine what that means. All I do know is that it's up to me, all of us here, to do our stinking best to come up with a solution. We can't take away the whole problem. I really have to be honest about that, because you pretend that every payment problem has been solved with a measure. The problems are now so great that they are not. We all have a responsibility here to see where we can find a majority to do something for those people. That's what I'm standing here for, and that was my input. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u125	Finally. You have given zero solutions to this. What do you say to the lady in home care who experiences that people, if it gets any fresher outside, are in bed with a scarf every other day? What do you say to the person who had to put his pet, whom he loved very much, to sleep because, when the animal was sick, he had no money for the vet? What do you say to the older lady who says she needs to add her detergent with water to do twice as long with it? You don't have one, zero point zero solutions for that. You are a very big zero when it comes to purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u126	Well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u127	I say to these people exactly what I say to the people from Mr Wilders' first example. What I also say to these people is that when you are in politics, you also have to take responsibility and sometimes you have to take painful and difficult measures. What Mr Wilders is doing here is calling all measures that sound very nice for the stage, which are very easy, which are very simple. But the world's a little more complicated than that. We have to tell that honest truth to people, too. That is the responsibility I take, along with a lot of parties here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u128	We have been talking for a very long time about the people who can't afford it anymore, for whom the VVD has done virtually nothing in the last 12 years. But I haven't heard anything about Dutch business, apart from a reaction to an interruption. Then something like: yes, we are thinking positively about a solidarity levy. Then I think: we have two million entrepreneurs. They are cut and shaved by this cabinet in corona time. The water is on their lips. Those entrepreneurs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Business is running out of water. I am not just talking about farmers, because they are far worse. What does the VVD have in store for the Dutch business community and for all those entrepreneurs who are watching this debate and thinking "I am indeed going abroad"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u129	That is exactly my response to the solidarity levy. That is exactly my little debate with Mr Segers. I would like to look at measures of this kind to see what the impact is on entrepreneurs. Because, yes, there are companies, there are entrepreneurs who are now making money from the terrible situation that we are in, but there are also a lot of people who are taking extra blows and are also trying to scratch up after the corona crisis. That is exactly why I am not just going to pour out a tax on business.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr Van Haga, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u131	The last one again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u132	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u133	Then I can go home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u134	The cabinet's still coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u135	Or that was my last question. That would be very annoying, but okay. 200,000 companies are now falling down and are technically bankrupt, while we have heard all the time in the corona time: no, Dutch business is doing fantastic. The employees are all gone because the poverty trap is not solved by the VVD. It's not attractive to come from the bank, stop netflixing and start working in a low-paid job because you just have less net left. So the Dutch business community has a very big problem, and you can't solve it by giving a cigar out of its own box and the companies that happen to make it pay a little better for the companies that need it. No, we have to do something structuralally about our locational environment, about our tax environment, so that entrepreneurs can undertake, business flourishes, more tax money comes in and the Netherlands becomes a good country again. But in the last 12 years, we've seen the opposite and we've slipped. We're going downhill now and Dutch business is going to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u136	That's exactly why for the VVD the stake is that working should pay off, exactly for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u137	Then I would like to thank Mrs Hermans. I shall suspend the sitting for a single moment and then we shall move on to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u138	I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen of the SP for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet enlarges the division. Over the next few minutes, I will try to explain why we see it that way, and I will put our story and our alternative proposals to that effect. I do this on the basis of purchasing power, climate and the public sector. I'd like to start with purchasing power. As far as we are concerned, that is the most important issue in this debate today. The cost for people has to be reduced. The power bill goes through the roof. Tanking, shopping, it's just not payable anymore. At the same time, we see that the big companies are making huge profits. So that's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Those profits are already at the level of 2019, which was really a top year. The cabinet thus increases the division by not increasing the income tax and using that money to directly reduce the costs for people. We are here today to talk about the Spring Paper, as it is called in The Hague. So there's nothing extra in that to do something about reducing the costs for people now. The tax system that we know in the Netherlands is a paradise for super rich people with great wealth and a hell for workers. That sentence could easily come out of the SP election program, but it won't. It's from a Rabobank economist. I heard him say that last week. He's right, of course. Oxfam calculated that the 2,120 richest Dutch people are really talking about a very small group of super rich people who have more power than the 10 million poorest Dutch people. So that's super scoopy. That's very unfair. For example, we are proposing to ensure a decent capital tax. The Cabinet doesn't. That's what they leave behind. Increase the tax on profits for the companies with which it goes well, who can suffer it. Give that money to people to cut costs. This can be done very concretely, for example by reducing the energy bill. We would say: do the rate on the energy tax on gas to zero. Also think of freezing the rents. That happened last year, but not this year. We find it incomprehensible that the rents are going up again on 1 July. They need to be frozen as soon as possible. I also mention the cost of refueling. People are scared to death these days when they're at the pump. Oil companies, on the other hand, make huge profits. Ensure a decent tax on this and use it to reduce excise duties. Mr. Chairman. Then the climate. The climate policy also shows that the cabinet increases the division in the Netherlands. If you know that the ten biggest polluters in the Netherlands pollute and emit far more than all Dutch households put together, then "a better environment starts with yourself" is really nonsense. We do see that the government in the climate fund is spending billions on subsidies to large companies to become cleaner. Why doesn't the cabinet say to these big companies, "put in your profits for that; don't divide profits among the shareholders this year, but put them in cleaner production"? That's a question to the cabinet. On the other hand, the cabinet chooses to say that people should only take out a loan individually for a heat pump. That is not the way, at least not with regard to the SP Group. The whole climate story goes through generations. That's not something you have to do individually. That is something we will have to do together. So we say: come up with a national isolation plan. Go together to make sure the houses are isolated. Start with the worst isolated houses. That also affects people's energy bill. It can be lowered. Go lay solar panels on the roofs that are suitable for this purpose. But also something like the flight tax, which is proposed by the cabinet. Remember that 8% of kites are responsible for 40% of flights. That's huge. Those are the so-called multi-flyers. We think it is much more efficient, including for the climate, to burden them. That's a lot more honest, too. So don't do a fly tax that hits whoever wants to take the plane on vacation once a year. It has to pay extra. No, no, no, no, no, no. Come with a multi-flyer pole. It hits the business pilots that fly all over the world every six months. Make that extra pay. So do not increase the division, but ensure climate justice. Mr. Chairman. The public sector: care, education, safety. You may also hear the commercials on the radio with "If you also want the best education for your child, choose private education." Every time I hear these ads, I think: who doesn't want that, who doesn't want the best education for his child; we all want that? The Education Council warns us and says: pay attention, the number of private schools and private tutoring is increasing. That is very nice for the children who need it and have those parents who can afford it, but it is very doubtful whether the children who need it will get it. Probably not. In healthcare we see the same development. It can cause serious problems if, for example, you can't go to the nursing home because you're on the waiting list there. But if you have money, you can often arrange an excellent care farm for your dementia parents where they can go right away and where there are sufficient staff. This cabinet announces hundreds of millions of cuts in nursing homes. So we shouldn't do that. We say: there really must be both a financial and a moral revaluation of our public sector, of our care, of our education, of our security. Finally, Mr President. Of course, these things don't just fall out of the sky. This is not a natural phenomenon. In more and more places in society, it's stuck, whether it's the housing shortage, whether it's that fewer and fewer people have faith in the government, whether it's the division I named. That has everything to do with the fact that we have a cabinet that still adheres to capitalist principles. As long as it stays that way, ordinary people will always draw the short straw. So, as far as we are concerned, that has to change. All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. Today our public gallery is full of public transport staff. I mentioned a lot of groups of people who are in uncertainty. This group is one of them. There are countless reasons why it is absolutely important to invest in good public transport. I call on the Cabinet to give these people today the clarity they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Then we're gonna listen to Mr. Paternotte...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u141	I would like to ask the people in the public gallery not to make any receptive or objectionable noises, because that influences the debate again. Thank you. I call Mr Paternotte, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u142	Moreover, I think it would be a good idea for the cabinet to deal with the concerns of the people in the gallery. Mr. Chairman. Rarely in history has a political generation experienced such an urgent moment. When we kicked off the cabinet period here in January, we still walked through the building with masks and there was peace in Europe. Since that time Putin has invaded Ukraine, tens of thousands of Ukrainians have died, millions have fled and, fortunately, tens of thousands have been taken in here. We have imposed historical sanctions on Russia. We did that while it hurt ourselves because we wanted to hit the tyranny. These sanctions, these high energy prices, inflation and the shortage of labour have increased prices and made it more difficult for people to pay the energy bill and to handle the grocery bill. If I look at what the Cabinet has shown with the Spring Note and how we are talking about it here in the Chamber, I can see that the time has come to take the right steps. For EUR 2 billion extra, over EUR 2 billion, for the defence sector, with which we also meet NATO standards, is urgently needed, because we need to be able to guarantee security in Europe, because we need to be able to build the European armed forces, but also because we need to supply them. There were parties here that said, "Don't do that; don't deliver those weapons. No extra money for the DOD. That's oil on the fire." But in Kiev, Chernihiv, Charkiv and Mykolajiv the Ukrainians walk free and safe on the street again. Refugees could return because they were stronger there with Western help than the Russians. Then my question is: can arms supplies also be speeded up? Because the Ukrainians will need more. The cabinet has taken a lot of steps. The minimum wage has been increased. And honor who deserves credit: the link to the AOW has presented several opposition parties, the PvdA, GroenLinks, JA21, here. €800 for the 800,000 households that have the least to spend. The fuel taxes are down. The cost of travel up. And there were all kinds of other steps to improve purchasing power. This has been done mainly by asking for more than 2 billion, the largest contribution, to those who are best able to spare it at the moment, the big shareholders, the big companies and the wealthy. And let us be honest: also by getting money from the climate fund and the nitrogen fund, but without compromising the objectives of nitrogen policy and climate policy. Mr. Chairman. The question is, of course, is that enough? If I'm honest, when I look at what's happening in the Netherlands, the stories that we've heard here, but also the possible black scenarios that the CPB is sketching for the coming period, I don't think it's likely to be enough. My appeal to the cabinet is therefore to get to work on that this summer. I am thinking in particular of young people and students, who have so far been very often excluded from the support measures, who were not eligible for them. I also understand the reasons for this, but they have, of course, just as well dealt with higher energy prices and the fact that they have to pay more for their messages. So more will be needed. I'm gonna say something about it in a minute. At the same time, I also understand that we cannot compensate for everything. We have to be honest about that, too. We spent a long time in the Netherlands on a holiday from world history. That vacation's gonna be over. In the corona time we have compensated a lot from the idea that there was a dot on the horizon, that we could come out with vaccines and that everything would be back to normal. But the self-evidentness of freedom and peace in Europe is not coming back for the time being. Low energy prices aren't coming back for a while. You can't keep people from it endlessly. It is important that we be honest about this and acknowledge it. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore very important that we ensure that we can earn more in the Netherlands. In this debate it is a lot about purchasing power, about spending money. That's very understandable, because so many people are having a hard time. But if we do not do something about the fundamental problems in our economy, then we will not get out either. Then we will not give people the chance to earn more, to make sure they have more money themselves. The biggest problem we now have in the Netherlands is the shortage of the labour market in the economy. 133 vacancies for every 100 people looking for a job. 500,000 vacancies open. All you have to do is walk into a store or you'll see the ads screaming for new colleagues. Parents and children sitting at home because there are too few people in childcare. I would like to put three proposals to the cabinet to show the political courage to tackle this structuralally. First of all, lower taxes. It is a good thing that the cabinet said in the spring note: we are going to start looking at wealth inequality. That inequality is very great. All over the world, if we are in 2030 and there is no intervention, then two thirds of the money in the world is in 1% of the world's population. So my call would be: take on that power inequality and do so also by significantly increasing the burden on power so that you also free up a lot of money to reduce the burden on people who work. This also makes it much more attractive to enter the labour market. Two, make sure people work more hours. The Netherlands is currently the part-time champion of Europe. It's nice that people can make that choice often, but we'll need people to make more hours to fill those vacancies. So do something about it. Make sure that we can come up with these almost free childcare services on time and quickly, because that is often a reason why people do not enter the labour market. And give people a good incentive. Reward them if they want to make more hours, for example with full-time bonuses in childcare, education and care. Is that what the cabinet wants to do? Three: it may seem like a political taboo here, but we will also need labour migration. I liked the fact that the Minister for Social Affairs said that she wanted to work on this in a positive way, but it seems that many parties say that this is not necessary at all, while every economist acknowledges that we are not going to make it without labour migration, even if many people are going to work more hours. The European Commission has good plans for this. A country like Spain is now making agreements with countries on how to get people into the country who can help with temporary labour migration and who can then return with the knowledge gained. With the nitrogen crisis, the cabinet has shown that it has the political courage to take difficult decisions and to defend them. So my appeal would be: let us not linger and stall endlessly; but if we know that we will need labour migration, let us work positively on the proposals made by the European Commission. Mr. Chairman. People are going to help and work hard on it this summer, on top of all the purchasing power measures we already have, and make sure that we can strengthen the economy. That is all important and I hope that we can do it with respect in this debate and in the coming period too, because the conversation starts today but that is certainly not over. There are plenty of countries in the world that, now that it is difficult, have a policy of only hard against each other. I hope that once in a while we can still find each other in that beautiful primal-Dutch circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u143	You're at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u144	Uh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u145	Okay. It seemed like a doubt, but you're going over it. Mrs. Kuik, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u146	Nice reflections, nice observations. I would like to go back to the Spring paper, because we can do something now. You're right to say, "Don't slow down and don't slow down." So what proposals can we now expect from D66 for those 1.2 million households that are young people but also others who are in trouble right now and what we can make the difference for now? That is what we can now deal with in the Spring paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u147	I think we should know from the cabinet what's left this year. Mrs Kuik said just now: you did indeed do a lot, but it was unfocused. That was also the CPB's criticism. And that's right. Because we've done a lot of things. I call it lowering the petrol tax. As of 1 July, i.e. in two weeks, VAT on energy will go down from 21 to 9%. We have increased the cost of travel that we are accelerating. We have the minimum wage that we're going to accelerate next year. But the CPB says about a number of purchasing power measures that it is unfocused, i.e. that it ends up too much for people who do not need this support so badly. While the problem is in it, you can also see that in the scenarios you referred to yourself, there are a lot of Dutch people who have no money left at the end of the month and that you have to make sure that it gets there. When it comes to the question of what we're gonna do in the next two weeks, it's gonna have to be targeted. We must use the support for those who most need this support. This may require a little more work than we did earlier this year, but I have put forward ideas for that. First of all, what I just said, lower taxes. I think that's something you and I should be able to find each other on quickly, by increasing the burden on power and reducing the burden on people who work. I find this solidarity levy, the windfall tax, very interesting, Mr Dassen. Not only interesting, I think that's a good idea, too, if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u148	I'm getting a list of what's been done. At the same time we already knew in January that the energy bill had gone up by €1,300. I have acknowledged that a number of things have been done, but that this is not enough to help the people who are getting in trouble now, the people who are going to be in the cold right now. Then I expect Mr Paternotte not only to give us good consideration, but also to say: we are going to do this now, and we can do that with this Spring paper. So before the summer, not in the summer, not after the summer, not in the next spring, now. What proposals can I expect from Mr Paternotte? Or let me turn it around, we have proposed some very targeted measures. You've been able to learn about it. You've done your homework. Which ones are you going to support and which proposals are you going to put on the table yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u149	I believe that one of your proposals was an autumn allowance. I don't know if that's what you mean by "before the summer" exactly. I found that interesting, because you looked at what you can do with the care allowance to make sure that those people get extra money, and at the same time by saying: everyone who gets the care allowance receives €500, of which about three quarters do not end up with the people who need it most in the CPB calculations. So that's not entirely targeted either. That's what I'm saying: yes, let's look at that. Perhaps that can be a very good instrument, perhaps it will also be feasible in the autumn. I want to know, but I do think that my priority will be to use that kind of support for the people who really need it because otherwise they won't live.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u150	Thank you. Last question, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u151	I conclude that I find it extremely disappointing. We said in the autumn: it is too little, it is too unfocused. We said in spring, you have to do more now. We come up with concrete proposals, and instead of Mr Paternotte indicating what he wants, or saying 'I can support this', he is going to be complicated and distorted. The cabinet is already doing that. I do not need Mr Paternotte for that. I'm looking for an ally in him to solve problems that are going to arise acutely, already in the summer and in the autumn with 1.2 million families. First, I have Mrs Hermans waving everything away to the cabinet, now I have Mr Paternotte waving everything away to the cabinet. Where has dualism gone, where are the concrete solutions, now and today, and not sometime in the autumn? That is really too late, you cannot explain it to the people who are getting into trouble now, not to the people in the public gallery you started with and not to the people at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr President, I find this too easy and I also think that Mrs Kuik really knows better, who has been Vice-President of a party that was in the cabinet for many years. She knows you can't say now: we're going to raise the minimum wage in a week and a half. Or: we're gonna freeze all the rents everywhere in a week and a half. It can't be. The times we have said: we are going to try it, it has often gone wrong or the money has been spent unfocused or has ended up with people who do not need it. That is the criticism I have heard from Mr Nijboer about, for example, the excise duty on petrol. I understand that criticism, but then Mrs Kuik would not have to say here now 'I still want to see all kinds of major shifts within a week and a half', when a lot has happened this year, just things that the Labour Party itself has asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u153	I shall begin by saying that I recognize what Mrs Kuik says, not in what Mr Paternotte says, that that support was unfocused given. It turns out to be super-focused: those who make the most money use it. It would be a credit to Mr Paternotte if he recognized that, because then you could actually do business. If you're delivering a misrepresentation of business, it's hard to do business. That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u154	All kinds of proposals are coming along here. It's true, if you make things cheaper that people who have the most money use most, then that makes them the most. But the €800 we now give to the 800,000 households that have the least to spend is, of course, very targeted. You are quite right that, of course, reducing the excise duty on petrol also falls to a very large extent on people who do not need it. That is precisely why I say: I want targeted measures from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u155	That's good to hear and to have this cleared up. And of course, that €800 is indeed good. My second question concerns the following. Mr Paternotte rightly outlines the problems we have with the system: far too high taxes on labour, far too little taxes on capital, far too little taxes on pollution. What triggered me was that he said that people need to work more, have to work more hours. I would like to tempt him to include that in the system criticism. That is not necessary at all. In the 1930s Keynes had already calculated that with the then labour productivity and the need for a good life a 30-hour working week was enough. We now strive for more and more hours, hours, hours. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that in his systemic criticism there should also be a place for thinking about changing the way society is organised and, for example, we should look at what we actually produce and what kind of pointless jobs we actually have in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u156	Let us just note that the average that people are now working on the labour market is not that far off from those 30 hours. In addition, there are quite some reasons to say that the 1930s were not the most attractive period. We are currently facing a huge challenge to achieve the climate transition. There are too few people to install those heat pumps, to put down those solar panels, which is precisely the solution to high gas prices, high energy prices and climate change. We're gonna need people to do that. Why do we think it is so important that we have almost free childcare in the coalition agreement? Because we want women in the Netherlands to have a much greater chance of saying: I do not want to work for three days because that is useful, but I also want to be able to work for four days, because then I can also make a career. There are a lot of things I can mention in that regard that we want to do extra over the next few years, but we do need people to do that. That will also mean that we have to get it done that we can seduce people to work more hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u157	Mr Van Raan, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u158	I see that I have not tempted Mr Paternotte to think fundamentally about what a good economy looks like. We are still in full swing, Mr Paternotte is also in a cabinet that goes along with it in a kind of fossil reflex, in a fossil death struggle, that all these jobs must be maintained. There are plenty of people, but they're in the wrong place. They're in the fossil industry. They're in aviation that has to shrink. They may be in agriculture, where we really have to go through a very necessary transition. You have to think about that, and then you have to think about what a good economy is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u159	If you say to all the people in agriculture that the cabinet pays too little attention to the necessary transition there, then I do not think everyone will recognize themselves there. I think we share the urgency of the climate forecast. We also need to tackle the nitrogen crisis. But we must also continue to recognise that this has consequences for a lot of people in the Netherlands and that you have to do it in such a way that people do not fail. So we're on the same side. We're gonna have to do it real fast. We will need the people to ensure that it can also be affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u160	Mr Paternotte made a plea for labour migration. That was very short and powerful, but there is more to be said about it. This may be due to the five minutes' speaking time, but I would like to invite him to say a little more about it. I am not necessarily against labour migration, but we still have a million people in the Netherlands who are on the sidelines. We have wages that stay artificially low by bringing labour migrants here. The following argument will certainly appeal to the D66 Group. If you regulate labour migration and do not allow it unbridled, you stimulate innovation. If you only aim for labour migration, you remove an incentive to innovation. So don't write these people off. Do not keep those wages artificially low and do not remove that incentive for innovation. So be critical of labour migration. I would like to tell Mr Paternotte that story. I hope that will give him the opportunity to say something more than just: more, more, more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u161	There's a reason I started with things that are meant to make it more attractive to go to work, for example saying that you pay less tax on money that you earn when you work, and making sure that there can be something like a full-time bonus, because we really do see opportunities in the Netherlands to get people to participate more in the economy. At the same time, there are 133 vacancies for every 100 people looking for work. You will probably also see that all experts say that you are not going to save that eventually if you are not also willing to allow outside help. That's not just what we say. I saw this morning's report that there are small businesses going down the drain because they have too few opportunities for labour migration. Those are also things that small entrepreneurs are now experiencing in the Netherlands. I agree with you that it is not a sacred grail of solutions for everything, absolutely not, but it will also be necessary in part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u162	I am not against labour migration in principle. We're gonna need it. It's sometimes temporary and sometimes regulated. But a plea for more labour migration is very often a plea from employers. Why? Because it keeps wages low. Because you can get past people who might be a little harder to activate, people who are still standing by the side. My question to Mr Paternotte would be: can we at least agree that we will not write off the 1 million, that we will be the first to work with them, that we will be the first to look at wages and make them rise, and that work pays, even at the bottom of the labour market? And can we agree that we keep the incentive for innovation in it and that it won't be a free lunch for employers who really like to bring quickly, simply, low-paid migrant workers here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u163	Yeah, it's gonna have to be both. We agree that people must earn a decent wage. It's not for nothing that we've both been committed to accelerating the minimum wage up next year and the year after that. We're giving this period a lot of momentum. That minimum wage applies to everyone, thank God, by the way. Not only that, Emile Roemer has given some very concrete recommendations some time ago, Mrs Marijnissen will recognize that to ensure that labour migration becomes fairer and that you can't bring people here on the basis of "here you have a contract with housing, but if I don't need you anymore, you'll also lose your home." They are also about situations where too many people are put into a home and that you can actually do something about it. Since we will need labour migration, the Minister is right to say that I ask the Cabinet to do something about it. I want to see results on that. It will be necessary to ensure that we can do this in a fair way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u164	Mr Paternotte mentioned three proposals. The first was, as I recall, the increase in taxes on profits and capital. Now it's in D66's election program. It has even been calculated and it would yield about 15.3 billion if it had been up to D66. I am a little confused because I assumed that Mr Paternotte had brought that into the negotiations with the other parties. Now he is making the proposal here, so I wonder how this relates to the electoral programme and the negotiated coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u165	Those negotiations were done by Rob Jetten and Sigrid Kaag. By the way, they have done an excellent job. I've been involved in the conversation about the spring note. I think you can see that there are about eight tax increases, for example for investors who buy houses that they are not going to live in. In my view, it is about EUR 300 million that comes with it. For large shareholders, several increases are made. A top rate is created in box 2. The taxes in box 3 are increased. There will also be an additional EUR 1.3 billion income tax for companies. These are all things that have emerged from the discussions on the Spring Paper and which will also be reflected in next year's budget. I think it is very good that, at this time, we are asking for this contribution to indeed the big shareholders in this society, the companies that can spare it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u166	Last question, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u167	I was not so much concerned that Mr Paternotte had negotiated himself. I'm not that lame. If it's your vision to raise 15.3 billion, because you think it's crooked, it's a fair amount of money, and then you're gonna negotiate with the other three parties that want it to do so to a greater or lesser extent, and you're not gonna get a 15.3 billion increase but a 100 million relief, that's a weird negotiation. I therefore wonder: will he ask the opposition to table proposals, amendments and motions for heavier taxes so that he can support them? What does he ask the opposition about that first proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u168	I still don't feel like I'm really asking anything from the opposition. I think, above all, that Mr Azarkan should think about this himself, but he always does. I see that in the last two years the tax on companies has been increased by 8 billion and the tax on wealthy large shareholders by 4 billion. That is a good start, but I ask the cabinet to make a further proposal and increase the tax on capital, because the Netherlands can handle this in terms of capital inequality, and to use it to make work more attractive for ordinary Dutch people. You see that now far too much in the world: if you can make more money by having money than by working hard, something is wrong. That's bad for the economy, and that's what's bothering us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mr Paternotte's fine words about the distortion in our tax system. I just said something about that myself. We once took an initiative together for a millionaire tax. I just note that, unfortunately, there is still no such thing as a serious tax on large assets, as well as a substantial increase in the tax on profits for companies with which it is going well. He keeps a nice story, but D66 himself supplies the Minister of Finance. That is why my question to Mr Paternotte is: do you think you can explain yourself that you are not doing all these things, while you are delivering the Finance Minister yourself, while the costs for people are huge, while there are so many Dutch people who are currently unable to pay the bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u170	This is just not true. Look at the way in which the additional investments mentioned in the Spring Note are paid. That is for the most part because of the 1.3 billion extra income tax for companies, by setting a top rate in box 2, by saying that large shareholders need to pay more, so they have to pay more tax on the profits they make, by raising the capital tax, by raising taxes for expats, by raising taxes for investors who are not going to live in their own homes. That's all in there. These are all things that I think: if I was talking about in the Spring Paper, I could have said in my head "what would Lilian do." Well, that'd be pretty close. I think Mrs Marijnissen can look at something more with pink glasses in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u171	You bet I didn't! There's so much you can do, Mr. Paternotte. So much has already been proposed here when it comes to the taxes people pay on work. It's crazy for words that you pay more taxes on your work in the Netherlands than if you're a pawnshop boss who literally gets dormant rich from the rent income you get. That's the kind of crookedness you need to deal with. I appeal to you because you are in that position, because you supply the minister and because it is now necessary. It is now more necessary than ever, because on the other hand there is a growing group of Dutch people who no longer know how to pay the bill at the cash register at the supermarket or when they gas at the pump. That is why there is this need, and that is why it is not acceptable for us to talk today about a spring note in which the cabinet does not do anything extra in this area, when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u172	But the cabinet is doing a lot by asking for a larger contribution to large shareholders. My appeal is to do so much more with wealthy people. But those pawnshops... the transfer tax for properties you're not gonna live in has been greatly increased. I think it has gone from 8% to more than 10% in the last two years. That's a hell of a raise. This brings in more than 0.5 billion a year in the state treasury. There is no representative of the pawnshops in the House of Representatives, but if there were anyone here who would specifically stand up for them, he would tell me that it is scandalous what the cabinet is doing. Let's be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mrs Marijnissen's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u174	It's so easy to shield with this when you don't answer my question. Mr Paternotte himself has just said: it is crazy for words that you can become dormant rich in this country. If you have a lot of money, you get even richer, while on the other hand there is a growing group of Dutch people who cannot pay the bill. I don't think we're getting out of there right now. I would like to go through the debate Mr Paternotte had with Mr Segers on labour migration. I would like to check whether Mr Paternotte said that he actually liked the cabinet plan that was on the table yesterday and was off the table again. We had to bring unemployed young people from France here to work here. I have just one question to ask: does Mr Paternotte recognise that it is precisely because of labour migration, which is of course in the interest of employers, who want to keep the costs on labour low... we now see that wages in the Netherlands are rising much less than prices. That's what people say massively: costs go up, but my income doesn't go up. Does Mr Paternotte recognise that labour migration is one of the reasons why employers do not feel the need to increase wages, feel the need to innovate, to create more attractive working conditions? And does he recognise that the exploitation of migrant workers is currently on the agenda, that the Labour Inspectorate is saying "just stop this unregulated labour migration" and that a call for even more labour migration, even outside the European Union, is highly inappropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u175	Yeah, we need to raise wages. The government can also do something about this, for example by significantly increasing the minimum wage. That's what we're gonna do next year and even more the year after that. We'll speed it up. By the way, we do that linked to the AOW. That's something I think you care about, too. We all have to do that. We're gonna have to raise wages. We must also ensure that taxes on work can be reduced. As far as we are concerned, we need a full-time bonus to ensure that if you are working in childcare, in education or in health care and are willing to work an extra day, you can also be rewarded for that. All this must be done. We are in complete agreement. But I don't think there's any expert who'll say that all of this is enough if you're not willing to do something about labour migration. As for yesterday's Minister's suggestion, people from France can, in principle, already come here. They basically have a work permit. This will not be necessary. The reason they do not come here directly is that there are such deficits throughout Europe. That is why a country such as Spain has said: we are making agreements with countries outside the European Union on temporary labour migration, so that people can come to this country, help and learn things and go back. Most migrant workers are already returning on their own. If you make agreements about that, you can make that number even bigger. This allows you to help countries on both sides. That's realistic. That is also the plan put forward by the European Commission. That is what I say: let us get to work on it and let us be honest about it. I know that our two parties will not agree on this very soon. I hope that together we can be behind the cabinet, so that it very quickly implements the recommendations made by Emile Roemer to improve conditions for labour migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u176	I specifically asked whether Mr Paternotte would agree with the plan that was on the table yesterday and that was then gone or not. I can't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u177	That's just not the point I'm putting in here. If you want to come to the Netherlands from France to work, you can. Anyone can do that, but in France, Germany and the Netherlands we have deficits. We will also have to be honest about labour migration with 'third countries', as it is called. That's the point I made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u178	I have just heard Mr Paternotte say that in times of crisis, the strongest shoulders must bear even more of the heavy burden. In the last crisis, we have seen that some shoulders are becoming very large. In the corona crisis, the pharmaceutical companies and the supermarkets made huge profits. Now we see that in energy companies. I am therefore pleased that Mr Paternotte has just referred to the windfall tax. I wondered if he would support the proposal of the Christian Union and Volt to create a basis for us to use that instrument now and possibly in the future, so that we can impose an additional levy when we think that profits are too large. The question that follows is how Mr Paternotte looks at the possibility of using that instrument at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u179	I'm going to study that proposal. What I was just thinking is why we're creating a foundation, when actually a lot of parties find it so interesting that they'd like to do it already. Earlier, Wopke Hoekstra, the current Minister of Foreign Affairs, proposed in his role as a list striker to ask the big supermarkets for an extra contribution, because they had been quite well-manned during the corona crisis. Turns out none of that was possible. You just mentioned a whole pride of countries that are now trying to see if they can do something with a windfall tax. It would indeed be very good for the investment climate if many European countries did so in a similar way, I would say to Mrs Hermans. If that is possible and if it can be done in several countries, should we not simply do so instead of creating a basis, spending a lot of time on it and then looking further? My question to the cabinet is whether we can quickly find out if we can do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u180	That sounds really good. I think that's going hand in hand. We asked this question to the cabinet seven weeks ago. We're waiting for the answers. I hope that we will have it today and find out if this is indeed possible. Then we can make sure that we meet vulnerable households. I also heard Mr Paternotte say to Mrs Kuik that he thinks the measure to give a one-off €500 is too generic. I would therefore like to add a proposal. I wonder how Mr Paternotte looks at that. This is to give an inflation premium during this high inflation by doubling the care allowance so that people get twice as much care allowance every month. That is in line with what the CPB says, namely that people can earn €110 extra and that is what people need. Then you can very purposefully compensate the most vulnerable. You can do that over a longer period of time. That could take you into July 1st until the end of the year, to help the most vulnerable households.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u181	I don't know if that could go into July 1st. We often see that when we say here that something needs to be introduced very quickly, the government makes mistakes. What I find charming about Mr Dassen's approach is that it automatically works in such a way that the people who receive the most care allowance and therefore need the most support, then receive most of the inflation support as Mr Dassen calls it. I just can't figure out exactly how much that costs and how focused that is. But at least I'm gonna look at it with a lot of interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u182	I would like to take Mr Paternotte back to Mr Van Raan's interruption. What struck me is that Mr Van Raan challenged Mr Paternotte to look at the larger system. I think that was a little complicated for Mr Paternotte. As I follow the debate here, I think how normalized in this Chamber is the liberal idea. We are talking here, for example, about high energy bills as if it is self-evident that we should all be so deep in our pockets for things that we need as essential necessities. We can make a nice city trip by plane for €10, but we have to bend over to keep the roof above our heads, pay the energy bill and just get food in our mouths. I would therefore like to ask Mr Paternotte, because I think that also fits with D66, to take us with a wider view. Here too, I see the tone to stick patches. But we're talking about bone fractures. €100 here, €800 there; it doesn't make structural progress. How are we going, if it is up to Mr Paternotte, when it comes to the matter and now that we have the chance to actually set up the system in such a way that we do not have to worry at all about the crazy idea that people have to pay €500 a month, some €300, but still decent amounts of money just to survive? It's basic necessities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u183	I would like to ask Mrs Simons: why do you think my predecessor was called 'climate drag'? Because we very much want that shift. I think you are giving very good concrete examples. If we have substantially preserved energy supply, with a lot more windmills in the North Sea, with solar panels that we have to build and with heat pumps, then the energy bill will go down structurally. A lot of people who have already had the space to make these investments can already see that they are benefiting from them. But those are often people who had the space to make those investments. Then the air travel. If we say that we are going to triple the flight tax and that we have to look at the rates at Schiphol Airport, we do so because we see that flying is artificialally cheap. I myself, together with Mr Stoffer, once proposed a narrow majority in this House at that time voted in favour of a kerosene excise duty. Because it's really weird that an ordinary Dutchman with his Fiat Panda at the pump should pay more VAT and excise duty than easyJet who fills an Airbus A320 with 80,000 litres? That's really weird, isn't it? That is exactly what we want to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u184	I am very pleased with this confirmation that it would indeed be a good idea to look more broadly, especially when it comes to excise duty on kerosene. I think that's something that needs to be done anyway. However, in Mr Paternotte's reply I still hear a lot of direction in the direction of the individual. The individual who can place solar panels on the roof, drive an electric car and make all that kind of amenities. We now have short-term concerns that we must deal with immediately, but does Mr Paternotte agree with BET1 that this is the right time for the real long-term debate? That this is the right time to talk about degrowth, about stopping the liberal idea that economic growth is possible or necessary, forever and ever?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u185	Yesterday, I read the news that the economy has grown again for the first time, but that emissions have fallen considerably. That is our ideal: to build a green economy, in which we can actually innovate and earn more, in which we are not dependent on Putin's gas and oil and on the Middle East, which is so dependent on inflation, and we can take care of that energy here ourselves. I am also honest in this and we have taken a step in that direction: that is all the renewable energy sources I mentioned. In the long term, we will also need nuclear energy. That is the perspective that we want to outline. As far as degrowth is concerned, I understand what you're saying, but I don't think there's anything wrong with growth as long as it's green.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u186	Mrs. Simons? Yes, thank you. Then we'll go to Mr. Clover. Then we'll do Mrs. Van der Plas and Mrs. Kuik and then we'll have a lunch suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u187	On 24 February, the world continued to change. This means that we are going to have to deal with high prices structurally in the coming period. That is the reality. But I just heard Mr Paternotte say that that is the reality and that there is really nothing we can do about it. That's a hell of a message to potentially over 1 million people who can't keep their heads above water. Telling those people that we can't do anything about it is really not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u188	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u189	Mr Klaver has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u190	The problem of rising prices is not going to take place in 2023, but it is happening now. What are Mr Paternotte's proposals to ensure that they can pay that bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u191	I distance myself from the idea that we can't do anything about these high prices. I was just saying that the pressure on the energy market remains for the time being. I was just talking to Mrs Simons about the enormous investment we are making in renewable energy, which is also accelerating some of it. We can also do something about the isolation of the corporation houses with label D, E and F, where the people who mark the most energy prices live. In other words, we can make our economy more sustainable. We can ensure that people are much more protected from the enormous effects of energy prices. In part, we're already doing things. I have just made a number of proposals to do more about purchasing power than we have already done. Mr Klaver can also see that all kinds of things, which he himself introduced in the debate on the government declaration in January, have also happened, such as linking the minimum wage to the AOW, ensuring that municipalities no longer have the task of youth care and that we demand a much greater contribution from large shareholders and wealthy people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u192	Mr. Klaver, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u193	I always want to have the debate on what needs to be changed structurally and what system errors there are. If we make more houses more sustainable, it will lower energy bills. That's very nice, but that's a project for the years to come. That should have been done by now, but we need to work on it in the years to come. There is now an acute crisis. More than 1 million people are going into the blackest scenario that the CPB is sketching, and I think we're going to easily tick it before the fall, sinking through the ice; they can't make ends meet. That is why I asked a very specific question: what are we doing to help these people this year? Then Mr Paternotte said: you have come up with a very unfocused proposal. I've proposed to fix the care allowance. 75% of the people in trouble make use of this care allowance. How much more direct do you want it? I've made proposals. My colleagues have made proposals. What is your proposal for this year, not for next year or the following year, to help these people extra? I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u194	That is not true, because I did say that I would like the cabinet to look at what is possible, including the proposals you have mentioned. I am not going to impose any taboos on that either, because I think it is very good that you put those proposals on the table. I'll just say a few words. You say that 1.2 million will be easily achieved. I don't know. I hope that blackest scenario doesn't come true, but you're saying it's gonna be. If that is the case, then the proposal that you yourself make in a majority is not something that ends up with the group that needs it most. I think it's targeted helping people who get in the most troubles, as I said earlier: the people who have a piece of money left at the end of their money will be the most important thing, because we can't compensate for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u195	I will give Mr Klaver a brief opportunity to respond because you are now addressing Mr Klaver. Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u196	I have one very brief comment and one very short question. The short remark is that we are already halfway through the scenario. We're already on our way to the black screenplay. Second. I ask you what your proposal is. You're criticizing what's wrong with my plan. That's fine. What is your proposal? What's your plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u197	I'd like to go through the chairman, Mr. Klaver. Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u198	As Mr Azarkan has just said, you have made three proposals. A lot of people here have asked questions about my proposals. You have agreed with Mrs Kuik that you are both saying today: you are not making any proposals. But that's just not true. Well, that doesn't do us much good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u199	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van der Plas of BBB. Mr. Paternotte, Mrs. Van der Plas also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u200	Sorry, I thought Mrs. Van der Plas was up for her input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u201	It's not that fast today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u202	I saw Mr Paternotte walking away with great relief. He thought, "This Van der Plas guy stayed put."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u203	No, I'd be happy to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u204	I've just been quietly listening to everything. I would like to put two things to Mr Paternotte. The first is labour migration. Mr Paternotte says that we really need them to be able to make our products. In December 2021, for example, I talked about care. There are just a lot of people needed there too. At that time, I tabled a motion to put European healthcare professionals who would like to work here in an abridged b.B.L., an abbreviated vocational guidance learning pathway, and to focus on language level B1. That's what you need to communicate with people, at least. I actually thought that was a very good motion. So we could get healthcare professionals from abroad here very quickly. I was disappointed that D66, together with other coalition parties, voted against it. I'm actually considering tabling a similar motion. Now that I hear Mr Paternotte talking about 'we really need people from abroad to get to work here', I would like to ask him to take a look later and perhaps to table that motion with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u205	One of the major drawbacks of the fact that we vote here on about 300 motions every week is that you no longer have them all fully ready. I probably wasn't at that debate either. But I'd like to talk to you about it. I myself would like to say something about status holders. We talked a lot about the Syrians years ago, of course. I noticed that it was extremely difficult for them to quickly convert diplomas, which they often take with them, in order to get to work here faster. Many Ukrainian refugees are now also running into this. That does seem like a very good opportunity. It's only good if people who come here join us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u206	I am also talking about European qualified healthcare professionals. There's a lot of potential in that. Moreover, I believe that Mr Paternotte was in that debate, because I tabled that motion during a corona debate. In December, I think Mr Paternotte was still just a corona spokesperson. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u207	I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u208	The second point I would like to discuss with Mr Paternotte concerns innovations. Mr Paternotte has always been an innovation spokesperson. A long time ago, he was. I looked it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u209	That lasted eight months, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u210	Well, he was, wasn't he? Eight months is also a time. A little time is also time. I have seen him promote innovation very much, also on social media: in space, in healthcare, in innovation everywhere. That's really good. That's exactly what I'm here for. I would therefore like to ask Mr Paternotte: why does D66 only focus on halving and reducing nitrogen and livestock farming, rather than on innovations? In the agricultural sector, there are a lot of innovations that can reduce a lot of nitrogen. There is even a system that is proven to reduce 70% nitrogen at stable level. I thought if we gave those farmers, in this case dairy farmers, that system, or if we were to subsidise it. That system costs €150,000. We're counting 10,000 dairy farmers. We do that number of times €150,000. That's a billion and a half. Then we've just reduced 70% nitrogen on 10,000 companies. That's a hell of a innovation. What does Mr Paternotte think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u211	Innovation is beautiful. At the same time, you shouldn't expect to be able to turn away all the problems with innovation, as with some kind of a thousand things wipe. Of course it isn't. You mentioned space travel and care. Yeah, that's where we're innovating, but we still have a huge shortage of people in care. Some have often said: well, the climate problem, at some point there are such good innovations. I even heard a minister say: we're going to drive cars over roads where the cars are charged from the road, so it's all gonna be okay. However, we now see that the earth is getting hotter year after year. The climate crisis gets worse every year. The same applies to the nitrogen crisis. Innovation is beautiful, but you shouldn't expect to be able to turn away all the problems. Not for nothing did the judge say last week that everything we had hoped for and expected from innovation on these barn systems is far too little and that we are therefore again faced with the fact that we have not been able to control these enormous nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands, that nature is therefore harmed even more and that, for example, we can no longer issue building permits. Then I think: innovation is nice, but let's not turn that into a castle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u212	A very long answer, but this system is not the system that Mr Paternotte is talking about with that judge, because it was about an emission-free housing system. The system I'm talking about is just a technical innovation. I'd be happy to show you what that is later. That's not a thousand things towel, but it's a seventy things towel, because it just reduces 70% nitrogen. Probably reduced. Minister Van der Wal has also been on such a farm. I was there myself at... and she was very excited about that. It's all explained to her. I do not understand why we continue to want to expropriate farmers, in the end, if everything else fails. That's gonna cost a hell of a lot of money. There's 25 billion in the pot to deal with that nitrogen. I don't understand! There's a system now... Mr Paternotte is also very much of science, that is very nice. There is now a system that is proven to reduce 70% nitrogen, and then Mr Paternotte says: yes, but well, we have to take a look, but we do not. It's about reducing nitrogen, isn't it? Well, then it's okay if that goes with an innovation, isn't it? Then that's beautiful, isn't it? That costs us 1.5 billion; that's just peanuts compared to what's being spent now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u213	Mrs Van der Plas, of course, has come to this House as a former forewife of the agricultural sector. It always has many reasons to say that we do not have to do the nitrogen approach or that we have to do it in a completely different way, which ultimately means that there is no need for fundamental change. I am not convinced of this and I think that this is underlined by the fact that judicial decisions repeatedly show that we have actually pushed this problem forward too far in the Netherlands for 20 years. We keep 100 million animals here in the Netherlands, in this small country, where we also have industry, where we still have one of the four largest airports in Europe. We are running across borders and we need to make sure that we can get our country cleaner, that not every year so many children get asthma because we have too much nitrogen and ammonia in the air, and that we can then again issue building permits, that we protect nature better and that we get the country moving again. I don't think we should be looking for excuses and goat paths right now. In that respect, I very much agree with the Minister. We're gonna have to get to work now. That's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u214	Next week we have a very large nitrogen debate, so I would ask Members to have the substantive debate on nitrogen together next week, although of course there are a lot of financial consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u215	First of all, I never said you don't have to deal with nitrogen. I even think that people as a whole can make our lives more sustainable and take good care of the earth. What I have said is that the so-called nitrogen problem in the Netherlands is a created nitrogen problem on paper. You must not twist my words like I say: nothing needs to happen, because I am called a denier on all fronts, and that is simply not true. But I will stick with it: I hear Mr Paternotte going in all directions and wandering a little. I wonder whether D66 really does not want these innovations in livestock farming. Does D66 just want to get rid of those animals? It's okay. I find it terrible to think of farmers like that, but that may be a position. But then Mr Paternotte can say the same: Mrs van der Plas, the innovations are very nice, but we simply want to reduce the livestock, and that is why we support these nitrogen plans. That's an answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u216	Yes, we are the pig flat and the megasthal of Europe, and we do not think that is sustainable. But we do want a perspective for farmers to be able to make more money with fewer animals. I think you and I both know very well that in recent years there has been no decent bread for many farmers in the Netherlands. That's gonna require a big change. We also want the cabinet to be clearer about the ways of helping farmers to make that shift to circular agriculture, as we would like to call it. That's what money has been made available for. That's also innovation. That is sustainable innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u217	The fact that the Netherlands is Europe's pig flat and megastal is simply not true. Pig flats aren't in the Netherlands in the first place. Point out to me where there is a pig flat somewhere in the Netherlands; that is just not the case. Of all stables in the Netherlands 1% is by definition a megastal, 1%. The rest, 99%, is regular stables. And as far as circular agriculture is concerned, the animal is the ultimate cycle. The pig is made of meat. The manure goes on the crops. That's what the vegetables grow from. Everything about the pig that is not used goes into all kinds of other products, to medicines.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u218	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u219	So that circular agriculture is already there. I would like Mr Paternotte to say the truth: we do not want these innovations because we simply want fewer animals. Whatever reason he wants less animals is up to Mr Paternotte, but then you're honest. We keep talking about honesty and telling people to tell the honest story. Then you're just being honest. Just say, "We want to reduce livestock. That's why we're doing this. We're never going to vote for those innovations, because we just don't want to."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u220	A word game and a suspicion. "1% of the stables are just a megastal." Yes, if you have a lot of small stables and one very large megastal with thousands of animals, you may have a little less megasthals, but there are a lot of animals in those megasthals. That's why it's called a megatal. And then it's said that we would want this because we just wouldn't want those cattle. No, of course not. That is because we see that nature, the soil acidifies, that animals disappear, that plants disappear, that our dunes are affected, and we are not beaten for nothing because we do not keep to agreements we have made ourselves, so that we can no longer build houses, which we need very much. That's why. Mrs Van der Plas also recently suggested on Twitter that the cabinet would do it all to stuff more people in the Netherlands. The suggestion that we are doing this to bring more people to the Netherlands is nonsense. Everyone here knows people who are looking for an affordable home but can't find it. If we can't build enough, it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u221	Last question for Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u222	My last question is actually more of a observation. There's thousands of animals in the mega-stables. In the Netherlands you just have a legal space for animals. So it's not like animals are shoved together in a megastal. As far as the dune area is concerned, I would also like to correct Mr Paternotte. The dune area has a very high nitrogen impact. That's right. Or yes, "that's right"; that's said. There's a whole nitrogen crash. It is in the area where what has to be done, but according to the PBL is precisely the dune area in positive to restorative state. Mr Paternotte can read this in the report of the Planning Office for the Environment. I find it a little strange that he calls the dune area as an area where nature is destroyed. According to the PBL, that is precisely not the case. I would like to ask Mr Paternotte to get the facts straight, because we are making very rigorous policies based on what we hear here and what people who make that policy are not really familiar with at all. I think that's serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u223	It is, of course, a gain that Mrs Van der Plas cites the Planning Office for the Environment. The fundamental question we need to answer is whether we recognise this problem. Do we recognize that these nitrogen emissions really need to be reduced? I hope that Mrs van der Plas will be honest about this in her term, because if the Dutch are told that all this is happening from some kind of conspiracy or political will, then that is not true. We don't have an alternative. It's gonna have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u224	Before you go any further, there is another question from Mr Omtzigt; sorry, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u225	Sorry, Mrs. Chicken, you can sit down for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u226	Mr Omtzigt is also entitled to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u227	Patience, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CPB has calculated that in the black scenario there are 1.2 million people who with their money don't make it to the end of the month, even if they can cancel every hospitality visit, every visit to the movie and their holidays. If they can cancel all, but also all, variable spending, then there are still in the blackest scenario, where we are close, 1.2 million households that don't make it to the end of the month, month in, month out. Does Mr Paternotte have any moment since 1945 in mind that we have been in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u229	I can't completely oversee it. I know that the oil crisis in the 1970s has been very severe. I know that in 1945 people got a tenner from Lieftinck to get through the month. In my opinion, Mr Omtzigt has done a lot of study on this at the University of Exeter. He'll be much better at telling me this. But it's true. I also say that in the blackest scenario there is a large group that will be out of reserve within three months. That is why I have said to the cabinet that I think it will take more than what has already happened. That's what I'm giving the Cabinet for this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u230	This was given to the government at the beginning of the year. It would be settled in the spring note. It's not gonna be. And indeed, I haven't been able to find them since 1945. Mr Paternotte mentions the two moments in which it was squeezed, but which we came out quite quickly. Lieftinck's tenner was a money reform that the Netherlands got going pretty well after that. This can be a longer period of time that a lot of people have a lot of trouble getting around. Most of these people are technically between 120% of the minimum and modal. That's where the marginal pressure is so high. There are even more people there than below 120% of the minimum, who get the €800. Is there any specific policy that these government parties are proposing for precisely those people who are not getting into month-in-month from the end of the month, who have to buy on their money, less food, turn the heating to 14 degrees or do all these three things at once? Are the proposals of D66, which are due to enter this year, for this group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u231	Of course, we are taking a lot of measures this year. In part, you acknowledge that this €800 also helps these households. For households between 110% and 120% of the legal minimum, there are a lot of measures, such as lower VAT on energy, which of course helps. They see a reduction in excise duty which ultimately also helps people who have to go to a distribution centre in the morning, to Schiphol or to a supermarket for their work and who have to be there so early that they cannot do so by public transport. But they are indeed relatively unfocused measures. That is why I say to the cabinet that I want it to be more targeted. Next year, we couldn't have done that before, for example, we're going to speed up the minimum wage, with all the arrangements involved. This means that the AOW is also increased more quickly. That, of course, helps with that upward pressure at the bottom of it, a lot of people who are exactly in this situation. That's what I'm seeing right now. I have made a number of proposals to reduce the burden on people who work. That could help this group, too. I think we should look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u232	I asked about this group. I said 120%. That's not gonna help $800. If you earn €1 too much or as a benefit, you miss that €800. I can assure you that this is going to be very poignant cases. Reducing a subsidy of €800 for that group with a hard limit is going to be very, very painful. Is D66 willing to for example a... That can be via the care allowance. This can be done by a surcharge of €400 for the second income group. We'll pay them as follows. Let me give you one example. The three owners of the coal power stations, who are now obliged to stand still, will be compensated by the three of them this year at 1.6 billion to stop them. That's twice as much as all poor households put together. That's paid for with a storage from the energy bill. If you could get rid of it, you'd make real meters. But because the government has billions ready for CO and there a few foreign investors are getting stinking rich... there's nothing more profitable than a stationary coal plant in this country. But for the poor workers of this country, we do nothing. Is D66 willing to make a distinction or a shift in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u233	This is something that I hope Mr Omtzigt, who is often on top of these issues, will outline the long-term perspective and help to get the Dutch involved. If we are to tackle the energy crisis and the climate crisis, we must take the same measures, namely to move towards renewable energy. In this way, we ensure that people are no longer dependent on oil from the Middle East and on gas from Russia, things that are now causing the hugely high prices that drive inflation. That's where we need to go. By saying that the climate crisis may only have to wait for a moment and we better open up the biggest emitter of CO, you say: we have one crisis now and that is why we are not paying attention to the other. But we don't have that luxury anymore. What applies to nitrogen also applies to climate: it is really the last chance because we are the last generation to make that difference. That is why I am looking very sceptically at the suggestion that this should be done through the opening of coal-fired power stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u234	I didn't say the coal plants should be opened. I said something completely different. I said it's bizarre that we're paying 1.6 billion for it, and the costs these operators are probably not going to cost more than 200 million. There is total overcompensation by setting up very large funds and calculating them in a silly way. By running it through the energy bill, these three operators receive 1.6 billion via this Spring note. That while you could have stopped them with 200 or 300 million. If you had done that 1.4 billion, you could have solved almost all the problems of the families Mr Wilders pointed out in his contribution. You couldn't have paid that supplement to about 800,000 families, but to 2.5 million families. That's exactly where the CPB says the problem is. And then those coal power stations would have stopped. That's a D66 wish I respect. But it seems that when it comes to CO, it doesn't matter how expensive it is. Will Mr Paternotte see how we can stop paying bizarre prices for the foreign shareholders who bought the coal plants and how we can arrange a decent compensation for people who are not going to make it by the end of the month?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u235	I find that I did not fully understand Mr Omtzigt, because I had the impression that that was his suggestion. But he actually says: can we ensure that we do not have to pay the compensation, but also do not have to open the coal-fired power stations? I think that's really a what-if question, because if I could, of course I'd find that very interesting, but I don't know if that's possible. So let's ask that question together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u236	I'm glad the question has been asked. The question is not whether we pay compensation, but how much compensation. There is really no economist to be found who thinks you have to pay 1.6 billion to stop three coal plants for a year. I am giving a warning here: the same is threatening to happen with nitrogen duties. Nitrogen duties, like CO rights, are at risk of becoming the new gold. People are going to buy them up and then say to the government, "Come on. You want less nitrogen. I have the rights and I'm going to eject." Does D66 have a plan to ensure that those tens of billions will not end up with a number of venture investors who are now buying up nitrogen and CO rights like crazy? That is what is happening at the moment, but I am glad we are going to see it later. I'm gonna see if the government knows a way... the price of those coal plants has been put at the top of the market, which means we're paying the top price. But I'm glad we're gonna do that. I hope that there will also be a plan later to ensure that nitrogen rights are not bought out, so that the fund is not emptied by a few buyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u237	I am pleased that Mr Omtzigt has also made it clear that we must do so by pursuing climate objectives at the same pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u238	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. Finally, we are going to listen to Mrs. Kuiken of the PvdA for lunch. Then I'll suspend for half an hour. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, because of the war in Ukraine, the prices of food and energy have risen rapidly, but we also saw this development before the war. In January, an average family already paid €1,300 more for energy when signing a new contract than a year earlier. The problems are piling up. We can see this in the housing crisis, for example. More and more people are having trouble making ends meet month after month. Mr. Chairman. Our country is becoming collectively poorer. Of course, there is no political magic at rising prices. But the question is how do we divide this account and who do we place it with? That is a question we are faced with today. That is the question to politics. I believe that the coalition's proposals are inadequate and unfocused. Insufficient, because the energy bill is rising much harder than the compensation people get. People who can't miss it are now falling hundreds of euros a year. And unfocused, because especially the people with a higher income, the economists also sketched that for us, much more benefit from compensation than the people who need it most, people with a low or average income, for example because they drive a larger car. Mr. Chairman. That is also why I am critical of the Spring Note we are discussing today. Of course there are good plans. The extra money and investing in Defense: we all feel that that is necessary. We'll talk about that in the fall. But this Spring note is the last chance this year, 2022, to do something for the people who need it now. The CPB warns that millions of households are facing major problems. Everyone agrees on that, too. When that moment occurs, you expect the government to act and lead. But Prime Minister Rutte says carelessly: we are all getting a little poorer; there are few buttons to turn on. And Minister Kaag says coolly: money doesn't grow on trees. Yeah, duh, people know that, too. That's what they feel in their wallet every day, and later much more. Even today, I see coalition partners who mainly refer to the cabinet. They are open to plans, but don't put anything concrete on the table themselves and move on to autumn or next year. Or they say, "We couldn't do anything sooner." The minimum wage could be raised this year. Yeah, in February, but now you're late. We said it in the fall. We said it in the spring. We said it when we made coffee with Minister Kaag and the Prime Minister. But no action has been taken. So, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, yeah, yeah, That's where we stand now. If we let common sense speak, then we know what to do, we will ensure that the people who need it now are supported and we will ask for a contribution to those who can miss it. We have put forward a number of proposals for this purpose, which the Cabinet can make in connection with this Spring paper. A surcharge of €500 for each Dutch person who receives care allowance. For example, low and middle incomes receive targeted support. That's about three-quarters of the people who need support. Two: freezing the rents for all social housing and a rent reduction for poorly isolated housing. Three: prepare for raising the minimum wage by January 2023, and not with a few quarters but with whole euros. That's how you make a difference. And ask to pay this a fair contribution to who can spare it. A solidarity levy for those companies that are now making large profits, often in response to this crisis. And I hear warm words like, "I'm open to it." I hear Mrs Hermans say it, I hear Mr Paternotte say it, but then you have to want to take care of it now. Then you should know that you have that buffer so you can take other measures. Because the security of existence of Dutch people has never been put under such pressure in the recent past. The corona crisis is not yet over and is getting worse; tomorrow we will have the debate with Minister Kuipers. There is the war in Europe that threatens our society. In addition, there are rising prices that put pressure on our prosperity and well-being. This now calls for political leadership for concrete, targeted and robust measures to address this now. And therefore: if there are no fundamental changes, then the Labour Party will not support the Spring Note and what results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u240	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Hermans, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u241	During my speech, Mrs Kuik and I discussed the idea of doing something through the healthcare allowance. I have a question about that, just to understand and understand. Looking at the CPB report, a larger group of households are in trouble, as are single people. Your proposal on the health allowance will, of course, also touch the border where you can or cannot give someone such a concession. Let me give you an example: a single police officer. It'll be just above that line. So we get to the middle group that I mentioned in my speech. I am curious to hear from Mrs Kuik how we can also do something for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u242	First of all, we're not doing it through the care allowance. I think it would be a good idea to establish this, also because otherwise it would lead to major technical problems. The measure of €500 is aimed at the people who receive care allowance, so that you can help about three-quarters of the people who are now in acute need. Partly those people are below middle incomes and part of them are on middle incomes. So you do something very targeted for these groups. If you want to do more, you look at lower rents and freezing rents, you look at compensation in other ways, you look at raising the minimum wage and so on. There are several buttons that you can turn on, but, really, with this measure you are already doing a lot for the low and middle incomes, partly for single people but certainly also for families with a modal income.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u243	You are right, by the way, I linked it too directly to the care allowance, but it is the group that receives it. We were talking about the lower middle incomes, but I am really talking about the middle incomes. My question to you, and perhaps through you to the cabinet, is whether when you go on that care allowance route, you end up with that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u244	Firstly, I am not concerned with what specific measure it is. If you say "I want to do something for those lower and middle incomes, but I want some extras," please! My criticism is that you constantly say: we cannot turn buttons, the money does not grow on a tree, it is complicated. Boy, it's not complicated if you want to, when you see that the problems are urgent and big right now. Then this is the time to take action so that you can make some arrangements this year. That's why my disappointment is there. Not because I do not want to look at solutions together, but because you say 'I see the problems, I want to do a hand-out', but then they move forward, look at the cabinet and not put a concrete measure on the mat. That disappoints me. Then what message do we have from the 1.2 million families that are now in danger of coming into acute need?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u245	However, I regret this reaction, because I am genuinely trying to see which group Mrs Kuik wants to touch and what measures she is thinking about. In my direction only comes back that I wouldn't want to do anything. That is not the case at all. I just want us to do something that works, which helps, and yes, eventually we'll find cover that we can all agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u246	Firstly, I see that in the autumn we said: you have to do more, because this is too unfocused and too little customization for those on low and middle incomes who need it. We repeated this in January, we repeated it in February, we repeated it in March, and it was constantly said that it is not necessary. Now we are at the Springs note, the last chance to do something. We come up with four targeted measures to help the middle and low incomes, and we also provide proper cover. I don't know how specific you want it to be. I would have expected this kind of concreteity from the coalition parties and I haven't heard them, except for: I'm looking, I want to explore, I'm curious and I'm waiting for the cabinet. That is not what I expect from group chairmen here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u247	Thank you. Last question for Mr Segers, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u248	I think it's a curious representation of things when you say, "Nothing's gonna happen." There is a great deal going on this year: 6 billion to bridge the worst needs. If Mrs Kuik says "that should be more targeted, that should be different," then we have looked at the link with the AOW, we have looked at the increase in the legal minimum wage, which directly affects people, to the link with all benefits to that increase in the legal minimum wage. If Mrs Kuik says 'I would like that to be more and that it should be even more targeted', then I share that wish and indeed we should look for what else we can do. However, I referred to the political threat that sounded at the end of Mrs Kuik's contribution: if nothing changes, I will vote against the Spring paper. I don't think we're gonna vote on the Spring Note. Well, that's not going to happen either. There are supplementary budgets for this. For example, there is a wage increase for teachers in primary education. There's a raise in that for the DOD. A collective agreement with the police has been concluded with substantial wage increases. Is the PvdA going to vote against this information question and ensure that this increase in pay cannot go through?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u249	It's nice of you to explain the technique to me again. What I am describing here is that we now have an acute problem for millions of families that also concern you, who are not going to make it in the autumn if we do not take more action now. I ask the cabinet and the coalition partners to come forward with serious proposals for this. We ourselves proposed three targeted measures and a proposal for cover. Instead of saying, "I think that's smart, I think that's wise, because I also see that these families are gonna be in the cold differently," I'm gonna get this you-bake. I didn't say the cabinet didn't do anything. I simply said that this is too little and too unfocused. The crisis is bigger than it is now. Because of the crisis, measures are being taken in many areas, and rightly so. But now take targeted measures for those families that are now in the cold. That is my question to you. You say: but that also means this and it also means that. Yes, but if you do not take action now and do not intervene now when the time is right, there is also the risk of the 1.2 million families that are going to be in the cold. Why are you voting for that? Why don't you take a targeted action to undo that? Why don't you take the time to do something for those families?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u250	I will give Mr Segers the floor briefly because you are addressing him directly again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u251	So this is my sixth interruption? Okay. I'm really trying to find a way to do things right here. And why? I want to do it for those 1.2 million families. The CPB says there's a black scenario in which 1.2 million households really get into trouble. I see a huge size of people in welfare, people at the bottom, people who have to live off the legal minimum wage or just above it, who are really in trouble. The cabinet says: we are now paying €800 for these families. Is that enough? Are all the problems gone? Of course not. We are genuinely seeking to spend what is possible, what is possible, as focused as possible. In addition, we pull everything out of the closet. We want, with openness, even in August, when we look at this year's purchasing power, but certainly next year's, to look very closely at what we can do for those people to ensure that they do not sink through the ice. That's what I'm in politics for. That's what you're in politics for. I think it is such a strange reaction to say: if I do not get what I want or if something extra happens, then the potential would be that this increase in primary education would not go through, that this higher collective agreement with the Defense Department would not go through and that those higher salaries for the police would not be paid. I think that's such a strange reaction. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u252	Because I think it's such a weird tool. I think it's almost blackmail. "You're either for me or you're against me automatically." No, I'm not for you or against you. I want to make arrangements for the people at home who are gonna be in the cold. I'm for those people who could only put four products in their shopping basket. I'm for those people who couldn't buy flowers anymore. I want to mean something to these people, because we've been warning about it since the fall. In the spring we repeated that it had to be more targeted, more precise and better. Economists support us in that. The CPB supports us in that. The Nibud supports us in that. Municipalities see it emerging at their counters and at the food banks. So now is not the time to say: boy, I'm satisfied with everything I've arranged. No, that is not what we are in politics for, and you know it. Then we have to take the moment and take a number of measures in the Spring Paper, because it is possible, because you have the buttons to turn on and because you have the political will to make a difference there. I would like to invite you to take real concrete measures together before the summer, or at least to set them in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u253	I would like to start by saying that I respect opposition parties who are seriously looking at how they can make serious proposals to improve things. With that respect, I'm standing here. At the same time, I hope that Mrs Kuik will see that some of the things that the cabinet does are the result of motions adopted in debates that we have had here in this house, for example in the debate in January, to which Mrs Kuik refers. That was about the AOW coupling. I believe that at that time I had a rather solid debate with Mr Klaver on youth care. Moves were made there, too. Part of a search for something more dualism in this house is that serious proposals are being listened to and that we try to do something with them. In March, there was a package of some 3 billion on top of the 3 billion in the autumn. In this spring note, listening to several motions that have been adopted here in this house with absolute majorities, sometimes with 150 votes. I hope you will forgive us for saying that a coalition has done something. That comes from the same intention. At the same time, the question is justified as to whether it is enough. I think that those CPB figures and that blackest scenario led everyone, at least in my group, to the question whether it is enough what we have done. When I saw the proposals from GroenLinks and the PvdA on this solidarity levy, I thought: hey, wait a minute, we proposed this ourselves. This proposal was cited in a campaign. We have also tabled a motion on it. Then the cabinet's reaction was: it can't be done. In the meantime, we can see that other European countries are doing it. Mr Dassen is talking about a legal basis. I will say in my term that I go one step further and think it is a sympathetic idea. I'd like to get on with this. Then it is not strange that we ask the cabinet: earlier it was said in the context of corona that it could not, but can it not? That is also part of the same process that we saw in January. I believe that this is also something very positive and does not need to be threatened with voting against everything that comes out of it. The minimum wage increase starting on 1 January is also the result of this. Teachers' salaries are also involved. Then we can open the debate, just as we did in January, without the threat being necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u254	First of all, I would like to make a few small comments on your question. Then I'm gonna end up positive. One. We were definitely in favour of the AOW coupling. Older people were left behind, so that link was needed. With the cover underneath, I'm not that happy. I like sandwiches, but I don't like salami sandwiches. I hope you don't mind. They're just pretending that's our wish. No, you should've asked me how I was gonna take care of the cover. That seems fair to me. I also acknowledge that things have been done. Absolutely. Chapeau. Two. We are in a situation that is becoming more threatening, threatening for families, and not because we are threatening to talk to each other. I'll see what I can do now. The momentum is now with the spring note. That is why Mr Klaver and I have said: we take this seriously, we make proposals that can still be made and we are going to cover them properly. Then I'll end up positive. That's where solidarity comes from. The fact that this now comes about with openness and an opening, super fine! But my concern is with it. I'm looking for a positive word. It's a well-known Hague way of saying "I like you" and "I'm gonna take it seriously" and meanwhile, the Cabinet is doing months of exploratory research in the UK and in Italy and it's moving the problems forward. That's what I'm worried about. What's a concrete clue that it's gonna happen? It would also be nice if the money that is released with this could be of practical benefit to the people involved in the Spring Paper. That's my open attitude towards you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u255	I think that, from the point of view of Mrs Kuik, from an opposition party, this is a fair response. At the same time, I have tried to outline that perspective, because I understand that Mrs Chicken does not want ten birds in the air, but something serious. I made the comparison with January, because at least it was taken seriously at the time and coalition parties took that step forward. That intention is now also there and I understand that Mrs. Kuik says "see first and then believe." I don't think anyone here is in the debate with the intention of playing games. When I saw the proposal by GroenLinks and the PvdA on the solidarity levy, we also tabled motions on this subject earlier. I honestly thought: hey, it's good that that comes back on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u256	You'll have your own term. I'm going to be happy to listen to what it actually lands in. I'm finishing up, because I understand everyone's hungry. I understand that everyone says that some things are difficult, but let's not forget that when the corona crisis came, we could do a lot, led by Mr Koolmees. When we had to freeze the rents, because something had to happen acutely, this could also happen in 2021. We are now in the year 2022 and there is a major crisis for many families, for the people who are sitting here in the gallery, for people who work on a daily basis, the care workers, the teachers. For them, I want to mean something and change. I see this as the perfect opportunity to do it together. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-15-tweedekamer-4.u258	I shall suspend the sitting until 2:45 p.m.
