ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u1	At present, the issue is the joint examination of legislative proposals 36120-B, amendment of the budget statement of the Municipal Fund for 2022, and 36120-C, amendment of the state of the Province Fund for 2022. I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the record, I shall confine myself to the Municipal Fund; I will not comment on the Province Fund section. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum to the proposal on the Municipal Fund, we read under the heading "Climate Agreement Implementing Costs': "In order to continue the implementation of existing climate policy in 2022, municipalities receive 112.6 million euros'. Can the Minister indicate what this benefit to the municipalities is specifically for? But that's not the only thing. In the case of decentralisation payments, even more of such absurd benefits are mentioned through the Municipal Fund for Climate Ideology. Let me get this straight. These include the sustainable polder: €250,000; support RES process: €8.803.000; wind farm N33: €1.790.000; and the aforementioned implementation costs climate agreement: €112.591,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u4	I didn't sign up for the debate, but I always listen with interest. You can't ask the minister "Would you like to explain what that money is for?" and then say, "This absurd, insane... et cetera." Because then the question isn't useful. So either Mr Van Hattem asks the question to the Minister and then we get an answer, or he has his opinion as usual. But it's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u5	There are two things we need to distinguish. I think that it is absurd for the PVV to consider expenditure on the Climate Agreement to be absurd. That is how Mr Kox points out my point. Especially if EUR 112 million is allocated to the municipalities for this purpose, we find that an absurd amount, especially at a time when many families are unable to make ends meet and have other problems than the implementation of such a climate agreement. First of all, I have to say something about the budget that is now before us and the documents that have been handed over. These documents were only sent to us as First Chamber last week. For this short period of time, we have given up a written round, in order to make it happen smoothly here as well. So we have not had a written round to ask this out. So in view of the fact that I find the Climate Agreement absurd and the amount is absurd, I would like to know what exactly is underneath and what this is going to be or should be spent on by these municipalities. That is how Mr Kox should read my comments on this. Mr. Chairman. The Municipal Fund should be supportive of local autonomy. However, by issuing these perverse financial incentives from the Empire through the Municipal Fund to implement the National Climate Agreement, this local autonomy comes on a slippery slope. For what if municipalities do not want to sign on to the crucifix for this climate policy and are not waiting for the destruction of the environment by a wretched wind farm or the throbbing of certain areas? What are the consequences of this by the Minister? Do municipalities, by not using these resources, come into an administrative trap, in which the Empire is going to go the longest? For example, the plans for the sustainable polder in the municipalities of Oss and's-Hertogenbosch are still under development and discussion. Here is a megawindpark equipped with dozens of megawind turbines in the middle of a beautiful open polder and also in a meadow bird area. Neighbors from the surrounding villages are strongly opposed to these plans. Their views and their environment are so badly ruined. No final agreement has yet been reached on this. The plans will be further developed. Can the Minister indicate how much room the municipalities have left to abandon these plans, now that so much wealth is being invested in them? Can the Minister state what specific arrangements have been made with the municipalities of Oss and's-Hertogenbosch? So the Empire is pumping millions into municipalities to push through the Climate Agreement and the associated wind farms. That money's got to come from somewhere. The energy bill is increasing for citizens, partly because of the storage of renewable energy. Can the Minister indicate whether the amounts mentioned have already been spent under the Compatibility Act, or is there any possibility of abandoning this climate-pillage and spending the money more usefully, such as by providing families with a reduction in the burden in the context of combating energy poverty? As a PVV Group, we are therefore tabling a motion to stop such financial perverse incentives towards municipalities to enable wind farms. Finally, Mr President. While citizens have to reverse every dime because of the high VAT and other burdens, this cabinet spends €958,000 on slavery history through the Municipal Fund. What is the purpose of this decentralisation benefit? Is the Minister prepared to stop this wok waste? I'd like a response. Mr President, as far as the first deadline is concerned. I still have the motion I'd like to table. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Ton van Kesteren, Mr Van Strien, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Municipal Fund for the implementation of the Climate Agreement, the Regional Energy Strategy (RES) and the development of wind farms provide decentralisation payments to municipalities concerning:]] [[sustainable polder €250,000;]] [[support RES process €8.803.000;]] [[wind farm N33 €1.790.000;]] [[implementation costs Climate agreement €112,591,000;]] [[Whereas it is not appropriate for local autonomy to provide benefits from the Empire as a financial incentive to implement the Rural Climate Agreement and thereby encourage municipalities to build, inter alia, wind farms;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from these contributions to municipalities for the implementation of the Climate Agreement and to use these resources to reduce the burden on households in the context of energy poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-36120-B-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u7	Then I'm suspending until 4:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u8	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I thank Mr Van Hattem for his question. He did indeed ask questions about a number of decentralisation grants in the field of the Minister of EZK or related to Climate and Energy. Indeed, these are all decentralisation payments under the Climate Agreement. The municipalities themselves have indicated that they consider it important to implement the Climate Agreement properly. They will receive funding from the Empire for their implementation costs. That is what we are doing with this transfer to the Municipal Fund. Members also know that the nature of a decentralisation benefit is that it is freely expendable. There are no requirements or conditions, but in this context I can also say that municipalities and provinces are, of course, aware of their responsibility for implementing the Climate Agreement. They will therefore do their best to address their social responsibility. This also means that the city council is ultimately responsible for controlling the use of the decentralisation allowance. That's something that doesn't happen from the Empire. Then I come to the issue of decentralisation benefit slavery. For this purpose, Amsterdam receives successive funding for several years to ensure that knowledge about slavery history is developed in society, for example by developing a museum facility. Then I come to the motion under letter B. It calls for the money of the municipalities to actually be spent on reducing the burden on families. Mr Van Hattem, of course, raises an important point. The other side is that the municipalities themselves state that they need money for the implementation costs, so they need finance from the Empire in order to be able to implement their policies. Which means I'm deceiving the motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u10	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It is precisely because of the nature of the decentralisation allowance that I have asked this question, because the money is in principle freely expendable. But precisely because the Climate Agreement is below and that Climate Agreement has been concluded with, among other things, the domes, IPO, VNG and the Union of Water Councils, certain agreements with the Empire are also attached to it. The question then arises as to whether the nature of a freely disposable decentralisation benefit is still quite expendable. Because we are about to get the situation that the Empire is consulting with the municipalities on whether they have met the conditions of the Climate Agreement, whether steps have already been taken and whether areas of natural gas have already been decommissioned or wind farms have been built. If the municipality says that it has had a benefit from the Municipal Fund, a decentralisation benefit, but that it has spent it, for example, to tackle energy poverty or to put other things in order, such as the municipal budget and so on, does the Empire say: you have had bad luck, you have already had money for it once and we are not going to do anything with it anymore? Or worse, does the Empire then take all kinds of steps to force natural gas-free neighborhoods or wind farms, without any compensation? I have also asked for a number of specific things. Has this money been spent on the basis of the Compatibility Act? What agreements have been made around the sustainable polder? I would also like to thank the Minister for answering questions about the history of slavery. We understand that this is intended specifically for Amsterdam, for several years, and also for a museum facility. Let us begin by showing what has happened in the field of Christian slavery, of the Christians who were enslaved by the Arab countries. No attention is paid to that at all, while our national heroes such as Michiel de Ruyter did act against it. I'm sure that's not the case. It'll all be spent in the big deugorgy around wok. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there will also be an evaluation and feedback. Or is this really just the total wok-controlled city council of Amsterdam that is going to monitor this further? I would like another comment on this point. So much for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That's the case. Mr Dittrich. Would you like to place another interruption on Mr Van Hattem? Then I'll ask him back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u13	No. I just want to say that I want to distance myself from Mr Van Hattem's words when it comes to virtues and Amsterdam. It is very important that attention is paid to the past of slavery. We look with interest at what the municipality is going to do in that museum facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich, on behalf of D66. Minister, will you be able to answer directly? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u15	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Van Hattem also knows, a few years ago the Court of Auditors made it very clear that we must stick to the specific and decentralisation benefits. A decentralisation benefit means that no further conditions are laid down and a specific benefit means that it does. At the moment, as a minister, I am also working on the task force benefit system, to see how we can recalibrate that system. On the one hand, we see that the specific benefits involve an excessive administrative burden, which sometimes makes inter-administrative activity challenging and can be improved. On the other hand, we can see that the decentralisation allowance is rather general. Indeed, there is no accountability to that. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the Compatibility Act, the First Chamber will have to agree before we can spend this money. On the history of slavery, I would like to point out that the previous cabinet asked the Dialogue Group of Slavers to advise on how to relate to our past. A very balanced report has emerged: Chains of the past. Recently, the cabinet also sent a letter to both chambers, stating that we also consider it important to live through that past. In the autumn we will come up with a response to this report. In this context, it is very good that a city such as Amsterdam is also very consciously concerned with that past and with what that has brought about, but also looking forward to how we can reconnect the past and the present. In this sense, I find it valuable that the city of Amsterdam should give substance to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u16	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-12-eerstekamer-15.u17	I have come to deal with the two legislative proposals. First of all, the legislative proposal 36120-B, Amendment of the fiscal state of the municipal fund for the year 2022. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that we vote on the bill tonight after dinner break. Finally, the legislative proposal 36120-C, Amendment of the state budget of the Province Fund for the year 2022. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case. Then the bill is accepted. Anybody want a note? That is not the case.
