ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the debate on the situation regarding the evacuation of Afghanistan. I would like to welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, as well as the Members and spokesmen in the Chamber, the people who are following the debate from the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. I would like to agree with Members to release the number of interruptions, but to put questions briefly and concisely. If it's okay, we have another program tonight. This is an important debate, so I do not want to limit the number of interruptions, but I would ask you to be brief and forceful. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Piri. With the emphasis on the last syllable that sounded very French. Mrs Piri of the PvdA, you have the floor. You are also the applicant for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Hungarian it is indeed just Piri, with the emphasis on the first syllable. Mr. Chairman. I am doing my part on behalf of the GroenLinks, Volt and BE1 groups. It is good that we are finally having this debate. It is understandable that the focus is now on Ukraine, but we should not close our eyes to what is going on in Afghanistan, the country where the Netherlands has been active for twenty years and that we have only left head-on seven months ago. It's well known that the evacuation operation started way too late. After the chaotic days around the fall of Kabul, at the request of the Chamber, it was promised that everything would be done to evacuate our remaining former employees. Mr. Chairman. Then it turns out that at the end of September the cabinet did not want to evacuate a large group of Afghans. While our former colleagues were in hiding in agony, the ministries were concerned about financial and political risks. That's what the newly released documents show. The lack of shelters would also have been a reason to keep people in misery for longer. I really can't reach that. Why was this piece held back so long and not shared with the Chamber before? Was the lack of reception places in the Netherlands indeed a reason to delay the evacuations? Did the Cabinet consider hiring a charter to save people too expensive? What were the political risks to the environment? Each time the cesspool appears to be even deeper. I would ask this Minister to give real openness now. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the stragglers. From 2007 to the summer of 2021, almost fifteen years old, dozens of people have watched over the Dutch embassy in Kabul. These security guards asked for evacuation in August, but unfortunately in vain. The cabinet is getting into all sorts of semantic tricks not to have to evacuate these people, while their call for help was one of the reasons why the Chamber adopted the Belhaj motion. Afghan Dutchmen who have been begging the Minister for months to bring their families to safety work at the Ministry of Defence in The Hague. Is this finally settled? What about the people who received confirmation that they were placed on the evacuation list in August, but never called? Can the Minister reaffirm, as his predecessor has done, that they are still eligible for evacuation? In what way does the cabinet help those who remain behind in obtaining valid travel documents? There are commercial flights from Kabul again. Are there any tickets booked for the evacuations? Can the Minister finally clarify the laissez-passers? If it didn't make sense to provide laissez-passers because they couldn't do so under state law, why were they sent just before the fall of Kabul? Is it true that there were over 50 laissez-passers at the embassy all this time, when they were never handed out to people? Why did Germany manage to get many more people out of Pakistan, even people without passports? Finally, Mr President. With universal support, a motion has been passed to welcome our Afghan former employees. There is no evidence that this motion has been carried out. Why not? Sixteen Afghan families evacuated in August have been dragged from emergency shelter to emergency shelter for months. Can the Secretary of State promise that these people will be transferred to an ordinary azc within a month at the latest? My final question, my final point, is to the Minister of Defence. In what way can it pay tribute to the Afghan interpreters who have served together with our soldiers all these years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Boswijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Recent events in Ukraine have made the chaotic retreat from Afghanistan look like an eternity ago. It is good that we are finally talking today about the state of the evacuation from Afghanistan. There are still Afghans hiding from the Taliban, because they have done work for the Netherlands. They still hope for a way out; a way out that only the Netherlands can offer them. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, a little over a year ago, my colleague Agnes Mulder asked in the committee debate about the planned withdrawal from Afghanistan to then Foreign Affairs Minister or Afghanistan was not threatening to collapse and would fall into chaos. She then received the answer that this would not happen: "We will not abandon the Afghans." We are now a year further and it seems that we have abandoned Afghanistan. The many videos, for example of the girls who are no longer allowed to go to school, are heartbreaking. For the sake of speaking time, a number of short questions. Can the Minister explain the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan and the access of aid organisations in that country? What are the long-term plans with Afghanistan, now that it looks like there is a status quo? For example, what is the relationship with the Northern Alliance? Then last week's letter with the state of play. Thank you for that. I still have a few questions. The letter mentions that people who were called to the airport but eventually came too late are still being evacuated in accordance with the Belhaj motion. However, I am aware of a number of cases where these people are now being rejected in the second instance. Does the Minister recognize these signals? The directors also write in their letter that, in line with the promise made at the time by Minister Knapen to the CDA, exceptions are made in distressing cases. We would like to stress once again that, as far as the CDA is concerned, the distressing cases must always benefit from the doubt. I'd rather have two people evacuated too much than one too little. Finally, the evaluation of the evacuation. Over the past few weeks there have been several reports following Wob requests, again today an article that has surprised me greatly. Reports that in January 2021 Dutch diplomats warned about the deteriorating situation, but nothing happened. That just before the fall of Kabul a box of laissez-passers with DHL was sent to Kabul, but never arrived there. Crazy though, since the whole option of laissez-passers has also been suggested several times in the Chamber, but often has been swept away. In addition, the documents released show that officials saw opportunities to allow Afghans to travel with travel documents temporarily issued by the Netherlands, but that due to the risk of political impairment, it was nevertheless decided not to take certain decisions. All points that confirm the importance of an independent investigation. An initial exploratory study has already been carried out on 18 December 2021. The report contains a number of valuable insights and comes up with useful recommendations to achieve important improvements in the Dutch crisis approach. It also confirms my feeling that no ruler, for example the Prime Minister, took the lead in this crisis situation. Really a point we need to learn from now. The role of the Chamber is also criticised. Members of parliament would get in the way, no matter how well-meant. I have seen that this remark has raised some emotions in the Chamber. But I think it is very good and very important that the role of the Chamber should also be carefully and critically examined by the evaluation committee, because perhaps I have also gotten in the way myself. I don't think so, but let's look into it and then we can learn from it. Only then can we prevent fiascos like the evacuation from Kabul was in the future. I would like to thank Mr Ruys for leading the committee of inquiry. I wish him a great deal of wisdom and success. I would like to know when we will be able to expect mid-term reports and how we will be involved as a Chamber. I would also like to ask that the NGOs in particular be involved in this evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u5	Rightful questions from Mr Boswijk. It is also very good that he says that many people could have gotten a laissez pass after all. It's very strange that the government denied that last year. What does Mr Boswijk think about the fact that there were people who had signed up for evacuation, who were eligible for evacuation until 17 September, but were then removed from that list? Does he think that with me, and that these people should simply be evacuated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u6	I have just asked the Minister the same question, so I am very curious to hear the answer. 'Cause I have those questions, too, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u7	Of course, that's a little too noncommittal. May I ask you if you agree with me that once you promise that someone may come and that you will fetch that person, you will not be able to strike such a promise suddenly and you will not be able to say: no, you will not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u8	There may be several reasons why people can't participate in the second instance. For example, people may have presented themselves differently, with another identity document, or with forged papers, whatever happened. Then I think it is a very legitimate reason to say: on second thought it cannot be done. But I also know that there have been cases of people who I know have had the undertaking that they would be evacuated as far as I can check, because I think, once again, that ultimately the cabinet that has to decide on this is completely in line with the description in the Belhaj motion, but now, without any reason whatsoever, it is out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u9	After that great evacuation in August, we knew that many hundreds of former employees had remained behind us. We really pushed the cabinet to do everything in our power to evacuate those people as soon as possible. Now it appears that Mr Boswijk has also looked at all the Wob documents, namely that it was too expensive or that the shelters were full, so that no large groups of people, but small groups of people, have been evacuated. My question is: what is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u10	I didn't go through all the Wob pieces. Coincidentally, I just got a few more in my app. I haven't read it yet, so excuse me for that. About the things I've been able to control myself, so apart from what I've seen in the media, I've actually been really surprised. A certain balance has been made on the basis of political risks. Then I think: these are crisis situations; here you can show leadership. However, it seems that another consideration has been made. At the same time, I don't really need to have a debate on every news article and every Wob piece. I think that is precisely why we, as a Chamber, have called for an independent investigation, so that we can get the whole picture in one go, integrally, with the right context. Then we can make the right judgments about that too. But I must say quite frankly, I am as surprised as you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u11	On that last point, I agree with Mr Boswijk. Mr Boswijk also knows, of course, that we were hoping for an evaluation that would simply be completed within three months and that we could then have the debate on it. The last debate we had on this was six months ago. In the meantime, several documents have come out. The independent investigation will not be completed until the end of next year. It would be strange to say that as a Chamber we do not have a debate on it in the meantime. A quote dated 30 September: "It is better not to introduce a charter both for the post Islamabad and for financial and political risks." [[Sentence could not be parsed: Mag ik een ander oordeel van u dan "verbaasd"?]] 'Cause we can be surprised at a lot of things. This just means that we left people in hiding in Afghanistan for this kind of reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u12	Maybe I should have chosen another word for that. It's horrible and poignant and heartbreaking. Because, of course, they're all individual cases. Again, I do not think that we are talking about the ongoing evacuation... Because that's where we still have people to bet on. Many things that have gone wrong after all, this is also part of the process that took place in the period between the time when the Americans decided to leave and February 2nd. That's what the Committee of Inquiry is about. That is also the period that, of course, a lot of Wob-pieces are about. So I think it makes sense for us to include all these points in that independent investigation. At the same time, however, that does not relieve us of the duty to commit ourselves to the people who are still sitting there and to appeal once again to the cabinet to do everything and to be creative to get these people out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u13	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u14	Briefly, Mr. Chairman, finally. We're still talking about over 1,000 people sitting there today. Do you think that financial reasons or the fact that the reception capacity in the Netherlands is full may be an argument for slower evacuation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u15	No, Mrs. Piri knows how I stand in it. Of course that's not an argument. I said then, and I still do: do everything I can to get those people out of there. We have a special responsibility for this. They are mostly people who have also worked for our soldiers there, with danger for their own lives. We abandoned them as a Western world. That is what we have to take responsibility for now. Then you can't say we don't have a place or no finances for a while. So I'm gonna say to the cabinet again: put everything on everything, be creative. At the same time, however, I would like to make sure that we have a debate every time about something that comes out. I am very curious about that, too, but that is what the independent research is meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr. Chairman. More than six months after the fall of Kabul and the takeover by the Taliban, we are again discussing Afghanistan and, in particular, the evacuations. The human rights situation is dramatic, firstly because of the humanitarian disaster that is taking place. In this context, the US decision to confiscate $7 billion of Afghan assets was striking. Half of them are destined for humanitarian needs. Why not the whole amount? The hope that the present Taliban would be less radical than that of 25 years ago shows vain hope. Look at the news that women are not allowed to travel by themselves. High school for girls isn't in it. It's incredibly sad. That is why good implementation of the Belhaj motion is so important. The motion states that we must help the people who have helped us. However, implementation raises all kinds of questions. The government has already severely curtailed the motion in the autumn. But even then, there are still over 1,100 people in Afghanistan who are entitled to evacuation. In addition, there are 330 in other countries and family members waiting for evacuation. There's a lot of uncertainty for the people on the evacuation list. They don't know what they're up to, even if they have a passport. Then another 43 people have been removed from the list, an amazing action. These people would suddenly no longer be eligible for evacuation, while the Minister told me on 13 October that the people who were already given a commitment will always be brought to the Netherlands. How is that possible? Then the travel documents. At the end of October, the government claimed that evacuation without a passport was not possible. However, in February, a Wob request showed that it is indeed possible to issue laissez-passers. That sounds quite different from the Minister who told me in Question Time that this was impossible. Other countries are also doing this successfully. It seems the government could do more than it did. My questions. Why was it only a one-off action that employees without passports were transferred through Pakistan? Did Pakistan dictate those numbers? Is it true that the Germans made thousands of people appear in the same way? Why did the Netherlands only do that with 300 people? On what basis does the Cabinet consider that the criteria of August could be reduced in October and apply to people who e-mailed Foreign Affairs in good faith before 17 September? At least apply the motion to the group that sent an e-mail. Mr. Chairman. What stands in the way of the release of laissez-passers to Afghans? Why else were they sent to the embassy in August? Why would Pakistan or the Taliban not agree to its use? Is that a money issue? Tell me. The letter of 30 March states that people without passports are encouraged to apply. But you can't ask refugees to report to the authorities they fear to prosecute. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. What about Pakistani airline PIA's refused offer to evacuate 300 people? That was in the news this morning. It would be a political disadvantage: let us not evacuate such a large group at once; let us do it in small numbers. That can't be true, can it? In this context, I would also ask you to respond to the interview with former diplomat Cees Roels on 31 December in de Volkskrant, in which he says that political considerations played a part in the departure from Kabul. Mr. Chairman. What about the sisters Spoozhmay and Storai Manandoi in Argos' broadcast, where one sister was allowed to come, but not the other? My request is: let Storai come after all. Her condition is very questionable. Mr President, concluding. The people who are entitled to this must still be helped as well as possible. Is the government going to do everything in its power to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Seven months ago, Afghanistan lost the battle for democracy. With the coming into power of the Taliban, most of the Afghans who are left behind reside in that country under plight conditions. During the hectic weeks after the fall of Kabul, the Netherlands evacuated about 2,000 people, including 1,110 Afghans who were at risk from their work for the Netherlands and the wider mission. Mr. Chairman. Afghanistan. One would almost forget because of the focus on Ukraine, but Afghanistan is now facing the worst humanitarian crisis in the world due to a shortage of food and medical aid since the takeover by the Taliban. More than 23 million people, including many children, risk extreme poverty. Trafficking in human beings is the order of the day. Renal sales are still on a daily basis. In addition, the situation of women and girls is truly appalling. My group is therefore extremely concerned about the 1,102 people on the Dutch evacuation list, including interpreters of the Dutch mission, who are still left behind under horrible conditions in Afghanistan. These people aren't sure of their lives. Many have gone into hiding and are forced to change places of residence. There is also a group of certainly dozens of people on the evacuation list who are trapped in Pakistan. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what the latest state of affairs is with regard to this group. In addition, several hundred relatives of already evacuated Afghans are waiting for evacuation and reunification with their families. We therefore call on the Cabinet to do everything possible to evacuate these people as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. The situation for the people left behind on the evacuation list is very dangerous. The cries we hear only underline the urgency of the situation. We hear stories on the news such as the interpreter for the Dutch police mission, who was murdered by the Taliban in cold blood on the day of the Parliamentary debate on the evacuations on 14 October 2021. Many family members are at risk because of the work of their father or other family members, the so-called derivative risk. We know cases of young mature sons who have been arrested and tortured because they are related to evacuated Afghans. It is therefore really important to speed up the evacuations as much as possible. I call again on the government to do so. Mr. Chairman. There are a number of points that I do not understand and which, in fact, amaze me. From the reflection and analysis of the evacuation in Afghanistan in the report of the Crisis Plan Bureau, we read that Mr Belhaj's motion of 18 August did not facilitate the evacuation operation: the additional influx increased the burden on the small group of diplomats and soldiers, who had to go to extremes. I would like a reflection from the cabinet, because I also read in the letter of the state of affairs that all recommendations are considered useful. It seems to me to be the reverse world to criticize a motion by a Member of Parliament asking for more commitment from the government. Mr. Chairman. Linked to this, I also read that the well-meaning interventions of Dutch MPs who were in direct contact with people in Kabul, which Mr Boswijk mentioned among others, did not lighten the task for the Dutch military and diplomats in Kabul and sometimes created dramatic dilemmas for them. I get that. We must indeed support these people and I have great respect for the diplomats and the military who have intervened with danger for their own lives. At the same time, however, I would say that if the government and, in particular, the previous rulers had really done their job of evacuating those people, those well-meaning interventions by Members of Parliament would not have been necessary at all. As far as I am concerned, that is the order to be followed. In that sense, I found those comments in the Crisis Plan report far too easy. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u20	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u21	Mr. Chairman. A lot of words have already been said about the fall of Kabul in this house. Two ministers already took political responsibility for what went wrong. Let us therefore, as far as the SGP is concerned, look ahead in particular: what do we learn from this? It is not imaginary that the same situation may arise again. In recent days even the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, where there are many diplomats, has been under attack. The SGP therefore took note with interest of the Crisis Plan report and looks forward to the government's response to it. This research report reveals a number of looming errors and also makes suggestions to correct the bottlenecks. Mr. Chairman. As far as this problem analysis is concerned, there are a number of things that stand out. For example, the crisis team also needs sufficient human and impact power on holidays. A crisis comes almost by definition unexpected and inconvenient. My first question to the cabinet is therefore whether the Minister is working on this. Secondly, with regard to the interpretation dossier, I should like to quote: 'The legal and policy accuracy has curbed the speed of the process. The urgency surrounding the interpreting dossier was similarly low." My question to the Minister of Defence is therefore how this relates to the debate in the Chamber on 8 July, with a strong demand for speed. How did the political and executive parts of the department take hold? Are signals really coming through? I would like to hear an answer, because this seems to me to be important in a general sense. Crisis plan also indicates that the government council asked for detailed information on the possible evacuations. My question is whether the government consultation should focus mainly on the broader lines and political frameworks and not on details? Finally, in this respect, I would like to mention the observed gap between the reality of the Hague and the local experience in the danger zone. My question is what is being done to make this gap as small as possible. Mr. Chairman. The study report also contains clear suggestions for solutions. For example, it is good to avoid a blind spot and misconceptions to explicitly think through undesirable scenarios and opinions of unmatched countries, to actively question the assumptions of directors and to take due note of the observation of diplomats on the ground. It also calls for better cooperation between the posts and the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, General Affairs, Defence and the IND. My specific question is whether these recommendations will be accepted. Crisis plan was also rightly critical of the role of the Chamber. I think we should take care of that. One of the comments was that the flow of parliamentary questions was not good for the effectiveness of the crisis operation. I don't have any questions about that. I think that the Chamber should take this to heart and, above all, we should learn lessons for the next time. Mr President, I have said it before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u22	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u23	I am very much in favour of self-reflection of the Chamber when it comes to tabling motions and other matters that we do. But I am far from taking responsibility when it comes to finding it difficult for the Chamber to ask a lot of questions. The question is, of course, where does it start? Is that if you don't get an answer or if you don't think things are going well? My question to Mr Stoffer is actually about the following. The reflection and evaluation noted what Mr Kuzu already referred to, namely that the Belhaj motion of 18 August did not facilitate the evacuation operation, because the extension of criteria resulted in an additional influx of potential candidates who did not appear on any list. You also participated in that motion. The motion bears my name, but this applies to everyone who supported the motion. Do you agree that it is concluded that by submitting that motion we have actually ensured that this evacuation operation was not facilitated? That is quite apart from the fact that the evacuation would not have taken place at all without that motion and therefore several people would still have been detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u24	I deliberately didn't take out all the elements. I have deliberately appointed the element of the flow of parliamentary questions. It is essential that the Chamber asks questions and receives answers to them. It is also essential that we get good answers. If we are given a number of lessons here, I think we should take them to heart; so should I. 'Cause under the c.s. The Belhaj motion also includes Chris Stoffer. That's not the abbreviation of my name; we've done this with multiples. I think afterwards: would I do that again next time? I must honestly say that I think I would have supported that motion again next time. I, too, have put questions to the House, like many of my colleagues. I used to be a civil servant. I know what it means. I know what a Parliamentary question does. That's a hell of a lot of work. I can therefore imagine that, next time in a crisis situation, I will think about ten times before I ask a question. At least I've given this a lot of thought. I hope I pick it up next time. We are, of course, giving a lot of things to the cabinet and the previous cabinet has taken its responsibility, even to the extent that I think: that would not have been necessary for me, the SGP, at that time. But it's the way it is. As far as I am concerned, these are not very heavy words. But for me, it's like, if you're sitting at home right now, and if you're looking at the next crisis, let's look each other in the eye and keep each other sharp on this. That is a long answer, but I think this is a very essential point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u25	That's right. It is a partial evaluation, and if it is so black-and-white it is important to highlight it properly. The following also applies to written questions. You don't ask written questions if you don't feel that it's necessary to control the cabinet and to know that in this case that was very urgent or that the cabinet is doing enough to save lives, yes or no. Whatever you say about asking written questions, please, and then I will come to my question. On that motion, which therefore never needed to be tabled if ministries simply had their own policies in order, it was noted: the additional influx...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u26	Oh, oh, That's where a phone goes off. Do you need help?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u27	Help is always easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u28	A ruler's phone called something. That was Mrs. Siri, as it's called. But I'm going to continue with my serious question. It says: "The extra influx increased the burden on the small group of diplomats and soldiers who had to go to extremes." I understand that it's human work, but something in this feels a little harsh. That is the lack of communication that you can attract more people and organise things differently. So it feels a bit bad that it says: if you hadn't tabled that motion, we wouldn't have had any problems with the evacuation and it would have affected a lot of civil servants. I would like to ask Mr Stoffer whether he agrees with me that in this context this might be a little unsophisticated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u29	Perhaps a number of things in the report are unsophisticated, and things I am now asking, ask or name. But if you do something, you do it if it's okay with the best intention and the best will in the world. And at the back, when it's over, you just have to ask each other really hard, especially to look ahead. That was also the beginning of my contribution. I don't think it's bad at all to talk about it and have it standing here unsophisticated, and to think about it with each other. That's a lesson for next time, because we can't do anything we've done again. There's no other way. I also think it is important that we make the crisis organisation much better. One of my questions was whether we should not; I would like to hear the answer to that later. I think so too, because this kind of thing might be able to do better. All in all, it's a little awkward, but I'm okay with it being appointed. If we don't name things and it doesn't hurt a bit... your motion says your name, but it hurts me as much as you do. My name is also underneath it, so in that regard it is joint pain. But I will admit once again that I would also sign that motion if I were in the same position at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mr Cedar of the Christian Union and then Mr Kuzu of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u31	I think it is indeed very good to take a critical look at the role of the Chamber itself. I am very much in favour of that. Here's what I'm wondering. In those few days that Kabul fell, saving lives was actually the primary goal, and not necessarily that the organization was running smoothly or that we had a good eight hours of sleep. It was the Chamber, and I think it was the Cabinet, about human lives. Do you then, looking back, believe that the primary objective, thus saving more lives and evacuating people, would have been achieved if fewer parliamentary questions had been asked and one less motion had been tabled? Or do you agree with me there, perhaps you will hear my opinion that those questions and that motion did indeed ensure that the primary objective was achieved, and that perhaps even more people were saved, who otherwise would have fallen within a certain framework or definition and could not have been saved? I look forward to hearing your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u32	I'm not omniscient, thank God. So I don't know. That may be an easy answer, but I don't know if if we hadn't asked the parliamentary questions more people would have been saved or if we had asked them to save more. I don't think the cabinet acted firmly enough on the front to be ready when it had to. If that had been different, the chance that we would have taken more people away and removed them before would have been greater, but the cabinet took responsibility for that. Two ministers said it was hard enough to resign. I myself think that this might have been possible later, but at that time that responsibility has been taken, for which I also have respect. But as far as an exact answer is concerned, I am not going to say that it has cost an extra human life or brought about extra, because everyone has acted with the best intentions. On the front, mistakes were made, but in those days everyone with a good intention tried to make everything about it. But, as I said, it could have been a lot better in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u33	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u34	I still see Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u35	He's gonna give up his interruption for a while now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u36	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Just a few more words. I said earlier on behalf of the SGP that Afghanistan is also teaching us that we need to strengthen our defence. This report also indicates that defence must possess sufficient means of transport. That was one of the problems we encountered. My question is therefore whether the additional budget we are now investing in defence is also being invested in these means of transport. Finally. The economic situation in Afghanistan is bad. We must not forget that. Humanitarian needs are increasing. What is being done for the 22.8 million people in acute food insecurity? Are the Taliban participating in the three priorities of safe passage, aid and human rights? Do we continue to pay attention to sound, definitive, regular reception of evacuated Afghans with this large influx of Ukrainians? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u37	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Valstar of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u38	Mr President, thank you. From this place also thanks to all those Dutch, including government staff and veterans, who guide the Afghans away to safe places and eventually help them further. Because we too are very aware that this can often lead to emotional conversations and painful dilemmas, but ultimately also to joy if, for example, we managed to see that one interpreter with whom our soldiers worked so closely together with his family back in the Netherlands. We therefore find that 300 interpreters and their families have been left behind and are at risk under the Taliban regime, while several times from the Lower House at an early stage, before the fall of Kabul, has been called for the evacuation of this particular group of people. On the other hand, however, we also take hope from the 432 interpreters and their families who succeeded in coming to the Netherlands after the acute evacuation phase. According to the cabinet's letter, some 1,200 Afghans would be eligible to be transferred to the Netherlands. The cabinet does not, understandably, speak of an exact end date, but I would ask the cabinet to outline an expectation, the expectation of how long this evacuation will last. Are we talking about a year? Are we talking about several years? The cabinet also talks about people who eventually renounce the evacuation. Are they finally taken off the list and are they losing their chance with that? That would mean that the expiry date of the evacuation would never actually come into sight. Mr. Chairman. My colleague Jeroen van Wijngaarden already asked for it in an earlier debate: the interpreter's badge. I understand this is awarded to Dutch soldiers who have worked as an interpreter. This interpretation fee cannot therefore be formally allocated to Afghan interpreters. Apart from the fact that the transfer of these interpreters to the Netherlands can of course be seen as a token of appreciation, I would like to ask whether the Defence Department is also looking at another form of appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u39	Mr Valstar actually indicated that he considered an end date for this evacuation to be important. Why? If we know it's still 1,000 people, what difference does it make if they come in a year or two years from now? It's possible they're stuck somewhere. Why does he care about the end date?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u40	That also depends on the question I asked afterwards, about the people who are being taken off the evacuation list because they do not want to be evacuated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u41	I think I understand quite a lot in general, but I do not understand this one. So imagine, when that discussion was really bad, there might have been an image: how long do you have to do that? There was a secretary of state who said 100,000 Afghans would come here. None of that came true, it's 1,000. So imagine, someone's hiding somewhere, which takes a year and a half to eventually be evacuated. Why would you want to set that date? Why shouldn't someone be brought to safety in a year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u42	I do not think I have talked about setting a date either. I asked what the expectation is, how much longer does the cabinet think this evacuation is going to go on? Are we talking about a year? Are we talking about several years? So I didn't intend to set a date here this afternoon. Finally, I would like to point out that there has just been another debate on the interruption with Mr Stoffer and Mrs Belhaj, so it is at the risk that they will be back at the interrupting microphone, a passage from the report The evacuation from Afghanistan, from Crisis Plan. There's another appreciation. The question that Mr Stoffer has already asked and the conclusions that have already been drawn are quite right. Fortunately, we will also be discussing this report at a later date if the appreciation of the cabinet is there. However, I would still like to name one important lesson from that report here, a lesson that we should take on board as the House of Representatives. I quote: "The well-meaning interventions of MPs who were in direct contact with people in Kabul did not lighten the task for the Dutch military and diplomats in Kabul and sometimes created dramatic dilemmas for them. Also, the flow of parliamentary questions reached the Ministry in the middle of the crisis has not done the effectiveness of the crisis operation well. Several policy staff had to be made free day and night for this." From this point on, I would like to wish the Ruys Committee, which is officially starting tomorrow's decision, every success and wisdom. With this passage in mind, I would like to encourage the committee to include the role of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u43	I'd like you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u44	That is what has happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u45	Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u46	What does Mr Valstar think of the NOS message that came out this morning, that political risks of deterioration played a role in the extent to which evacuations could take place? It has been said: 'We don't do an airplane with 300 people in one go; that's too much; do it in small groups'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u47	I saw that message, too. I was also able to read in the message that it was not possible to trace exactly where that came from, who said it. I think it is an excellent role for the Ruys Committee to investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u48	Mr Valstar himself is perfectly capable of giving political judgements. His party is very good at that. This unveiling shows that the balance has been made not to evacuate such a large group of people at once. That would be bad, which would have a political disadvantage. This has put people's lives at risk. Do you share the view that this is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u49	I need some more information. We've seen the Wob request. It's unknown exactly where this came from. The Ruys Committee will undoubtedly go deeper into where these qualifications come from. Let's not pretend that after that, no plane has come this way. After the acute evacuation phase, over 1,000 Afghans have come this way. At the beginning of March a flight with almost 200 Afghans landed on Eindhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u50	Rounding up. I find this extremely cowardly. Mr Valstar has been able to study the dossier very carefully. There have been several signs that the brakes have always been put on. This message is yet another proof of that. You could simply show the political courage here by saying that there has been insufficient action, not enough has been done to save people who have helped us; we have abandoned them. Do you dare acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u51	I am not taking part in Mr Van Dijk's qualification: stand on the brakes. We brought over 3,000 people to the Netherlands. That list is stretched according to the Belhaj motion. As a VVD we were not in favour of this, I admit that immediately, but let us not pretend that the Netherlands is not doing anything to bring all these people here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Valstar. Then we'll go to Mrs. Belhaj of D66. And I would like to ask Members to speak through the President. That means no you, no you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u53	"Education is our right. Open the schools." That's what the women and girls from the Ministry of Education called last Saturday in Kabul. Under the Taliban regime, the right to education for women and girls has been virtually made impossible. The protest, the resistance and the appeal are an act of courage for an Afghanistan where fundamental rights, including for women and girls, are guaranteed. In the past not everything was better, but in Afghanistan over the past few years women and girls could study and work, partly because of the commitment of the Netherlands. In the last summer, everything changed. On August 15, Kabul fell and began the major evacuation operation. It became the priority for the Netherlands to bring all people who had worked for Dutch interest to safety as soon as possible. This was the least we could do for people who had often worked for years at risk for their own lives. This was and is a Chamberwide shared sentiment. Mr. Chairman. My colleagues have asked a number of questions, including about the guards and the laissez-passers, which I would like to join. I thank the cabinet for the letter, but I would like to make a few comments. One. I have a number of questions about the precarious situation there and the completion of the evacuation. The letter provides insight into the numbers: are people still in Afghanistan or are they in the Netherlands? But under what circumstances or in what situation people are still in Afghanistan, there is no answer to that. The Minister calls it "precary situations." I want to know if people are safe or if they have to go into hiding. Does this also restrict people from trying to flee the country? I'd like a response. It is possible that the precarious situation in which we are in may prevent us from being transferred. We must be careful to ensure that after making a concrete suggestion to transfer, as stated in the letter, we conclude that people cannot be transferred and so we leave them there. I'd like a reaction to this, too. In the small debate I had with Mr Valstar this was also about. Mr. Chairman. The predecessor of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Knapen, gave an example of the wife of a Dutch Afghan. Due to the death of her husband, her right to come to the Netherlands formally expired. Mr Knapen said the following. "Did you really think that we would abandon such a woman there? Did you really think so? Of course you don't. No hair on your head thinks about abandoning someone like that." In all groups to be transferred there are such cases to think of. What is the implementation of this and what are the possible bottlenecks? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has 25 additional people. The question to the Secretary of State is how this happened and whether these 650 people are divided among European countries. Mr. Chairman. Then looking forward. We must never find ourselves in a situation like this again. There's a mission in Mali right now where there's a lot of uncertainty. The Chamber adopted a motion, the Belhaj motion in part No. 29 (35925-X), on the responsibilities of the Dutch state towards local personnel on military missions. In order to ensure that a possible evacuation in Mali does not take place as in Afghanistan, I ask the Minister whether he can answer the question as to what is going on with the implementation of the adopted motion. Does staff know where it is? Does it know whether it is being helped in the event of an emergency or whether they should organise something at their own risk? I'm trying to pronounce this as nuanced as possible, but I realize that I actually find it very, very, very sad. The evaluation states that if that motion had not been tabled, we could have done our job well. We asked for policies in 2016. We asked for policies in 2019. It's escalating. We're filing a motion. I would ask you to at least make a policy. And we're eight months away. I don't really understand that. In fact, I do not understand that in such a way that I suggest that in a month's time there is simply a letter in the Chamber with an impact on policy. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost there. We have not or hardly been dealing with Afghanistan in the last five weeks, because there is a war on the European continent. I would also like to make a comment. We are showing towards Ukraine that in five weeks we can do an incredible deal as government, nationwide and local, and as a society. We catch people at et cetera. Of course, the situations are far from identical, but I note that political leadership, decisiveness and humanity are at the root of the impossible. That is why, in my opinion, this can never be an abundance. I call on the Ministers and the Secretary of State to allow the Netherlands, with political leadership, decisiveness and humanity, to take on its duty and responsibility in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u54	Thank you very much. Then I shall first give the floor to Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u55	On 15 August, on the day of Kabul's fall, Mrs Belhaj sent an e-mail to the director of the company that employed all the guards of the Dutch embassy. In that she said: I support your call for evacuation and will put it in a motion. You did. Is it true that you assumed that the embassy's security guards would simply be evacuated in that hot phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u56	Yeah, that's right. I also read something in a newspaper about that. Let me not go into those suggestions. It's true, because it started with those guards. Those guards were therefore also deliberately included in that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u57	Glad to hear it. That was my impression, too. Is it true that no difference has been made in your intention of the motion on the form of contract under which people served, whether that was a fixed contract or that they were employed directly or through a third party? Is it true you didn't make a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u58	Yeah, that's right. At some point, with everyone who supported the motion, we have looked at which groups are most vulnerable. We took it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u59	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u60	Finally, Mr President. We've been seven months. None of these embassy security guards have been evacuated. What does Mrs Belhaj think of the harsh policy of the cabinet to refuse to recognise that we have a responsibility for these people, who sometimes guarded our diplomats in Kabul for eighteen years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u61	It surprised me a little bit. These people were actually the people who started it and went out publicly. In the early stages it was one of the few groups that had all the names in order. That sounds really lame, but that was because it was a private company. My assumption has always been that these people were on the evacuation list. At a later stage, the cabinet gave a further explanation of the motion. At that time, these conditions were laid down: which people are involved and under what conditions? But the assumption has always been that this was the group that was just on that list. Imagine, the cabinet sets additional criteria and they wouldn't be included. Then you'll have a conversation with each other, too. In this case it is quite amazing, because the people were already put on it at first, when the interpretation of the cabinet was not yet on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u62	Thank you. Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u63	I've always said that the Belhaj motion was very good. It was an incredibly important signal and it was necessary. A lot of good things have been done with it. Later, the government undressed the motion. What does Mrs Belhaj now think of the resolution of her motion? Is she satisfied with that? And what does she think of the message this morning from the NIS, which states that political risk of harm was involved in the evacuations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u64	I see it as our joint motion. That motion was made with all the power of thought and all the space in our hearts. She's not perfect. Anyone who criticizes it, I say, yes, right. But we had to make a choice between doing nothing or doing something to save people. The motion remains there forever, as it is now, until the last moment it is executed. The cabinet has given an explanation, especially with regard to the evacuation. The motion contains two important elements. One of them is the evacuation. At the time, the evacuation was very acute. Then we found out it was a mess, in the sense that it didn't go smoothly. Then there was another evacuation. We even had a committee debate on this. I was very happy, but I think we all were. After all, it meant that more people could be saved. I see the motion is still being carried out. I value it to keep her on her feet. Speaking of 'excavation' or 'devaluation' undermines, in my view, where we stand as a Chamber, namely behind the motion. I've asked all kinds of questions about the interpretation. I have a number of doubts as to whether that is going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u65	What does Mrs Belhaj think about the fact that at some point a plane was available to 300 people and that, because of the political risk of deterioration, it was said: we do not; we do it in small groups at the most? Do you think that, with me, is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u66	That was Mr Van Dijk's second question. I was surprised. You don't have to respond yet, because I'm not finished. I don't have to formulate everything unsavory. The qualifications always come naturally. We have often thought, with several Members of Parliament, why isn't it working out? What's that in? People worked very hard in all those ministries. What's it in? I haven't seen all the Wob requests, and I don't know all the nuances. Based on this piece I think: it won't...? Surely it is not the case that we are fighting here on the assumption that there are some obstacles in the ministries to do things and that we still have to push and pull a little bit, but that the core is a political reason? That is not necessary at all, because the Chamber has made a political statement. It is a political wish to bring the people who have worked for the Netherlands to the Netherlands. I don't know where that valuation came from. I don't know which ruler came up with that. I do know that the political mission of the Chamber was perfectly clear: we don't care how you do it, do it. Make sure those people come safely to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u67	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u68	But now we have received the Wob documents this morning. It clearly states: because of political disadvantage we are not going to do so, one aircraft with 300 people in it. Terms are used as "unhandy" and "unhappy." That's the government's "Operation Downplay." But what does the petitioner, Mrs Belhaj, think of this? Surely it is unacceptable that this argument has been put forward here: we are not going to hire such a plane; we are not, because that is a political risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u69	I thought I was pretty clear. Two-way. Very interesting, the Wob, but always note that you see things in the overall context. I don't know what else was discussed. That is why I look forward to the evaluation. I remain a D66'er, so I really think it is important that things are carefully marked, in width, in completeness and care. Contrary to the assessment in which it is equally unannounced that it is the fault of the Chamber that it has not all gone well. Two. I have just made this quite clear in my terms: if this is so, then it is very special, because we, the House of Representatives, are politics. We have indicated by a majority what we wanted the cabinet to carry out. So I don't know what other unsophisticated things Mr Van Dijk wants to hear from me. He has to stop doing that too, because they're definitely there, but it doesn't fit in with this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u70	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Cedar of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Kabul's dramatic fall was seven months ago. Since those chaotic days a large number of Afghans have arrived in the Netherlands. These are people who should have been able to count on our protection, because they have somehow been working on our behalf. But not everyone to whom this applies has managed to get away. Does the Minister agree with me that our responsibility for these people has not ceased and is unchanged? There are still a number of challenges. At present, about 1,200 people are waiting for evacuation. When can we expect these people in the Netherlands? Then I would like to take a look back at the travel documents that could not be provided to people who, for example, had already reached Pakistan themselves. At first it was indicated that it could be done, later laissez-passers could not suddenly be given. We have also heard that other countries could send them by mail. Was there powerlessness or unwillingness? I am also asking this because a number of organisations managed to collect through money to obtain passports through embassies that were still working. That makes it extra harsh. I hope to clarify this. I think it was not impossible, as a number of organisations have shown that it could be done. They've been able to provide passports to a number of people. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, we also received a message today. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to explain what was meant by political risk of impairment. If it is true that the risk of political impairment has been a major argument when it comes to people in an emergency, which was a matter of life and death, then I think we should be ashamed. That is also far from the way I think Dutch leaders should act. This morning, we heard President Zelensky. What a contradiction, what a difference! But I haven't heard everything. I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to clarify exactly what was meant by 'political risk of deterioration' and what the context of the situation was. Mr. Chairman. It is well known that the Taliban and their supporters have unfortunately already killed dozens of former interpreters and officials in the country. In any case, according to the UN Secretary-General, António Guterres at the end of February. Have any of the people on the Dutch evacuation list been captured or died? I would like to expect a concrete answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It has been promised that mercy would look at poignant cases, people who were just outside the scheme. I wonder if that's still true. How should this be dealt with in practice? Can people still find their way to the Ministry in distressing situations and can they count on good consultation? Mr. Chairman. I have two more points. As regards the interim proceedings against the Afghan fixers earlier this week, the judge said that the State had no obligation to bring them to the Netherlands. But the judge also says and I quoot: "Otherwise, the State has indicated that it is still committed internationally to doing something for fixers." I would like to ask the Minister if there are any developments on this point. What's the international connection? What steps have been taken? Are these fixers now with the group of 25 Afghans that the Secretary of State for Justice and Security wants to integrate through the European External Service EEAS? Is it just the 25 or does the Cabinet want to see what is still needed in the circumstances? The SP already asked about Storai's situation. I agree with that. Finally, as regards the analysis of Crisis Plan. It was zoomed in and ministers would look at the matter in detail. Is it true that we've learned from it? Can we now also give the professionals the room to make sure in the implementation that the people who are entitled to be taken to the Netherlands can also be picked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u72	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, citizens at home and in the gallery. As a result of the violence, we almost forget that we were just over six months ago in a completely different international crisis: the fall of Afghanistan. Regardless of the fact that we are not talking about it much anymore in this house, the situation has become no less poignant. Today, many former employees, journalists, fixers and other stakeholders are still waiting for evacuation, while the situation is getting more acute and the Taliban are letting go of their radical ideas with a lot of brutality on people. Critics are silenced, homosexuals are tracked down and horribly tortured and murdered, lovers disappear, women and girls are taken away to develop and live. Education, one of the fundamental human rights, has become extremely difficult or impossible for girls. In that light, my question is what the Minister meant by the only credibility that the Taliban still had. It is all tragedies that threaten to fall into the big picture, but which individually mean the world. The sad thing is that most of the stories do not even come to our ears and remain silent witnesses to the terror of the Taliban. All this while evacuating nuclear family members is far from flawless. There are still underage children trapped in misery, as well as pregnant women and women who had just given birth, but who could not obtain a passport for their new offspring or hold an expired passport. How can we better assist these people and, where necessary, make contact with them? Women are severely oppressed and can't move freely as easily. How can we make it easier for women to renew their passports? There is also a lot of uncertainty among the 1,100 people who are still out there as to whether they are eligible at all. Can the Minister come up with a plan to promote communication with these 1,100 people so that we can give them, and the people who are already here and want to see their family again, clarity? Mr. Chairman. What does an article at the NIS show today? At the end of September we had the chance to evacuate more than 300 people at once. We stood them up. For what? For financial and political impairment risks. We do not know who was at political risk, and that is not yet clear, but hopefully the requested letter of inquiry will be able to clarify this. What we do know is that the imagery rules. Choices are made on the basis of the way in which the rulers and associates concerned can get the most rosy out of it, without too much tears. The fact that this behaviour is at the expense of human lives is very reprehensible. Mr. Chairman. The situation in Afghanistan is a humanitarian tragedy that is probably only going to get worse. The food crisis will have a major impact on the country where there is already a shortage of food, as well as on medical aid. This is likely to result in more refugees. This brings me to a problem within our own borders. Our system of reception and asylum is overloaded. We have great difficulty with the constant flow of refugees, who come from multiple directions due to an accumulation of crises and also deserve shelter here. There is now even talk with municipalities about forcing reception and forced designation of locations, because otherwise there is not enough room. It is high time that the people who have no business here, the so-called safe people, who are hiding the system, left quickly, so that the space can be used for the actual war refugees. What is the Cabinet going to do about this, I ask the Secretary of State. I also have a few short questions. The letter said something about Qatar's flights. Why have they even been suspended? And is there any more clarity as to when they can be resumed? Furthermore, the 2,500 evacués are in the azc's. I wonder how that goes. Will they receive the psychosocial aid they were promised at the time? We talk a lot about traumatized people here. What do we know about their mental and physical health? I understood that project work will not happen anymore at some point, but that it will become a regular journey. Is there any chance that they will be sent back to Afghanistan? Finally, Mr President, I have my final question. I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention to the time. The last question concerns veterans working on buddy projects. I wondered to what extent they are supported, either financially or by means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. The directors have indicated that they need about half an hour to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u75	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the situation regarding the evacuation in Afghanistan, the first term of office. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u76	Mr President, thank you and also thank your Members for all the comments and concerns that have been expressed. It is an extremely important and very complicated subject. I would like to begin by saying that the new cabinet is also keen to regulate as well as possible all the things that still have to be settled, in a situation there in Afghanistan which is still very complicated. I would like to discuss four subjects myself. One. I shall begin with the questions put by Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Piri on the Wob this morning. Two. I would like to say something in general about the questions on security and the political and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. Three. Many questions were about shipment, end date and laissez-passers and I want to do them in the third block. Then I have a few things in the category "other." The Minister of Defence and the Secretary of State of JenV will take care of the issues that affect their own portfolios. I do not think I need to spell that out at all, because I think Members know exactly who is talking about what. Mr. Chairman. Let me just start by saying to Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Piri, and also to the House, that the image from that Wob is simply very unhappy. I would like to explain to you what the last one is. What is it? It's about nine o'clock, in which I've been working on it, a little bit last night, which is the picture I've got of it now. The most important thing I would like to say about this is the following. I put the records of those security protocols in that letter. That's the one on the left in that letter this afternoon. I did that because that security has always been the anchor point that everyone in the ministry was looking at. It was about the safety of the people there in conjunction with the question: do we have the ability to get things done on the ground, where we are no longer ourselves, and to just sort things out? I hope that Mrs Piri, Mr Van Dijk and others will see that too, because if you go through those reports, it is precisely that safety that matters every time. It is not in those reports, but I can say that during that period the STUD has also been talking to STUD on a very regular basis. Of course, this was always about safety. Is it safe? Not for us, because we weren't there anymore, but is it safe for the people themselves? So it's really very unfortunate that it looks like it's about politics. I'll say something about it in a moment, but that security, everyone called on me again today, was really the anchor point for all the officials involved. But that's what it was for the two directors involved. By the way, both of them had just taken office. In my memory, they also just had a lot of credit to fix things. Two. What is, of course, a totally wrong word here is 'political', 'political consequences'. The only way I can reconstruct that has nothing to do with domestic politics. There was broad support from the Chamber for this approach. Two members of the government had recently resigned. At least in my memory there was real credit for Knapen and De Bruijn to deal with. So the image I get back is that it's really a misnomer, a totally wrong word in that context. I have not been able to find out why it has ended up in that report. I can only speculate that this has been meant: the consequences are enormous when it goes wrong in the area of security. Because what was the great fear? The great fear was: a lot of people together and then an attack on a large group of people, with much more suffering. I will say more about it later, but that is why the choice has been made to opt for smaller steps. Later on a flight, 46 people leave, but not 300.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u77	I see people want to interrupt, but I'd like to ask the Minister to finish his story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u78	I very much agree with the questions put by Mrs Piri and Mr Van Dijk on that last piece. That is particularly the suggestion that money would have played a role here. In recent weeks and months, the Ministry and even the Cabinet have spared no effort to make every effort to get as many people here as possible. Honestly, if you have a flight... Let's say you have to rent a flight for half a million and you have 300 people in it, then you get to a few thousand euros. That is a lot of money, but that does not, of course, require further consideration. The only thing I can reconstruct is that people have thought: if you only get five or ten people on such a flight and you spend half a million on it, then you have to do so internally and at least talk to the FEZ department about it. I understand that after that check, it was said that there can be no financial impediment there. That's just what permission came for. I would really like to stress that, when you see how much, quite rightly, money we have spent and how much human power we have put in every day to settle this, at least the picture emerges that money really has not been an obstacle. I would just like to add that, in my view, this has not only been applied in the past, but we will continue to do so. We do that when a ticket is expensive and when it costs a lot of investment to bring people here. We're really gonna keep doing that. Money can't stand in the way of that. My perception is that it didn't happen here either. Mr. Chairman. Then maybe the last. This is the image I got of it. That's why I just wanted to share that with the Chamber. I've just been trying to sketch out those safety counsels. The Chamber can read the reports itself. I hope they recognise that security is always prominent in this. Maybe, given the questions put by Mrs Piri and Mr Van Dijk, I can promise them that we will ask the Ruys Committee to look at this explicitly. They can talk to people. They can examine documents. This is the image that I really get back with great certainty from the about ten people who feel personally very involved. Of course, I was able to see some of those pieces very quickly. That really seems to confirm the story that I am now presenting to the Chamber. But I would immediately say that the Chamber would need to have the Ruys committee look at that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u79	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP and then by Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u80	It is a very strange story, because I have here the report of the operational consultation on 30 September and it simply states that it is still preferable to fill empty seats on flights chartered by others, rather than hiring a charter of its own, because of political risks. Surely the Minister cannot deny that this was the argument?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u81	No, the only thing I can sketch is what I just indicated, namely that that one piece, which comes out through the Wob, shows something very unfortunate in two ways. Of this, I can only say that for this cabinet, but also for the previous cabinet, money and domestic political risks, I am sure, have played no role in any way. But Mr Van Dijk is absolutely right: if you read the report, I can see that when I look at it, too, then that seems to be a suggestion. That is why I asked: now give me all the pieces that show the image of how they were doing it more widely at all. I want that because I was told that safety was on one, two and three. Then came the question: how do we organize it and have the ability to get it settled? That was also a matter of concern, because we had no people on the ground there. I immediately agree with Mr Van Dijk that this picture raises many questions. That is why I wanted to share that broader context. But again, if further investigation would be desired by the Chamber, then as far as I am concerned, we should simply do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u82	It gets even crazier, because the argument "security" is not mentioned at all, and "financial consequences" is. "The risk of no-show remains. Unlike the Doha route, there are also financial consequences for the Netherlands." That wasn't made up, was it? That seems to suggest the Minister a bit, of: yes, it has come in, but it didn't play. This document isn't fiction, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u83	No, I just said there was talk about money, too. There has been specific mention of chartering an entire aircraft. I understand that the main point raised was the fact that filling one whole aircraft presents potentially major risks to safety. That's the broader context. That is why I think it is important for the Chamber to be able to see these documents for itself. The rule of trust works the other way around, but then I don't have to take my word for it. Then one can see for oneself in those parts whether in the opinion of the Chamber that image emerges that the safety of the people there was really very important. Money will certainly also have been discussed in a broader sense. I understand in itself that they are looking at this and that it is also mentioned in a discussion. I think that is the only way in which money should not be allowed to stand in the way of people being evacuated at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u84	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u85	Does the Minister agree with me that the concept of 'political risk of impairment' is referred to as 'financial consequences' and that'security' is not mentioned in this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u86	I have just said that I myself am very unhappy with this report. When you read this report, you get exactly the impression Mr van Dijk gives you. Of course, I asked what that would be like. I really rely on what people say to me. People said to me: no, really, take it from us that every conversation with each other, with the rulers was about security and about whether we can do it. Those were the two primary anchors for which they have been constantly located. Of course, money has also been mentioned. That's what that part shows. Many other peripheral issues have also been discussed, but those were the two anchors. That is why I felt it was so important that we should look at whether this is something else, because that is not what this report shows. Van Dijk is right about that. That's why I sent those other pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u87	Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u88	That security played a role, we can all imagine in the situation in which Afghanistan is in and has been in over the last few months. But perhaps that is also good, because I can imagine that people who are following this debate have no idea what Wob pieces we are talking about here. It is really about the period from 27 September to 1 October. There is a chance to fill an entire aircraft, 300 places, with evacuations for the Netherlands. In all the documents sent to us over that period, security is not put forward as an argument in the discussions on this charter. In fact, the decision list says: "A PIA official has recently been in Kabul and has been positive about the situation at and around the airport." September 29 is a full flight with American evacuations just left Kabul. We're talking about the same period. Mr President, excuse the longer intro, but it will save time for my follow-up questions. What does it say in the pieces? It says on 29 September: "The COA is really full, so we will probably have to keep the groups quite small." It says, also on 29 September, "If a lack of reception places is really going to limit us in flying out, we need to discuss this in good time at high and political level." There was a bwo on October 1st. We don't have the pieces. The next day, an official says: "With these numbers, a charter can be filled, but as was decided yesterday, we will first use the PIA route for small groups." The word "safety" just doesn't appear in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u89	That is why I have just tried to explain that, after I saw that piece, I naturally asked how it went. This clearly evokes a different picture. Then I was told that security was constantly part of that discussion and that it was constantly the reason that STUDY was being spoken to; I am fully convinced that, as a result of hard work in my ministry, people are trying to do justice here to everyone who is in a very complicated situation. Then I asked: but where does it say so and why doesn't it say so? It was then said and simply acknowledged: this piece does indeed give rise to a completely different suggestion. I recognize that, too, equestrian. That's also the big inconvenience. I can only say that my preliminary picture is the following, also on the basis of the pieces I have subsequently seen. Ten people sitting there now, whom I spoke to last night and this morning, said: "It was really primarily about safety. Yes, there has also been talk of money, but there has never been talk of 'political' in the sense of the political risks to the Foreign Minister." By the way, it had just started, so I don't know how many days or weeks. It was about the risk: what if there's going to be an attack on that very large group? That group had to gather first and then get on the plane. Then they chose the route of not 300 but 46; I think that is also in the pieces. That is the choice that has been made. Could it have been another choice after all? Maybe you should've tried with the 300. Maybe in hindsight. Mrs Piri is right that the Americans have succeeded. But this is the image I've been able to pick up in the last ten, twelve hours. Once again, I would like to say that I will probably not have seen all the information; I have not been able to read all the information anyway, so that Maarten Ruys can look into it with his committee if the Chamber needs it. I would like to say this because I want not only the bottom stone to emerge, but also the conviction that I have in the Ministry, namely that it was primarily about security and the possibility of organising it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u90	I would like to believe the Minister, because it's terrible that this is the image that pops up, the image that we get based on four or five pieces that were in the Wob request, including the documents that have just been sent by the Ministry. You shouldn't think that we didn't evacuate people because the shelter here was too full or because it was too expensive? Specifically, on the basis of the information that the Minister now has, the question of safety was not primarily raised: did the reception capacity and financial reasons not play a role in the pace of evacuation and in filling this charter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u91	I am going to repeat what I have just said: my observation is a provisional observation based on the information I have taken to myself and the people I have spoken to so far. They say to me that every day it was with the directors and also the officials constantly about the question "what can we do?" That is actually the second question, namely whether you can organize it and "is it safe?'. And yes, there will be no doubt about money in that consultation. I can't check if anyone in there has said, "What if you spend 0.5 million and you transfer two people, should we?" That is quite possible; I really cannot rule that out. I myself think that even if that plane had been half full and cost maybe a few thousand euros per person, you should still have done it immediately. So I would also like to say to the Chamber that in recent months we have been saving time to get people out of the Chamber; that is regardless of that costs does not matter if you want to get people to safety. That's what I can say. Maybe the Secretary of State for JenV should say something about the reception situation here. But I say again, this is the image I've collected so far. I am very willing to do so. Maybe that strengthens the image I'm sketching, maybe it nuances that image or maybe there are other palette points on it. That is what the Ruys Committee should be looking into.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u92	Of course, it would be fine if the committee were to look at that, if it had no consequences at the moment. But we do not know what was decided in the ministerial meeting on 1 October. A political decision is being referred back to committee. We didn't get those pieces. My discomfort is that we know we have to evacuate more than 1,000 people. And I want to be 100% sure that lack of reception in the Netherlands or financial reasons now do not play any role in the evacuation. So should we wait until the end of next year until we have an overall assessment? That's where I think the inconvenience at the Chamber is. How can we solve that faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u93	In that respect, I can at least be crystal clear. And I suppose the Secretary of State will be as crystal clear as it is about the shelter here. We will save neither expense nor effort. So we will use the opportunity every time there is a possibility. We're not gonna look at a couple of dimes for a plane ticket. We haven't done that in the past either, is my perception now. So we're just gonna do everything we can to get people across. See also the Secretary-General who has recently been there for a number of days. But with this, I'm already ahead of the third block. See also all efforts made daily by a team at the Ministry. There is a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money in it, and that is quite right as far as I am concerned. So Mrs Piri asks: can we promise that money will never be a reason not to explore a particular route or not to walk? I very much agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u94	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u95	Mr. Chairman. I have not heard any of the Members explicitly say that there is also a need for that investigation by the Ruys Committee. But I have at least understood from the discussion that there is not only a need on the part of the cabinet, but probably also on the part of the Chamber for it to be investigated. So I'm just gonna pretend that outstretched hand was accepted, too, because I just think that's important. Hopefully such an investigation will also close the uncertainty that may still exist. That's what I'm telling the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That was the first block. The second part will be a little shorter. That part is about the current situation. I cannot hide the fact that we are still very, very concerned about the way the situation is developing there. I think we're all worried about them. We have all seen the reports recently about girls who are not allowed to go to school. Well, I don't think we were all so naive that we thought it would soon be rose-scented and moonshine, but there has been very explicit communication by the Taliban, several times, that one would behave differently than in the past, for example in the field of education for girls. So far, the conclusion has been extremely depressing, because at least this last point has been postponed. The choice has been made to first see how this should be brought into line with the Sharia. I believe that was the wording. This is happening in a situation where I think we are all in the position of: first seeing, then believing. In such a situation, this is just extremely bad news. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there are still situations that are really dangerous for individuals. Mrs Belhaj referred to that, among other things. Given the number of people killed, we are fortunately in a very different situation than the hot phase at the beginning. But the overall situation in Afghanistan, especially for individuals, is worrying. And the human and women's rights situation remains virtually as worrying in the world as it is there. I'm afraid I can't make it any better. So that's what we're all very worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u96	I'd like to come back to those girls who aren't allowed to go to school. I was surprised at that tweet about the only credibility of the Taliban. We're not naive here, are we? The Taliban says: "We'll see how that goes and maybe it's going well." We don't believe that's gonna happen anyway, do we? We don't think, "Well, we'll have to wait and see, and maybe we'll be okay?" It can't be true that we believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u97	There are many things that are blamed on me in life, but not generally that I am naive. In my opinion, there is no one here in the Chamber who has thought that the country will make good on the arrival of the Taliban. On the contrary, there have been ever-great concerns, both by the cabinet and by me personally, about what this would mean for the human rights situation in particular, and in particular the situation of women and young women, of girls. So there's no misunderstanding about that. I speak purely for myself, but personally I have been quite gloomy about it, even more gloomy than what may have come out of it before and what the Taliban have called out. But the fact is that the Taliban have repeatedly said to all kinds of gremia: here we are going to take a different path. Then all kinds of people have always said: well, then we're going to hold you to that. I think it is important to indicate, also to the community in the Netherlands and to the community in the world, that once again a suggestion, a promise, is broken. That's why I said that. Especially if they are the ones who say "yes, but we have promised you so," let us also articulate that that is once again a broken promise on something that is absolutely essential to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u98	First of all, I'd like to correct something. I didn't say the Minister was naive. I said we're not naive here anyway. By that, I mean "all of us," so that's not a personal accusation to the Minister. But what consequences does that have now? You can't negotiate with a regime like the Taliban, can you? We say to the east, "They're just gonna light you up."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u99	That is, of course, extremely uncomfortable. In committee debates we also had exactly that discussion. Part of the Chamber said 'it is a good thing that the Minister was not sitting at the table in Norway', because that is precisely why people find this extremely unpleasant. That was then about how the West should and should not behave in that situation. So I have exactly the same inconvenience. Of course, we are not trying to justify that regime in any way, but at the same time we are trying to see how we are doing justice to the situation of those 1,200 people, whom we are delighted to get out of that country. I think we should go through with that. So that means that we are very active, but that is mainly about things that we try to do in a practical sense and also about contacts with Qatari and Pakistani, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u100	Mrs. Van der Plas, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u101	Sure, I get that. I can see how it's rubbing. It's easy for me to talk here in the room, while you're at a high level bringing people here and you're dealing with a regime that's just totally unreliable. But it must not, of course, lead us to tolerate it and say: it must be that way. Because if you give them a finger, they'll take the whole hand. I am also a little afraid that resources, including financial resources, will go to organisations to help people there, and that they will end up with the regime. Good things are also being done in agriculture in Afghanistan, for example by Europeans who help people to provide their own food. But I do not want the money to go directly to the regime or the regime to receive direct support from us as long as crimes against humanity are committed there. Because not going to school with girls is just the tip of the iceberg. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u102	I very much agree with Mrs Van der Plas. But not letting girls go to school as the tip of the iceberg shows exactly why we have such a fundamental problem with the regime. Because that's not a trifle. That's not something we can let pass. That just means saying to the female half of that population, "You're out." We go back to something that mainly represents the Middle Ages or back to the situation as when the Taliban came to power earlier. So, frankly, I'd like to make it even wider. Under no circumstances will the cabinet cover that with the cloak of love and will it continue to work for it, I personally, but also the others in the cabinet, to declare that this is unacceptable wherever that opportunity occurs. We think it is very important to carry that out. I am not talking about all the other violations of human rights that have unfortunately been and are still, to some extent, on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u103	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u104	Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer and Mr Boswijk asked what we are doing with food insecurity. That is entirely in line with what Mrs Van der Plas just said. Last year, as an international community, including the Netherlands, we provided humanitarian funding. In 2022, the contribution of the Netherlands is over 25 million. There is also a contribution of 5.1 million through the Dutch Relief Alliance. The state of affairs is that the Taliban have promised to allow this aid. Humanitarian aid organisations report that they are indeed given unrestricted and independent access to Afghanistan. That is also the way in which this should be done, and that is exactly what Mrs van der Plas underlined. Mr Boswijk asked about the Northern Alliance. The information we have at the moment is that the Northern Alliance no longer plays a significant role. I do not rule out the fact that our information is not complete. This means that the whole humanitarian and political situation may be a little less terrible than it was eight or nine months ago. But it is still extremely worrying. I think we're all afraid we won't be done with that for a while. Mr. Chairman. I'm ready for the third block. That's about the people we've already transferred and we'd like to pass on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u105	Before you proceed, Mr Boswijk has one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u106	Can I understand from this that the international community has actually accepted that the Taliban is sitting there? Can I understand from this that there is actually no scenario in which we can help the groups within Afghanistan to get a little perspective? I think that the Taliban is never going to change entirely to a more positive image.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u107	No, for the latter, I fear with great fear. However, there must be bodies and, in this case, organisations, units and tribal groups of sufficient size to be able to support them. Precisely because they no longer play a significant role, my perception now is that there is no immediate gremium to support. That does not mean that the international community has given up. Mr. Chairman. As I indicated, I would like to say a few things about the shipment. Mr Valstar rightly asked, as far as I am concerned, how we should now proceed with a possible end date. I think it is really important to outline here as well, is that we continue to do so as long as necessary. We have really transferred a very substantial group, but there is also a large group that still needs to be transferred. It's really hard to estimate how long it's gonna be before it's done. That's what you see in the evolution of numbers. There's been a lot of work on the Pakistani route. I am also very grateful to Pakistan for what has been done there before. I'll tell you more about it in a minute. The secretary-general has been there. I called about that myself. That meant that suddenly we could get a relatively large group of a few hundred, I believe 300, this way. Today another group of 30 people arrived in the Netherlands. By the way, that happened on a different route. This goes on: sometimes drip, sometimes shock. But it could go on for a while. At least for the time being, I do not see a moment when we would say: we have tried for a while now, so let us stop. We will continue to work for it, even if people are difficult to reach in the first instance. If, for example, they say in six months or a year's time that they still want to use it, we will try to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u108	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Belhaj, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u109	That's very nice to hear. But for me, that confusion also arose a little from the letter. I can't read it all. But it does say the following. "It is intended to continue this process until all persons who may be eligible have been transferred, or at least have had a concrete suggestion for transfer. As soon as that time comes, an end date for the transfer process will be determined and communicated with data subjects." I was a little scared of this. You'll get an invitation, of course. I also hope that those who can make use of it and get an invitation at some point. I think the Minister says it differently, or I just misread it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u110	One is in line with the other. It is in the letter, but I would also like to say clearly to the Chamber and to Mr Valstar that, as far as I am concerned, the curtain does not fall at the time you came by once. In my opinion, the concern as I understand Mrs Belhaj's is that if someone says 'I can't do it right away', we will say: yes, but next week the window will close. I think you really should take another substantial period. I can also imagine that for some people the security situation is fluid and that there are times when they think "I can actually stay," while a few months later they think: this is unsafe. At the same time, you cannot allow this to exist for decades. That is clear to all of us, I think. For the time being, I'd like to do everything I can to get as many people here as possible. I would also like to make sure that we have at least talked about it to everyone who decides to stay. Our assessment is that some of those people themselves will say: we really want to stay. Then it's gonna end, but that's not gonna be for me anytime soon. Moreover, I will always take the Chamber into account; I will not decide on this at an afternoon's notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u111	That is a very good thing, but whether it takes a few more years or not: I would like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to inform the Chamber first, at the time of that intention, before we start to do so, otherwise we will have the communication and we will have the debate. It will usually be a very interesting debate, but I would appreciate it if you could communicate it to the Chamber before you act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u112	Let's agree: I will communicate my intention to the Chamber. My suspicion is that, above all, the facts we get back about the people there are going to determine to a large extent whether it is reasonable to stop or not. If almost everyone is actually sitting here, then it makes sense to say at some point: we stop the operation in full width, but we always have ten people. If they were to say 'I want to come' at a later date, they could still knock. At least you'll be able to scale it down. It is also conceivable that there will be a much larger group that will say in one or two years' time: I really want to stay. That is so hard to predict that I actually want to make it dependent on what we see in Afghanistan itself. That's what I want to make policy on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u113	I have one more comment to make as to why it is important to go through with it. The interpretation system was an open-ended arrangement. The cabinet said at an earlier stage that this is not the case. I never really understood why not, because at some point the people who are covered are here. But I am reassured by these comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u114	It's such a fine little structure that was made earlier that I really want to stay within the agreements in all areas. The motion that bears the name of Mrs Belhaj, but which almost everyone was under, or perhaps literally everyone, is part of that too. We're about to talk about the list we made with the Chamber. I'll come back to the question of how you deal with harrowing cases. I'll get to that in a minute. I will say exactly the same thing as Mr Knapen said earlier. I think the explanation I just gave to it is essential. I just want to see how we do justice to the people there. That is why I gave a somewhat longer answer to Mrs Belhaj's first and second interruptions. I think I have answered Mr Valstar's questions. Mr Boswijk asked about the people who were brought in by NGOs and who might be excluded. I understand 670 people have been brought in by NGOs. Of these, only a small proportion, 43 people, will not be eligible for transfer after careful review. That is because the employee did not meet the criteria of that special provision. Usually, a proposed person did not meet the definition of a nuclear family member. Mr Van Dijk asked: can't you expect people to apply for passports to a government they fear to prosecute? I understand that notion very much in itself. At the same time, in October, we carefully began to suggest that people should ask for a passport if they dared to do so. In the meantime, it is also clear that some of these people do manage to obtain a passport. That is why, in December, it was widely recommended to do so, although I agree with Mr Van Dijk that this is not an option for everyone. Fortunately, quite a few people have succeeded. Then some answers in the Pakistani category. There was a question about Mr Van Dijk. There were several questions from Mrs Piri. There was also a question from Mr Kuzu. When the Pakistani offer came, it was only just clear what this special provision would look like. That's the letter of 11 October. It is really important to say that, unlike other countries, we have submitted two lists. That's what my predecessors did. We filed a list on November 15th. That was the actual deadline. We submitted a new letter on November 29th. That was after the deadline. Those lists only included people who specifically authorised them. That makes sense, too. It took a few months, of course. I very much appreciate the Pakistani government's willingness to help. We are considering that is also an answer to the questions, I think we should submit a third list as soon as possible. We will do so in close cooperation with Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom, which also have many people to convey. Mr Van Dijk asked if it was a one-off action. As far as I'm concerned, it wasn't. This is the way we did it. We didn't let that first deadline stop us either. I would like to say the following in the direction of Mr Kuzu. He is right: there is still a group of people in Pakistan. The possibilities for leaving Pakistan are limited, but we are also working on this. The embassy in Islamabad is working to find a solution precisely in cooperation with the Pakistani authorities. Perhaps this can be done in the form of a third list. We'll keep in close contact about that. If there is another way, then of course we will. Mr. Chairman. Then the laissez-passers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u115	Before you proceed, Mr. Kuzu, DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u116	I have an informative question about that. What exactly are the bottlenecks that prevent us from achieving this evacuation in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u117	What I understand is that they are often people without a passport or without a valid visa. So they crossed the border without a valid document, and there was no permission to do so. We have to accept the fact that a country then attaches itself to it and says 'the possibilities of leaving Pakistan are limited'. We remain committed to this group. Once again, we will certainly be able to take a third step in good consultation with the Pakistanis, probably in close cooperation with Canada, the United Kingdom and other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u118	That reminds me of the discussion we had almost a year ago, because at that time we also had to deal with a situation where you could give people a laisser-faire so that they could cross the border. Now they have crossed the border on their own and are in another country. Well, we still can't get it done. That doesn't feel so good. I'm not comfortable with that. So I would like to call on the Foreign Minister and all the staff involved to speed this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u119	Sure. I may also have to say that I am not easily satisfied with this dossier, but when, in January-February, after political contact and after a visit by the Secretary-General, we managed to transfer a group of 300, that is a short moment of satisfaction. That is really very strong when you look at the number of still about 1,500 that still had to be transferred. Then you want to move on. We will continue this dialogue, but I would also like to say here in the Chamber that I do appreciate the willingness of my Pakistani colleague and also the Pakistani authorities to take a favourable look at this and to help make it possible. It really made a lot of difference, just for this 300. Mr. Chairman. Then the laissez-passers. In that hot phase we managed to get laissez-passers accepted. Officially, that is not allowed. We are talking here about the summer of last year, according to the Dutch Passport Act. There was then contact from the Ministry with the Afghan ambassador to ask if those laissez-passers might be a means. Normally these are only documents for Dutch people. A laissez-passer is a document that you make available to a Dutchman so that he can travel on with the aim of returning to the homeland. We checked whether we could also distribute those laissez-passers to people without a Dutch nationality. I have just understood that there has also been contact with the Ambassador, but unfortunately that has not been possible. Mr. Chairman. The question of other countries has also been asked. We have not been able to verify whether other countries would have been able to take this route with their own laissez-passers. I can't rule out the fact that this did happen. I haven't been able to find any information on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u120	Mrs Belhaj, D66, and then Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u121	Since last June, we have been discussing the issue of laissez-passers. Each time it is said that it is not possible or that it is very difficult. As a chamber, we understand that. At some point there will be a motion from Mrs Piri who says she will. If something is not possible in a moment and there is a political desire to make something possible, you have three options. You say: I'm gonna put it aside; I'm gonna do my best; or in this case, I'm gonna make sure we change something policy-wise or legally, if necessary temporarily with a good frame-up why it's an exception, to make it possible. I notice every time a "it can't" answer follows, but in fact anything can. You just have to do something for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u122	I very much agree with the latter. That was exactly my question. That's what I asked at the Ministry. Was it only the Passport Act that stood in the way of providing people with a laissez pass at that hot stage? Because, please, distress breaks the law. The answer I received was that this was indeed tried. There has been contact, also with the Afghan ambassador here, to allow this to happen for people who had no option under the Dutch Passport Act, in the category of distress breaks law. It was said at the time: no, it can't be. In the meantime, I understand that the new regime, the Taliban, does not accept this, just like the legitimate regime we had before the Taliban took over. So it's not a financial issue. I'd be happy to dive into that again. I do not think that the Dutch Passport Act is the obstacle, but it must work. It's got to be something we're allowed to do. Once again, laissez-passers are meant for your own subjects. Would it be so that the Taliban would eventually accept this and that this would be a route to get more people to go this way, then I agree with the Chamber so I understand Mrs Belhaj that perhaps you should also see if you can do something with that Passport Act. I should really check, because I just don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u123	Mrs. Belhaj? That's nice. Jasper Van Dijk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u124	If so, why were 250 laissez-passers sent to Afghanistan on 14 August?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u125	That happened exactly for the reason I just outlined. I understand there were two reasons. The first is that people were hoping that it might be possible. An "emergency breaks law" scenario may be accepted. Two. You have to take serious account of the possibility that Dutch people sitting there do not have a passport. So they also need a laissez-passer. So that people have thought on their own "let's send those things there, because then we have them there," I really think it's fair. That's what I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u126	I'll take a look at Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u127	I have one more question about the current situation. Can't the laissez-passers also be used in Pakistan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u128	Maybe one more thing, by the way. I think Mr Van Dijk said 250. I mean, I think it was only about 50 of them, but I should check it out. Pakistan I should check. I don't have a ready-to-use answer to that right now. Again, I'd be happy to see if that route can be followed. I agree with the House that if you want to overcome a legal barrier in the Netherlands in itself, you have to weigh the advantages and disadvantages with each other. That's what I should do with the Chamber. I can understand that you're orienting yourself on that. But that is different from the things you have no influence on, namely: will that be accepted later? If it is not accepted, even in the context in which we would be willing to take steps in it, it is all "if... then" then there is no point. Then we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u129	This minister doesn't know that, but we've been debating these laissez-passers for months. I dare say that it is not clear to us today when or when they can be provided. But I welcome this Minister's commitment and his willingness to look at it. Here's what I'm wondering. If there are people in Kabul who can't fly out on a charter flight, or they have to go to a neighbouring country, isn't it much more important that the Pakistani or Iranian authorities accept the laissez pass instead of the Taliban they'd rather not meet on a road to a neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u130	I'm not sure. Mrs Piri says: we have discussed it a great deal. I'm sure there are some pieces in this discussion that Mrs Piri knows a lot better than I do. I think you should always have the willingness to see to what extent there are actual barriers. Are these barriers that you cannot overcome yourself, because they occur there? What can you do for yourself and what are the pluses and minuses of that? Perhaps there are very good legal reasons not to want it. I don't think that looking at it on its own is a crazy idea. My proposal is to inform the Chamber in writing about the laissez-passer somewhere in the next few weeks. Apparently there is also noise, unclearness, about how that happened earlier. I can take that with me. I can therefore include the number I believe to be 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u132	Mr President, I would like to add that I do not wish to interfere with the fragile structure that was built earlier with the previous rulers. This has all kinds of other consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u133	Thank you for the commitment. You don't have to bring in history. I think it's good to know what's possible now. Can you take a comparison from neighbouring countries, i.e. other European countries, so that we know whether they are able to get rid of people with laissez-passer? If you'd like to bring such a comparison, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u134	As far as that goes, because until now we have not been able to verify that other countries have succeeded in doing so. I'd like to investigate, but I don't know if it's possible. It is not excluded that I will say later that we have examined it and that it does not seem to be possible, but that Mrs Piri will find a case in which someone has succeeded in this complicated situation. Mr. Chairman. As far as the harrowingness is concerned, I have already indicated...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u135	Mr Ceder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u136	I see the Minister's going to another point. I just want to get back to how we've been dealing with people who haven't had papers in the last few months. I have also indicated in my contribution that Dutch organisations, not associated with the Ministry, have managed to provide people with valid passports, namely through active Afghan embassies abroad. That's what private money was collected for, through collection schemes. The Dutch have given generously. Then €700 passports were purchased and they ended up with the people, so they could cross the border. I wonder why the Ministry didn't do that. Why didn't the officials come up with that idea, or did they come up with the idea, but did they decide not to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u137	Again, I have to take this example from Mr Ceder, but in itself a €700 expenditure on a passport does not lead to the question of whether it would then be possible to cross the border and take a flight. That's the last thing we wouldn't want to do. That goes without saying. But I really should go into the example in order to be able to interpret it properly. I would like to say once again to the Chamber, precisely because of the sensitivity with which we started the debate, that such a sum never stands in the way of taking or not taking a route.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u138	It would indeed be nice to have a reaction to this. You can do that in writing. I think this is a route that may be creative, but not impossible. In recent months, as a Member of Parliament, but for the whole Chamber, the suggestion has been raised that it was impossible to achieve this. To clarify this point, I would ask the Minister to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u139	Then what I will do is take that into account in the letter I just promised to Mrs Belhaj. I hope we can get it to the Chamber in a month. As far as I am concerned, I will provide this point with an answer. Mr President, poignant cases. I already told you, I really want to stay with the appointment that Boys made here. I believe that this has been done carefully and after wide consultation with the Chamber. All kinds of lists have been reviewed and, in the end, the Belhaj motion has been adopted with very broad support. That can be found in that table. And yes, not only did he let his heart speak about one particular example, but he also did what I think is absolutely justified. That is also the way in which I want to continue to do so. These types of cases occur sporadically and are viewed along those lines. Van Dijk asked for a specific example. What I find complicated is to discuss individual cases here, about two sisters.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is also because of the GDPR. I do not think I should do that, but I would like to say to the Chamber in general that I am in favour of Knapen's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u140	However, it raises the question of how to deal with harrowing cases if the Minister does not want to deal with specific cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u141	There are already answers to questions that have been asked. That was in the wake of that documentary. I find it complicated to have a further discussion here on the precise aspects of this case. I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u142	I regret that, but I would like to ask a more general question. The Belhaj motion was tightened in October. Nevertheless, there were people who sent an e-mail to the Foreign Office in good faith in the period before that, hoping to be evacuated. Why have these cases never been helped under the old interpretation of the Belhaj motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u143	In my opinion, however, Van Dijk knows that much better, so I really want to refer to that building, which was first made a general list. People could sign in via e-mail. That has become a very long list. What I understood about it, however, is that the Members of Parliament know much better about it and that they also have the history of the debate in their head. It is that the Belhaj motion gives direction, but also restricts the group. He also says that not everyone is subject to the motion. In fact, a lot of people who have sent an e-mail before are not included. You can tell by the numbers. What I want to do is to con amore, without doing anything about it, to keep to the arrangements made with the Chamber. I believe that they have been confirmed in various debates, last but not least in the budgetary discussions with Mr Knapen. It was also discussed at that time. At that time, I think it was very explicit: this is how we are going to do it, and we will always keep an eye on poignant cases. But that's different from the initial list. I don't want to add or take anything off. I just want con amore, with an eye for shining cases, to continue to perform.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u144	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u145	That mailbox was closed on September 17th. So there are all those who have reported in good faith until September 17 with the request to help them. Then there was a new explanation of the Belhaj motion. That's why some people are now fishing behind the net. Do you not think it is reasonable and fair to say that the people who made a legitimate report before 17 September should be helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u146	I think there has been a lot of talk with the Chamber about this. A lot has been said about all the pluses and minuses, about all the frameworks or broader arrangements. I believe, with a dossier with so many sensitivities and so many exchanges of views between the Chamber and the Cabinet, and with a cabinet that has said from the outset that it went on along the lines of the previous cabinet, that we should take the whole package in the same way. That means nothing off, nothing there, with a real eye for poignant cases, and just doing that con amore. I think that is exactly the right balance. There has been a great deal of talk about this and I believe that it could also count on broad support in your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u147	At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. I understand that talking about individual cases is very complicated, especially because of the privacy of the people. I have a lot of trouble with that, because my heart says it would be very nice to negotiate with each other here whether or not that is possible. Mr Van Dijk has a point. That is two-fold, but let me confine myself to one aspect. That's about the coulance. You can interpret coulance in two ways. You have a coulance for people who are just outside because they are a year too old and are therefore not eligible for family reunification. And you have a coulance that relates to the crisis situation as it was. That's what we're actually talking about. I don't think we've talked about that very often. You'd be on a list, you'd be off that again, but you'd still be in danger. That's actually what we're talking about here. I would like to ask the Minister, even though he is not personally concerned about it, whether he would prefer to look at some of these cases himself. Looking at these people and asking you the question: can you apply coulance because things went wrong in that crisis situation? I don't mean the scope of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u148	Precisely because this is so complicated and precisely because of history, Mr Knapen has discussed with the Chamber in an almost philosophical way why you should not organize your own category again for distressing cases. Because then you have another poignant case that does not fall into the category of poignant cases. That is precisely why I want to stay as close as possible to the recipe as agreed between the Chamber and the Cabinet. That means that we are really looking at poignant cases in the Ministry. By the way, we have done that again recently. I understand that Mrs Belhaj says that she would like to negotiate on this subject in a humane way, but I would think that is really wrong. I think she agreed with me in her conclusion. So I heard her right, but I think we should continue with it this way, with all the pluses, all the minuses, all the compassion and also all the discomfort. I think we should do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u149	I agree with the Minister, but I would ask him to think again about it and see if coulance can be applied, because sometimes things have just gone wrong. I am not talking about the scope of the interpretation, which was also a request from the Chamber. But in a particular case a ruling has been made by a judge who has indicated to the cabinet, or to the minister, to reconsider coulance, perhaps because of evacuation. Not specifically in this case, but as a result of that statement and because of the unfortunate communication, I ask him to take a closer look at whether there are opportunities to exercise coulance, because some things have just gone wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u150	I don't want an inch to the left, I don't want an inch to the right. I know how sensitive it is here in the Chamber. In a human sense, which I personally can imagine very well, and also in a political sense, this building has been extensively crafted. This has not only been done by the rulers, but it has also been actively incorporated into the public debate by the Chamber. I hear someone saying 'the coalition', but I believe that there has been a very broad dialogue on how to deal with it. At least everyone's been making their voices heard from them. I think we should do it that way. Again, with all the pluses, all the minuses, all the compassion and all the discomfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u151	No, no, Mrs. Belhaj. I want the Minister to finish his story now. We have another debate tonight. We now have two rulers to go, and you still have a second term. So I'm asking the Minister if he wants to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u152	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I was actually at the last block, but that's very thin. Mrs Van der Plas, as well as Mrs Piri, asked how we specifically help women in obtaining valid travel documents. I hope I have been able to say that we are doing so in general. And if we can help women and girls who are in such a complicated situation, we will do so immediately. Mr. Chairman. There are one or two other things in the category. Mr Boswijk asked about the investigation into the role of the Chamber itself. At least that's not up to me. As far as research into the role of NGOs and interim reports is concerned, I understand that the Committee of Inquiry will soon be discussing the research assignment with Members of Parliament. In any case, as far as I am concerned, it is very important that the committee should be given sufficient space to investigate before reporting. Any intermediate reports I really find to the independent committee. I think Mr Boswijk agrees with me. Mr Ruys is someone who is extremely gifted in this type of work. He's had years of experience. In my view, he is going to do this very well with an excellent and highly qualified committee. Mr. Chairman. Then I guess I'm almost done. I would like to say to Mr Stoffer and Mr Kuzu that we are working on the points of improvement. They also asked about the crisis plan. The progress of this will also be in this direction by the summer of 2022.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u153	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. We're going to see the Secretary of Defense. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all Members for their input in the first term. It's the first time I've been allowed to talk to the Chamber about Afghanistan. I would like to repeat what some have already said today, namely that the eyes of the world are now focused on Ukraine. But our important work for Afghanistan and the people in Afghanistan continues. It is important to talk about this as well. In the past period I have tried to explore what has been going on here and what is still going on here. I did that by reading files, of course, but also by talking to people. Among other things, I spoke with evacuated interpreters, who are in the Netherlands with their families. I also spoke with soldiers who were directly involved in Kabul last August, and also in Islamabad. So they did the evacuation. I spoke to officials who were on the crisis team and then worked 24/7 to man that crisis team and bring the people here. Their stories have given me an image of a very profound and very intensive period, just as some of the people present have undoubtedly experienced it. I am truly grateful to all those who have worked hard for the proper execution and successful outcome of the evacuation. But we're not done yet. That is why we are here today to talk about what we are doing and what we can do in the current circumstances and with the efforts we are making to do so. Of course, we also need to learn lessons. We do not need to wait for the evaluations, which are very important. What we can do already, we have to do. I shall now turn to Mrs Belhaj's question. It is incredibly important that we will be able to learn lessons for the future thanks to good and detailed research. Mr. Chairman. I'm just wondering the questions. I've tried to cluster them a little bit. I'll start with Mr Stoffer. He asked: if you look at, for example, the debate this Chamber held on 8 July on the interpretation dossier and if you look at how things were going in August and how things are going now, how do you judge it? I'm just going to summarize his question. Partly, of course, the research will be about that. We will see what the Ruys Committee will say about this. But now, when I look at that period, I see what happened when it came to the interpreter's test, the check. The Chamber is well aware of this, you know. Was this a person who worked for us? A very wide network of military commanders and veterans was used. There is a sense of urgency, which was also built up. Defence was, of course, responsible for transferring Afghan interpreters and staff who met the requirements of that time. I think that urgency was certainly felt by the staff, the military planners, the KMar and the carriers. The result was an evacuation of a group of 500 Afghan interpreters and other Afghan employees, including nuclear families, who were transferred to the Netherlands. I have also spoken about this with people involved. I experience a great deal of involvement with them. We have seen a real increase in the number of applications during that period. The Chamber has, of course, discussed in detail what happened after that. I'm about to come up with what we can do right now. As is well known, the interpretation system is not limited, let me just say. So even now, people can sign up for that. That's just the way it's gonna stay. I thought Mr Boswijk asked how we deal with harrowing cases. I would like to endorse what Mr Hoekstra has just said about this. He also stressed that we are fully in line with what Mr Knapen said in the debate last October. He then explained that distressing cases cannot be included in a regulation, precisely because you want to create that exception and cannot limit it. So you have to be able to make an individual assessment. Mr Hoekstra said the same thing. This is therefore a space to be used in individual cases. Of course, you should always be reluctant to discuss individual cases in the Chamber. I can give you an example more generally. We've been wondering how we could deal with some of the Afghan army's female gender specialists. They were not formally employed by the Netherlands, but the Netherlands did give them training and collaborated with them. That is why I decided that they should be eligible for transfer. In the case of any person requesting a transfer, the greatest care must always be taken to determine whether he or she is eligible. As a result, Mrs Piri asked about Afghan family members who are now active in the Dutch armed forces. That's true, of course, because there are people working in the Defense Department with an Afghan origin. In some cases, of course, it is very hard for them to have family members who are not part of their nuclear family and who are still in Afghanistan. We have said that you cannot actually make a general exception for that, because then you should, of course, do so for many other groups as well. But in specific cases it is possible and therefore you must want to assess it on a case-by-case basis, at least when it comes to adding these people to the active transfer scheme. Of course, it doesn't apply if they came to the Netherlands in another way. Then I come to the lessons learned, the evacuation and Mrs Belhaj's question. It has already been reported to the Chamber that we are working on improvements to the crisis plan. We are doing this on the basis of Mrs Belhaj's motion. It means that a lot has to be done. It means that evacuation plans had to be updated in several countries, including Iraq and Mali. That's what happened. It means that the administration of local staff in missions had to be updated. This must be done retroactively on the basis of the mission archives available. I can inform the Chamber that it has been completed for Iraq and that Mali is now being worked on. After that, this should apply to new missions every time. The CDS, the Commander of the Armed Forces, has ordered that the local staff be registered in missions. That's the usual way now, because that's how it's supposed to be. But in these missions we have put things in order retroactively and on the basis of what is in the archives. And in the case of Mali, it's still going on. That's a separate question, but I'll let him answer it. It also looks at solving existing problems in the field of strategic air transport. Mr Stoffer pointed that out. That is a very valid point, which has already been recognised by the previous cabinet. The previous cabinet decided three years ago to replace the C-130s earlier. That was something that was only planned for eight years, but that was brought all the way forward then, so that the new devices can also become available earlier. But that is not enough, because of course it will take time. These devices must be ordered, purchased, made and delivered. That's gonna take time, but that replacement project is running. That is important and so it is much sooner than originally foreseen. At the same time, we also want to ensure by buying extra hours that we can have more capacity when you need that capacity. The point is that you actually need some sort of guaranteed basic capacity that you can use any moment in crisis conditions. So in the future we should actually have a combination of sufficient own capacity, available for very special circumstances, conditions that can occur at any time. We also need more capacity, but we can do that by doing what we already do: pool and share with others. That's a great system for times when you can plan, because you don't need that capacity very often. If you can plan it well, then it is wise to share it with other countries. But we also need to make sure that our base is in order. So we're gonna do that for now by buying in extra hours. In addition, we are replacing the current fleet of transport aircraft.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u155	I had the impression that this was the answer to my question on the motion. This motion calls explicitly for a framework to be drawn up. I hear that something has already been implemented, but it calls for a framework on the responsibilities of the Dutch state towards local personnel on military missions. So if it is actually being implemented, I think it is very important that those frameworks and policies go to the Chamber so that we can find some of them. Otherwise we will have another motion - Belhaj or perhaps even a motion - Van Dijk. Mr Van Dijk would like that very much. But I do not know whether this is the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u156	Mrs Belhaj is absolutely right to come back to that. In fact, I took up air transport for a while, but I had to say the following. I have outlined how we are doing this now in the ongoing missions from the Defense Department and how we have anchored it at all, so that it will be in order next time on other missions. That's very important. But the context of this is, of course, wider. It's something Foreign Affairs, JenV and Defense need to do together, so we always know how to deal with local personnel in mission areas, where, of course, we can talk about more than just military deployment. We're still working on that. We are very aware of the fact that the Chamber has asked for this. They're working hard on that. Our schedule is now that the Chamber will receive a letter about this for the summer. Then the Chamber will have a complete insight into the impact of the responsibility we have with regard to local employees and clients. So that's a product of the three rulers here behind the table. Mr. Chairman. Then there was a question from Mrs Van der Plas. She talked about veterans' buddy projects. Yes, there are. That's very nice. There are just many veterans who have voluntarily taken the initiative to maintain contact with Afghan interpreters with whom they have worked or with other employees who have come to the Netherlands. I am very positive about such initiatives. I really applaud it. This is the project that Mrs van der Plas has presented to us from the Defence Department to ensure that they can be brought into contact with the various veterans' organisations that are there, which have added value in this type of private initiative. I have a few points to make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u157	Before you go any further, Mrs Van der Plas has another interruption on the last point. Mrs. Van der Plas? I thought you might want to ask me about the buddy subject, and you may.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u158	I got it wrong for a second. I thought I had to wait, but luckily I didn't have to. I'm actually curious about the following. Those people do that voluntarily. They also make a great deal of effort in this regard. Actually, my question was: is that supported by the Ministry in some way, for example by means or with compensation? I'm just curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u159	No, I don't think so. I can double-check it. But I'm also not aware that such support has been requested. I don't think there's been a request for financial support, but I'll double-check it. I think it is particularly important for them to be able to get guidance and support from the veterans' organizations, which of course are more equipped to do so. These are often genuinely individual initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u160	Mrs. Van der Plas, is this enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u161	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u162	Some spokesmen I thought Mrs Piri and Mr Valstar asked if we could do more to show our gratitude to the Afghans. I believe that the interpreters were appointed in particular. I think we all think that a lot of Afghans, who have supported us in all those years that Defence has been active in Afghanistan, indeed deserve to be appreciated for almost twenty years. That is, of course, a broader group than just the interpreters. That's the group that's related to the work that Defense has done and that's really built up there with Defense personnel. There has been an interpreter's badge for some years. That badge looks at the military interpreters. So these are Afghans who have entered the service of the Defense Department. That is a smaller group, I think, than the group Mr Valstar was talking about. I think it is very important to see how we use that badge and whether people like it. If the Chamber so wishes, I would very much like to examine whether we could provide a broader group of defence staff, so the broader group which is also covered by the interpretation arrangements.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u163	Glad to hear from the Minister. I am also pleased with what you said earlier, that you want to look at each individual case of the Afghan-Dutch people working in the Defense Department. I am also very pleased with that commitment. That also raises a question about interpretation, as we discussed it for a moment. In the overall overview of the cabinet, we do not see how many interpreters are actually still in Afghanistan, and whether or not there are people among them, you know that in the previous debate six months ago, a crucial point was already on our radar, which had already signed up for that well-known motion from this Chamber. I apologize for this spontaneous question. If you want to get back to that in the second term, of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u164	I think it would be wise for me to return to that in the second term. Then I'm a little more precise than if I were to give an answer right now. That's what I'm happy to say. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question from Mr Ceder. Are there any people on the evacuation list that we know have been captured or died in any way? Unfortunately, in one case, it is known that an employee who has worked for an international military police mission has indeed died. In general, we know that it is. We no longer have contact with a number of applicants. It's tried with some regularity, but it doesn't work. Since, as the Chamber knows, we no longer have people in Afghanistan to actually conduct research and make physical contact there, it will stop there, although we cannot, of course, draw any conclusions. They're people who are registered, and we can't determine what's going on with them. That is the information I can give to the Chamber on that point. Finally. A few comments were made on the security situation in Afghanistan. Mr Hoekstra has already said something about it. Of course, there is no major conflict in Afghanistan anymore, but there are violent incidents, there is small-scale resistance. The Taliban are, of course, trying to crush that. We know the ISKP, the Islamic State Khorasan Province, who commit weekly attacks in Afghanistan. The Taliban are carrying out operations against that again. So it is far from quiet and safe, quite the contrary. Then there is the National Resistance Front, which is being repressively addressed by the Taliban. Think also of activists and journalists; they are all people who are not safe in Afghanistan. Moreover, neither group currently appears to be a threat to the Taliban's dominant position. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered the questions that were put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u165	I would like to thank the Secretary of Defense for her answer. Then I ask the Secretary of State for Justice and Security to answer a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u166	Mr. Chairman. Mrs van der Plas started her speech by saying that Ukraine and everything that is going on there almost forgot what was going on in Afghanistan six months ago and forgetting the consequences that we are still dealing with. I liked that opening. As you know, in addition to this debate I am having with you today and in addition to the debates I am having with you on the reception of people from Ukraine, I am also trying to ensure that people from the rest of the world are provided with shelter. Think of people from Afghanistan or people reporting as asylum seekers by a different route from what we are talking about today. It is therefore nice that Mrs Van der Plas also drew attention to this. Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I will begin with what was said by the Foreign Minister in the debate with Mrs Piri. He indicated that the Ruys Committee would return to that. Then Mrs Piri said very emphatically: "I do not want to wait until the end of next year. I want to make it clear that a number of things do not play any role." Let it be clear that reception capacity in the Netherlands should not play any role in the question of whether people can come to the Netherlands. That is a problem for me and for my colleagues, and for no one else. In particular, Mrs Piri spoke about the sixteen families in Enschede who have already moved four times. Yesterday's state of affairs is that there are 122 evacuations, including 68 minors, in Enschede. Mrs Piri and I agree that it should not have been. Mrs Piri knows the situation. That's what I've been talking to her about lately. We have too little reception capacity for non-Ukrainians, if I may summarize it so disrespectfully. They're working hard to create those places. For example, we have asked the security regions to create places now, not only to relieve Ter Apel, but also, in general, to ensure that COA can continue to receive non-Ukrainian asylum seekers. We have also said that we are going to move status holders who are already linked to municipalities to hotels in those municipalities in order to literally create air for the COA to catch people. We try to let them move as little as possible, especially where families are concerned; I told you that of those 122 there are 68 minors. They've moved too many times. Mrs Piri knows that I will do everything I can to create a situation as soon as possible where they are no longer dependent on where they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u167	Mrs Piri and then Mr Ceder, I think. Mrs. Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u168	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am pleased that the Secretary of State says he wants to make an effort in this respect. That's what he said three weeks ago, when we had a debate earlier. As the Secretary of State himself describes, these are families with children who were evacuated in August. It concerns former employees of the Dutch State, of the Dutch mission, who have been staying in a horrible place for seven months now. That emergency shelter is a place where we wouldn't want to receive people. So apart from that commitment: what about in time? Can you at least say that it is really not going to last longer than one month at most? These people are watching today. They really hope for the answer that they can get out of there and get to a regular azc.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u169	I understand very well, and then I forget for a moment, Mrs Piri, that these families want a place to stay quickly. This is not only true for these families, because it is not true that only these sixteen families are in Enschede. That goes for a lot more people. It applies in general to a lot of people who, as status holders in regular azc's or in another shelter, are waiting far too long for a place, on a home like where you and I live. That is why we really put maximum pressure on municipalities to ensure that status holders are placed to the municipalities where they belong. You know that more than a third of the places currently occupied in azc's, in asylum seekers' centres, are occupied by people who do not belong in an azc, but belong somewhere in the Netherlands. That's why we're making the most of it. That's one. Two. That is an even harrowing problem, I say right away. Over the past few weeks, we have been talking about sufficient reception places for people seeking asylum in the Netherlands. I am not talking very specifically about the Ukrainians. We have a huge shortage of them. It's Thursday. Tomorrow, a number of cases will have to be resolved, otherwise the problems in Ter Apel will be even greater than they already are. I'll keep talking to the local authorities about that as soon as I'm not talking to you. At the moment, it can only be done on a voluntary basis. Every debate we have on this subject, I welcome it for the reason that I hope that municipal authorities will realise that it is important to create places for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u170	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u171	I understand very well that the problems of receiving care in the Netherlands are very serious. These are people we actively picked up from Afghanistan by plane, because we had a duty of honour towards these people. They've been going from emergency care to emergency care for seven months. They're not in an asylum centre. They're in an emergency shelter, without the facilities of an azc. They already have a status, so they're not asylum seekers. All they ask is to put them in a regular azc. Everyone knows the apartments aren't available. Please tell me that is really going to happen in the very short term for these specific 16 families.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u172	Let me say to Mrs Piri that I am going to discuss this with the COA in the very short term. That's not gonna be tomorrow, it's gonna be next week. Then, of course, I will return to Mrs Piri, so to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u173	I'm glad the Secretary of State says that care shouldn't play a role. Measures have also been taken. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, because it is not easy what we have been dealing with over the past few weeks. My compliments to the Secretary of State for going through with it. The question that remains with me, and perhaps with other Members of Parliament, is the following. Reception now plays no role in evacuating, but today we have read a newspaper report in which those words are mentioned, so that reception capacity did play a role. We have just heard from Minister Hoekstra that it should be interpreted differently because of political sensitivity. Okay. But, of course, you're in charge of the shelter. I would also like to ask you the same question or not now, but in the past, after the fall of Kabul, I am talking about the last few months, after the fall of Kabul, I have played a role in the consideration of evacuating or not evacuating people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u174	Mr Ceder is right to ask for this. In the consultation on 30 September, the IND indicated that reception in general is a challenge for the COA. That's the literal text. It was discussed at that time that if there were actually insufficient places, they would be asked if they could provide a reception location. That's what was said at the time. I think that is also a fair point, because the COA is under pressure. The moment you get an extra group, you're going to ask the DOD: could you make a contribution? We have done so very recently in the case of Ukraine. That's where the DOD played a generous role, for example with Harkamp. No more than that. As far as I am concerned, there should not be more to it than that. Once again, when such a situation is being discussed, I must be burdened with the problem of finding shelter, and that is all. Now we are talking specifically about Afghanistan, but it can also play at other times.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u175	We are indeed talking about the reception of Afghans, but news came out of the week that the Secretary of State is considering setting up an appointment authority for Ukrainians. That's what I heard from the news. I am very curious whether this so-called emergency legislation will apply to other asylum seekers, and hence Afghans, as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u176	As of tomorrow, it will be the task of mayors in the Netherlands to arrange for the reception of Ukrainians. That is because of the special situation and the special circumstances we are now in. Not only do we have a war on European territory, but 4 million people have fled outside Ukraine. And there are even more within Ukraine. That's where it's approaching the 8 to 9 million. So that's the particular circumstance that makes mayors competent and gets that job when it comes to Ukrainians. When it comes to non-Ukrainians, i.e. regular asylum seekers, it remains a task of the COA. Formally, I must say to you that there is a ministerial arrangement, which does not come under me but under the Minister of Justice. For the people outside this room, it doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u177	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u178	But how is the Secretary of State going to put an end to the problems in Ter Apel? That's where people sleep on chairs and on the floor. Is he working on that, too? Are we going to have measures for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u179	As you know, last Monday, the Presidents of the security regions and the Commissioners of the King, who have been called "folklores' in this Chamber, asked me to include in the law the possibility of coercion. I have indicated that I will take that back to the cabinet. I received the letter today during this debate, so I have not read it yet. I want to make no mistake about that. I'm going to discuss it with the Cabinet. I have also promised this week to the committees of the Second and First Chambers that we will inform both Chambers as soon as we have taken a position on this as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u180	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u181	Mr. Chairman. Mr Stoffer of the SGP asked whether we would continue to keep an eye on the proper reception of evacuations. I think I have just said in my speech that the answer to this question is clearly 'yes'. Mrs Piri and I agree that sound care should not be emergency care. We should have regular shelter for that. It is also something for the longer term to ensure that we no longer end up in these situations with tents, sports halls and other things that are not intended for that purpose. There is no difference of opinion. Mrs Belhaj asked a very specific question about the 25 fixers. I'm using a term that doesn't know everyone, but Mrs Belhaj asked a specific question about those fixers. How did we get to that number of 25? The Commission has asked the European countries to take 650 of these people. We're 27 countries and 650 divided by 27 is 24 and something else, so 25. So that's why it turned 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u182	Before you continue, there is another question from Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u183	There must also be room for a compliment. Because that is what you would really like to have: that it sounds like a collective European issue 'problem' in this context, that one wants to solve a somewhat unkind problem, that one makes a common division and that each country accepts its responsibility. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u184	I do not want this to be unclear. "We" did not say in Europe: 650 divided by 27 is 25. We in the cabinet have said that 650 divided by 27 is 25. So that's a little more nuanced than what Mrs Belhaj just said. Mrs Van der Plas asked a specific question about psychosocial aid for Afghans. Afghan evacuations, as well as other Afghans who end up in asylum centres through the regular asylum procedure, have access to accessible medical care anyway. This includes the ggz practice supporter. If you need specialist care, you can do it through the GP. General practitioner care is an insured care for asylum seekers and can therefore also be arranged for these evacuations. In addition, there is also the preventive programme BAMBOO, which is specific. You don't have to ask me where that name came from, but that program is about learning how to deal with psychosocial problems. Mrs van der Plas also spoke about the care and the nuisance. This is not about Afghans and not about evacuations, but simply about troublesome asylum seekers in general. For that we have, what is called in professional terms, track 2. This track ensures that their asylum procedure is handled as quickly as possible, because it is often a matter of safe people who can be found at the end of the procedure that they are not entitled to asylum. This will also enable the expulsion procedure to be started as soon as possible. That's it, Madam President. But I see Mrs. Van der Plas is at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u185	There's one more question about BAMBOO, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u186	I asked you not to ask. So I hope Mrs. Van der Plas isn't going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u187	We always have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u188	I may have a weird question, but if you hear that people have to sleep on chairs and on the floor... I went to Ter Apel myself a few months ago. I know that there is also a section there where there are no chances of asylum seekers, let me put it this way. They'll probably be deported. Is it true that those safe-lords have shelter, however basic that is, and people who are really on the run from war, are sleeping on those chairs? 'Cause I'd say turn that around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u189	The complicated thing is that you can apply for asylum in the Netherlands, even if you come from a safe country; from any country in the world. We can't say that safe-loving people can't apply for asylum. Even if 95% of the safe-landers do not receive asylum because it is safe for them, it can be unsafe for a safe-lander in an individual situation. This gives people the right to asylum. That is because, for example, one has political views or a religion that does not quite fit in with the country of origin. Nor is it the case that all the safe people cause nuisance. So only in that group do we see a greater representation of people who cause nuisance. So that's a group other than safelanders. So we're also speeding up track 2. In a number of locations we also had sober shelter for that. It would be good if we had more of those sober locations in the Netherlands. That's quite simply because you saw a number of troublemakers say: if this is the facility I'm supposed to be in, then I'll leave. I'd like to encourage that. Only at this point in time do we not have enough of these places, because that also goes on a voluntary basis from municipalities that have to say that they would like to have such a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u190	I would like to ask the Secretary of State, as well as my fellow Members, to focus on the subject, because it is very broad about reception. I understand the questions, but there is also a second deadline and we have another debate. So please focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u191	This was also in the letter of the Chamber, so as far as I am concerned I am focusing on the subject. Of course, it is also very broad, but I find it indigestible if it is. Let us, indeed, make a distinction between those who are safe and those who cause nuisances. I find it indigestible that troublemakers lie in a bed, no matter how basic that bed is, and have a microwave and shower at their disposal, while people who are really on the run from war or other things that threaten them in existence, sleep on a chair or on the ground. If that is the case, I would like to call on the Secretary of State to reverse that situation at least pending their procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u192	The Secretary of State is replying very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u193	Mr President, I do nothing but answer questions from Members of Parliament. That's what I'm supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u194	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u195	I also find it indigestible that people who come to the Netherlands to apply for asylum should behave badly. If you do that, you should get a kick in the ass and leave as soon as possible. But we are simply dealing with legislation and regulation, which means that we have to go through these processes. So I understand that it's indigestible, and I also really hope that we can manage to get off the country as soon as possible. 'Cause if you're causing trouble, you don't belong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u196	Fine. I'm usually a very nice person, but it really was a little too much about asylum policy. That is not what the debate is about. So I am confident that the Secretary of State will ensure that everyone is treated fairly, properly and humanely, regardless of whether or not someone has a formal right to asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u197	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u198	Mr Hoekstra may have forgotten a question. He's looking at me right now and he's probably thinking, "Oh, no?"
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u199	If so, can you ask in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u200	Well, no, it can't be, because there can be motions in the second term. It's specifically about those guards. Where did that story even start? Those guards were included in that motion. It was assumed that these people were on the evacuation list. Later that motion was completed. That's where the specs came from. And those guards are still waiting. And no one can explain to us why these guards are not simply subject to the motion, and are still being evacuated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u201	I believe that it is as follows, and I believe that it has been discussed with the Chamber before. I believe that a distinction has been made by the cabinet between those employed on the one hand and those employed by private parties on the other. I believe that a distinction has also been made between those who, for example, really guarded military facilities, and could thus be seen in the eyes of the Taliban regime as being responsible for the regime that the Taliban wanted to say goodbye to, and on the other hand, the guards who secured things such as embassies. I believe that it has been discussed with the Chamber earlier that that first group, with people who were directly under contract with the Netherlands or military affairs, is subject to this arrangement. About the people employed by private companies, it was previously said to the Chamber that that in itself is not a title to bring them to the Netherlands. That is what I understand about history and the debates that have taken place with the Chamber before. I would also like to do what I have argued earlier in this 'half' period. If this is true, we shouldn't be tinkering with this structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u202	We can't blame the Minister, because it's a long history. I think it is clear that before the fall of Kabul there was a request from the cabinet and from the MPs of our embassy in Afghanistan for evacuation. Those people weren't called in, and we were under the assumption that they were at that hot evacuation phase. A letter containing the new rules, the new interpretation of the Belhaj motion, was then sent on 11 October. There is not a word written there that a difference is made between people with different contracts. In fact, the security guards of Defense were very often not directly employed either, but through an intermediate company. Suddenly, mysteriously, on the basis of written questions, the answer has come: oh yes, with this group we do make an exception to employment. That's about the group we thought he was in the Netherlands a long time ago. I have one last sentence. So I think that's very good; let there be no misunderstanding about that; let there be no misunderstanding about evacuating people who may have worked as a gardener or cook at the embassy for a few months, but who did have a direct employment. Security guards who protected our diplomats with a Dutch badge for 18 years have been choked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u203	With all the intricacies and all the emotions involved, my understanding is that at earlier times it was shared with the Chamber that this distinction was made and that it was also communicated with this company how the arrangement would work. I would really like to stick to the previous agreements, with all the pluses and minuses that go with them. Of course, I appreciate that Mrs Piri is looking from her political point of view to see if she can add a little more to it. I realise that the agreements made would be very workable in my view, but that Mrs Piri has always insisted that she actually wants more. I also understand that she is asking if we can't do that after all. But I really want to stick to the previous agreements. My understanding is that it was previously agreed in this way. I don't want to take anything off. I don't want to add anything. I want to keep it the way it is. I would at most like to confirm once more that I too will look, that the Ministry will still look, at poignant cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u204	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u205	It is good to specify that the agreements may have been the agreements between ministers, but they were not agreements with the Chamber. In fact, as I have just argued, the Chamber has been in a different assumption for a very long time. That is why I shall table a motion and then we shall see where the majority of the Chamber stands in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u206	It's always the way things are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u207	Then I would like to thank the Minister once again for his one and a half term. Then we start immediately with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I would like to ask Members, also in view of the time, not to ask any more questions and to confine themselves to a final conclusion or possible motions. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Piri of the PvdA. We have had a lot of time for a lot of questions and a lot of interruptions. I'm afraid we're gonna have to limit ourselves a little now. Mrs. Piri, PvdA, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the debate. A lot has been done in the last few months, I think. I think it is also clear that much remains to be done, because there are still more than 1,000 of our former colleagues stuck and waiting for evacuation. I am pleased that it has been clarified that today, today, reception capacity and money do not play a role in the pace of evacuation. It remains to be seen whether this was not the case at the end of September. It has been promised that the Committee of Inquiry will look into this. It would be a pleasure for the Cabinet to clarify this more quickly, for example by sharing with the Chamber the decision list of 1 October 2021. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Afghans working for the Dutch military have played an essential role in carrying out the Dutch mission in Afghanistan and ensuring the security of our military;]] [[calls on the Government, out of gratitude for its service, to honour these Afghan former staff, in particular the interpreters, in an appropriate manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Piri and Mr Valstar.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-893]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u209	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas guards from the Dutch embassy in Afghanistan have already made a request for evacuation prior to the fall of Kabul on 15 August;]] [[Whereas their request was one of the reasons for the Belhaj motion (27925, no. 788) specifically calling on the government to evacuate these guards without distinguishing between permanent or other employment;]] [[noting that the Cabinet never called this group of guards for evacuation;]] [[calls on the government, at least, to put on the evacuation list the security guards who have guarded the Dutch diplomats for more than ten years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Piri.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-894]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u210	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Boswijk, CDA. No? You will waive your term. Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u211	Mr. Chairman. More than 1,000 people are still counting on evacuation. I assume the government will do everything in its power to help these people. I very much appreciate the fact that the Foreign Minister is going to take a serious look at the harrowing cases. I'd like to come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the risk of harm, that was a painful message this morning. The minister says it didn't matter. According to the Wob pieces, it did play a role. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more than 1,000 people are still eligible for evacuation to the Netherlands;]] [[noting that a Wob request shows that the possibility of evacuation of hundreds of people through charter flights has been left unused due to "political risks of impairment";]] [[declares that this is unacceptable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-895]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u212	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Let me take a look at Mr Kuzu van DENK. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u213	Mr. Chairman. The Committee of Inquiry is moving fast. The last word has not yet been said about this. I am pleased that the rulers have indicated that they will do everything they can to speed up the evacuations. I wholeheartedly support that. We would also like to see results. I'm more concerned about one group. These are members of the nuclear family. In the Dutch context, we have defined this to the partner and children under 25. In that context, that is really different. It's being considered wider. There are people who are in danger of life because they are not covered by the Dutch concept of "core family." That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas family members who do not belong to the "nuclear family" of the group which the cabinet intends to evacuate are seriously threatened by the work they have carried out for the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Taliban threaten these people with torture, corporal punishment and death;]] [[Whereas the definition of "nuclear family" in the Afghan context differs significantly from the strict definition used by the government;]] [[calls on the Government to provide guidance in the application of the definition of "nuclear family" when family members prove to be at risk of life risk;]] [[calls on the Government to act swiftly to evacuate those who are included in the definition of "nuclear family,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-896]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u214	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u215	Mr. Chairman. The beauty of being a member of this House of Representatives is that you have this beautiful cathedral where you can find things, say things, think and also speak to a cabinet strictly and sometimes ask for something in the hope that you come together. So basically all the things we do here on Thursday night are things that can't be done in Afghanistan. In many other countries, democracy is under pressure. I think that democracy is not only fantastic because I can fulfil my role as a Member of Parliament, but I also think it is fantastic, because from this position you have power to do something for someone else. Every day. When it comes to saving people's lives, it is of course best to use your power to do so. That's how I see it. I have heard some good things today and I have heard a number of things that I think can be better. The first. With regard to the poignant cases, I have tried to seduce the Minister and to convince him of why poignant cases can also apply when it comes to the complicated evacuation. So I would once again ask the Minister to take a good look at that and not just say: I want to keep it that way. Finally, Mr President. There are some misunderstandings about the guards. Every time the minister says, "I want to keep it the way it is." But it's probably a real misunderstanding. The completion of that motion has come at a later stage. I'm not here to stretch out new things. I'm far too transparent for that. I ask the Minister if he would like to see again if what we have done is true. I don't care where it went wrong, but do it. After all, these are the people where it started. The VVD, the CDA and all the other groups said that it wouldn't be true that the guards who protected our people are now the ones in danger? I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u216	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Ceder, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for their reply. A lot has been said. We are also waiting for the Ruys Committee's report. With regard to the poignant cases, I understand that this is an agreement that you should be careful about. I really hope that we can be merciful in distressing cases. From this point of view, I would like to say the following. If there are cases, people, where you run into a wall and don't give the ministries home, let the Chamber know, just in case of poignant cases. We can then take a good look at it, because it is in the spirit of the agreements we have made. Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I do have one more question that I think was unanswered. That question was about the ruling in a short-term case about the Afghan fixers. The court ruled that the State had no obligation to bring them to the Netherlands, but considered that the State had indicated that it still had an international commitment to do something for fixers, among others. I wonder if these fixers are now joining the 25 Afghans group that the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, via the European Foreign Service, EEAS, wants to include. So that's just a specific question from me. How does the Minister see the interpretation of the ruling and how does he intend to implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u218	Thank you, Mr. Ceder. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB. No? She's giving up her term. The directors have indicated that they need five minutes to prepare themselves. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u219	The next item is the debate on the situation regarding the evacuation in Afghanistan, the second term of office. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u220	Mr. Chairman. I will give a ruling on the second motion. It's the motion in part No. 894 by Mrs Piri. I really believe that this issue has been discussed with Mr Knapen before during the budget debate. I understand that's how it was agreed at the time. I'm gonna go over what was discussed when in a very secure manner. I shall return to the Chamber in writing. If Mrs. Piri doesn't want to hold the motion, I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u221	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Two more points I had to come back to in the second term. Mrs Piri asked how many interpreters, already known for the fall of Kabul, have not been evacuated. As far as we can see, this concerns four interpreters. I would also like to come back to a question from Mrs Van der Plas. I answered it, but I have one more supplement. I hope that somehow comes to her. It was indeed a private initiative for a buddy system. That private initiative knocked on the door to the Defense Department. Defence has not provided financial support for the initiative, so except that they are referred to and linked to veteran organisations, they are not financially supported. It has been offered to support them in other ways, for example by making spaces available and so on. Then there's one more motion I'd like to make. That's the motion in part No. 893 by Mrs Piri and Mr Valstar. It invites, out of gratitude for services rendered, to honour Afghan former staff, in particular interpreters, in an appropriate manner. As I said in my first term, I want to find a way to express that, so I will. I'd like to give the motion judgment room. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u223	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u224	Mr. Chairman. I'm responding to one motion, the motion in part no. Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr Kuzu, Mr The operative part of this motion asks, inter alia, whether family members who are still in Afghanistan are demonstrably in danger of life. In fact, the motion calls for an asylum test to be carried out on persons who are not in the Netherlands, but in Afghanistan. The IND does not have access to or access to the persons concerned. It also does not fit within the system that we know in the Netherlands to do an asylum test with people abroad. That's why I'm deposing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u225	Thank you. I think there was another question from Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u226	Yeah, that's right. I think Minister Hoekstra should answer that. It may also be written, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u227	I think it's being listened to. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you for your flexibility in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-31-tweedekamer-13.u228	I would like to thank the directors, the spokesmen and the people who have followed the debate in the public gallery or in any other way. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m. That includes dinner break. Then we will start with the follow-up to the debate on the speech by Ukrainian President Zelensky.
