ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u1	Then we immediately proceed to the debate on the EU Implementation Act Directive transparent and predictable working conditions, Parliamentary Document 35962. We have five speakers from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u2	The first speaker is Mr Smals of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u3	Mr. Chairman. The VVD welcomes the cabinet's intention to implement this directive purely. It is good, especially when we are so busy with labour market reforms, not putting unnecessary legislation at the top of the directive. However, I do have some clarifying questions for the Minister. First of all... What is the difference between a call contract and an employment contract with totally unpredictable or largely unpredictable times? Is it one thing by definition the other and does it work both ways? What is "largely" in that context? Is that a percentage of the contract of employment or an absolute number of hours, etc. etc.? Nor is it clear to me what is meant, for example, by an employment contract where there is an agreement with fixed hours, but not a fixed schedule. How long should schedules be set in advance? Is there a directive for that? I can imagine that there are sectors where it is difficult, if not impossible, to set the timetables in advance. Mr. Chairman. I have also read the amendments with interest and made an important observation. Both amendments were written from the employee's perspective. That is good, and that is good, because workers must of course be protected from malicious employers. But most SMEs and entrepreneurs see their people as the largest, most valuable part of their business. If you had asked me five years ago, when I was an entrepreneur, what I was most proud of, those were, of course, next to my family, the people I worked with. In short, it seems that the amendments are based on mistrust. In doing so, we are failing a very large proportion of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u4	That was your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u6	Fine. One more question from Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u7	What struck me from the questions the VVD asked the Minister is that they were based on the business model as it is today. That's possible; that's very different. My question to my colleague from the VVD is what he thinks about the right to his own time and that this is better secured. So do you always have to be available? Does the VVD consider that this is now adequately secured in the current legislation and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u8	The VVD considers that an employment relationship is a result of a conversation between employer and employee. The VVD also believes that you cannot form everything in rules and that trust between both parties and good consultation should be the basis. I totally agree with you that, depending on the employment relationship you have... I imagine there are situations where an employee has the right not to work. Of course, that makes sense. But I can also imagine that there are employment relationships in which employer and employee make agreements with each other about when you are available and when you are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u9	Yes. Finalizing, Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u10	Does the VVD therefore consider that an employer should be allowed to demand what someone does in the rest of their time? If the VVD finds that legitimate, my final question would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u11	That depends entirely on the situation in which it occurs. In a situation where the employee is abused by the employer and forced into a situation where he is not happy, we must of course have legislation to protect the employee. But I can also very well imagine that this is very rare and that we rely on the confidence between employer and employee and the confidence in employers that they have the best interests with their staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u12	Fine. Thank you. One more question from Mrs Kathmann.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u13	If you asked me when I was an entrepreneur what I was most proud of, I always said "to our employees" and in my case, as a social entrepreneur, especially "to our volunteers." So I would very much like to ask about the amendment by the Labour Party and GroenLinks, on which the VVD bases it that this is written from the point of view of distrust towards employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u14	Let me put it the other way around. If I have understood Mrs Kathmann's and Mrs Maatoug's amendments correctly, they want to replace the concept of "objective reasons" with the concept of "heavy business and/or service interests." Isn't that right? I don't see no nod, but I assume that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u15	I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u16	In my view, this is an important aspect of your amendment. In my opinion, the concept of "heavy business and/or service interests" is stricter and more compelling than "objective reasons." Objective reasons, as far as I'm concerned, are enough to say, but that relationship, that employment relationship, that there is in the right direction and to start a conversation between employer and employee about where you want to come out together. On the point that you want to make it stricter or that it is stricter in the amendment, I base your lack of confidence in the fact that the employer can also be in good faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u17	I do not think the VVD has read our amendment properly. It is about what the directive is intended for, and that is precisely for these objective reasons to frame more than is currently the case. As an entrepreneur I always found: if I am proud of those employees of mine, I must also ask them what nice conditions are under which they can work. Then I may have to turn it around so that the pride of the VVD translates into distrust of the employee, who himself likes to see more restriction in those provisions. Again, my question: does the VVD have any suspicion of employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u18	No, not at all. I think that was exactly my point when I say that if you had asked me five years ago, except for my family, you will forgive me most proud of the workers. I also believe in 99% of the employers in the Netherlands, of the SMEs, especially the SMEs in the Netherlands, is very proud of their employees. However, I believe that the concept of 'objective reasons', which you wish to replace in your amendment, is sufficient to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u19	Fine. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts. Oh, you still want to... if you want to interrupt, you really need to stand by the interrupting microphone, otherwise I don't know that you want to interrupt. An interruption by Mrs Van Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u20	Sorry, Chairman. I'll keep that in mind. I heard my colleague from the VVD put a clarifying question. I also kind of assume that that is the direction of the amendment that we have tabled. I'm sure I'd like to give something to the VVD's colleague. The amendment that D66 has tabled also refers to flexible contracts. I would like to mention, for example, someone who has a 16-hour contract in child care and eight hours in which she works, for example, once two hours and once two hours and once two hours. Do you agree with me that we should help the employer and the employee to clarify matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u21	I fully agree with you that it is wise to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u22	I fully agree with Mrs Van Beuker...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u23	Excuse me. Mr President, I fully agree with Mrs Van Beucker that more clarity between employer and employee is always good, always better. I also believe that the entamizing of a conversation is an extremely important factor, by far the most important. However, I have doubts as to whether Mrs Van Beuker's amendment makes it clearer. The proposed proposal contains the term "largely." Mrs van Beukering, if I am right, wants to remove her amendment. I believe that this will create a great deal more uncertainty, because there are many situations that cannot necessarily be predicted at the time when an employment relationship is entered into. I think that if you want to click on that now, you might create more conflict situations than if you stick to the current text.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u24	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u26	The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts, from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u27	Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing we're dealing with this law today. It's not a very far-reaching law, but there are some beautiful things in it. I still have a question about a few elements. The first concerns the cost of compulsory training for employers. As far as I'm concerned, that's excellent. This way, everyone is really able to follow that education. Several questions have already been asked about the distinction between compulsory training and professional qualifications. My specific question is as follows. If an employer invests a lot of money and time in training to train an employee, so that more work can be done, for example on the construction site, does this include? Because I see more and more employers who are investing in their people because of the tight labour market, but who may be reluctant to do so if they are unable to recover their investment at the time the employee leaves for the competitor a week later. My second question concerns the clarification of 'no obligation to work with a whole or largely unpredictable pattern of work'. Does the Minister agree with me, in line with the Council for Justice, that we should also want this for people whose hours are unpredictable, but who may nevertheless suffer from it? I am thinking, for example, of someone in childcare who only gets two fixed days, and is then called in too late to be able to work the last day as well. And of course it's useful to be able to catch "sick and peak." But I would like workers to be able to oppose it, especially if it is actually abused. The third question concerns the obligations of the employer with regard to information on the elements of the salary, the method of payment, the procedure for terminating the contract, the obligation to further transparent working conditions. The very specific question is: should this be included in a contract of employment, or is a reference to a collective agreement sufficient? I believe I am in favour of including it in the employment contract, because I think it might reach more people. And is it retroactive? I like to hear it. Finally. I welcome the fact that this directive restricts the possibilities for employers to limit their staff in having multiple jobs, although I have also spoken to several employers who suffer from this because they are at risk. I understand that. Nevertheless, I think it is important to leave the freedom of workers. They must be able to decide what to do with their own time. And I also agree with the amendment tabled by the Labour Party and the Green Left in order to strengthen this further to leave the possibility of banning a side job in the event of a serious business or service interest. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u28	Thank you. I call Mr Léon de Jong of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u29	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union. That all sounds good, but it's not. We are therefore opposed to the implementation of this directive. The reason is that the European Commission should not interfere with our laws and regulations. The European Commission should not decide what we should and should not do anymore in the area of social security and our labour market. There is nothing in this directive that we cannot regulate at national level. This applies to compensation for compulsory training for employees. This applies to greater understanding of the rights and obligations of employees and employers when it comes to the pattern of work. This applies to allowing or not allowing multiple jobs, and the rights and obligations associated with them. This also applies to regulations on flexible work. We can do it all ourselves, but still let us teach the lesson again here. Of course, there will be politicians who are going to tell us again today what the Netherlands is allowed to do with this directive by the European Commission, and how much space we still have as a country. That is what we see in every EU debate. We should not take into account at all what we should and should not do from the European Commission, what we should and should not do from the EU. That's up to us. We should not allow our policy space to be determined by the European Commission. But that is exactly what we do when we introduce this directive. Because we need to adapt our laws and regulations. That's not noncommittal. That is what some of the quotes from the directive show in detail. I quote. "This Directive lays down minimum requirements." "Member States should lay down effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for infringements of the obligations under this Directive." "Member States may entrust management and labour with the implementation of this Directive if they so request jointly, provided that Member States take all necessary measures to ensure the results of this Directive at any time." "Member States should take any appropriate measure to ensure compliance with the obligations under this Directive, for example by introducing inspections." "Member States shall ensure that..." "Member States shall take the necessary measures to..." "Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main measures of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive." "Member States shall take the necessary measures to comply with this Directive by 1 August 2022 at the latest. They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof." We have to do this and we have to. Just the tone. It's like we're a bunch of toddlers who have to answer to the European Commission. The PVV doesn't go along with that. My question is why the Minister himself does not come up with a vision of the points made in the directive. Furthermore, I am asking you to do so, but of course it is against doing so with all these urophils here in order not to implement this directive. Let national law be guiding. We are here in the national parliament, where we must protect our national laws and regulations. We must not therefore become the hallmark of binding European laws and regulations. So once again, take this directive off the table today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u30	Thank you. Then Mrs Kathmann from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the morning delivering newspapers, during the day and in the evening cleaning. Two or three jobs to pay for groceries, rent and gas bills. Almost 200,000 people who combine jobs do this for one reason, and that's just to get by. Often they are simply given too few hours to work more. In addition to barely making ends meet, these workers also experience different employers who all call for their attention at the same time. Employees with zero-hour contracts or min-max contracts are expected to always be available. That creates stress and a lot of uncertainty, but that's just one of the bottlenecks. Combining jobs also has an impact on travel costs and pensions. In order to ensure that workers can make a decent living, it is important that they receive normal contracts with sufficient hours. This can be done, looking at the current tight labour market. Employers in care and childcare all say that they are jumping at people, but still they are only small contracts given to employees. I am thinking of bso-workers who only work from 15.00 to 18.00 hours, caregivers who only work in the morning and at the end of the afternoon or cleaners who are only allowed to be in the office outside office hours. How does the Minister intend to ensure that employees can get decent contracts with enough hours, simply to pay for their lives? What is the status of the basic contract in the SER-MLT opinion? Is the Minister prepared to urge employers, such as post delivery, care and childcare, to offer more full-time contracts so that more workers can get a decent income with a normal number of working hours? Is the Minister also going to appeal to these employers to give employees working hours? Then we'll talk about the ancillary work. This European directive is a good step towards giving workers more certainty about their own working hours. For example, if workers wish to do so, they can work extra alongside their current job, in order to supplement their income, for example. However, the interpretation by the cabinet of this directive is contrary to the purpose of the directive. After all, the main objective of the directive is now to paraphrase that Member States should ensure that an employer cannot prohibit an employee from working for other employers and that the employer does not cause the worker to suffer any adverse treatment. The employer, for objective reasons, I was just talking to my colleague in the VVD about giving him the opportunity to ban workers from carrying out other activities, goes against the main objective of the directive. Does the Minister agree that "objective reasons" are far too global and too open? Can the Minister comment on the fact that these objective reasons ensure that workers can only know afterwards whether or not they could take up that side job? That's bad. Because right now, there are employees in court who are just fired because they didn't know how things were going with them in the case. So let's just record that, please. That is not out of mistrust, but to have it clearly arranged. Why does the Minister put aside the Council's opinion on the case law in order to inform employees in advance of when they can take up an additional job? Why has not the already existing definition of important business and service interests been chosen? This is also true in terms of the competitive clause and is therefore already known to many employers and employees. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party believes that workers should be given security on the front or that they can work extra or supplement their income. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mr Maatoug. However, this amendment is in line with the directive, provides clarity for both workers and employers, thus follows the Council's opinion on the case law and reduces post-work conflicts. The Labour Party simply considers it very important that all employees in the Netherlands are offered decent hours, so that they are simply able to pay for their lives. If that is not the case, it should not also be the case that the road to other jobs that they simply need to get around is very difficult in this way afterwards. I'd like some clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u32	Clear. Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Maatoug of the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We talk very often in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, but not often enough, about income security. We see that a very large group of people who work have no income security, especially people with flexible contracts and call contracts. This directive, and its implementation, is about certainty and predictability of time. That's as important as income security. Its importance has only increased. Because what do we see? We see, from SER report to SER report and from analysis to analysis, a greater increase of the following. This is largely the case at home and at home, without increasing the flexibility of the skin. We do this very differently from other countries around us. An increasingly large group of people must combine jobs; that was just what Mr Kathmann of the PvdA said. That group also has to do with enormous unpredictability as to how these jobs relate to each other. That's not just about what it means to your income. That is also about the following questions. Can I go to swim class, yes or no? Can I be there for my kids? Can I have family care? The directive clearly shows that the clarity of national legislation is limited here, while the need has increased enormously. An increasingly large group of people is combining that. We sat together as a committee at the briefing of the ESC. Then we talked about 220,000 working poor people in the Netherlands. What do these people have in common? It's a very diverse group. Zzp'ers and flexworkers combine jobs. 220,000 people: that's about the number of people living in Tilburg, if you're wondering. So you weren't wondering, Mr. President. Well, now you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u34	I've even been wondering all weekend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u35	This brings me to the first point, namely that predictability is so important. That's why we're happy with the law before us. But I have a question about that, too. We can see that, in the case of people who combine jobs, this leads to all kinds of bottlenecks, including how much tax you have to pay. There are a lot of people who don't know that they can only get a job discount or a tax discount once. This is indicated by both employers. The consequences are major post-taxes. I have the following questions for the Minister. Do we have a map of how many people this is about? Is this bottleneck known? Do we know the order size? What can we do to remove these kinds of bottlenecks? As GroenLinks, we want people to have good, decent work. We want if people want one job, they can get one job. Because it's really indecent that you just can't get it anymore, but that you have to combine it all, as the colleague of the PvdA also said. But in the meantime, let's make it as easy as possible for people. That is my first question to the Minister, Mr President. Then the second. I found it interesting what just happened in the debate, because 'the amendments were written out of mistrust'. That was a nice interrupt debate. I also have a question in line with Mr Kathmann on the clarification of the objective grounds. For what is the directive doing right and what is the law doing right? It is argued that employers should not prohibit workers from working with other employers. We think that's a good idea, because you're the boss of your own time. Paragraph 2 of the Act provides for derogations where conditions are laid down for the use of incompatibility restrictions by employers for objective reasons such as health, safety, the protection of the confidentiality of business information, the integrity of public services or the avoidance of conflicts of interest. The Minister chooses in the law to refer to objective reasons for employers to prohibit workers from working with another employer. But there is an enormous chance that it will lead to more conflicts in the workplace and possibly also to dismissal. At least it's a bit of a fuss. That is the signal that we are also getting from trade unions about how this is going in practice in the workplace. On top of that, the Council, in its case-law, states that this objective justification for justice must be known in advance. It should also be made public. The law doesn't do that now. There is no such clarification at the moment. The Court of Justice also shows the risk. This increases the risk, again, of court cases. Very good questions have already been asked by the colleague of the PvdA. My question to the Minister is: fix this. Make it clear in the law so that we do not have that ambiguity, because I think the purpose of the law is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u36	Mrs Maatoug explains where she thinks the problem is. I wonder if she can give a concrete, catchy example of what she means. Where is the problem solved by the amendment, by changing that concept?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u37	I think the argument is very clear. You now have the term "objective grounds." It's unclear what that means. If you clarify it and, for example, allow it to fit in with the definition as in the competitive clause, then you have a lot of clarity. That is a term that we know, which we use and which is based on case law. That is in line with the Council's argument for the case law, namely: make clear in advance what you mean by 'objective grounds'. That would be my question again: is it quite clear to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u38	No, we're not gonna ask questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u39	Oh, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u40	My question was: can you give a concrete example of an employment relationship where your amendment solves the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u41	What the amendment is doing... Mr Kathmann referred to court cases that are now under way; so it is now unclear. What is the purpose of this law? Clarify that. For example, I've got job one and I'm gonna do job two. The employer says you can't do that. At present it is unclear whether it is covered by that definition "objective grounds." So I can give you a lot of examples. I can give an example of a lawsuit and cases that are now taking place in the workplace. At the heart of the amendment is that this law is right to clarify it. As the Court of Justice says, we should not leave it unclear in advance, because then you will remain unclear in the workplace: what can the employer say and what is not, what is the right, how do you define that? If you clarify that and if you also agree with an existing definition, as in the competitive clause, that is clarity in advance. Then you secure it better, then it is clear to everyone where you can appeal and then prevent you from having a vague collective term, such as "objective grounds."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u42	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u43	I am simply asking for a concrete example of an employment relationship in which this amendment will solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u44	I think I've referred three times to a lawsuit that's going on. I can give you an explicit case. You're on the work floor, you're working in day care, and you want to work in home care, because you're taking a second job. The question is what the employer can say. There is no competition or health reasons. If you use the definition of "objective grounds," it is unclear and there is a risk. You don't have to take that from me, because the Council of Justice says: if you don't define it in advance, you'll get court cases and you'll keep getting your shit on the work floor; clearly define it, so you don't have this confusion. I don't think I can say it any more clearly. If the VVD needs me to mention, for example, 40 examples of cases that are now taking place on a workplace floor, I would love to do so. I can also refer to the lawsuits that are going on right now. I know I can't ask you again, but if clarification is the purpose of the law, you shouldn't keep an open collective term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u45	Fine. Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u46	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u47	Then go on joyfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u48	58 seconds on the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u49	One more question from Mrs Kathmann, perhaps on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u50	Yes, I have the following question for Mrs Maatoug. In the case of a machine factory, which is now before the court, someone was fired because he had not asked permission for a job and because in that machine factory it was actually very unknown when you could or could not have another job. The amendment will help to prevent such dismissals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u51	Was that an interruption? Oh, you two agree. Well, that's fascinating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u52	I welcome the example. Those were the lawsuit I was referring to. I thought: I don't have them here and I don't have the case numbers; I don't think that's very nice in the plenary. But we're going to lead it with love to the VVD group. Then we look at the new appreciation of the amendment. This brings me to my final point: education. This law provides that it is no longer permitted to recover the costs of statutory training from the employee. In addition, it is greatly encouraged and the worker should be given the opportunity to complete training under working time. I have two questions about this. The first is: can the Minister indicate whether we know how often employees are asked to carry out compulsory training in their own time? Do we know that? And if we don't know that, will the Minister have that checked out, including in the context of the evaluation of this law? My second question concerns the exception for domestic workers. One of the arguments for this exception is that there is now no compulsory training. My question would be: at the moment that it would be, because, for example, you have to do education because you are going to work with heavy chemicals, does the argument then lapse? And do we think that this directive also applies to these people? I'm curious to hear the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u53	So much for the Chamber's term. I'm gonna suspend until 5:45 and then we're gonna listen to the minister, but if she's finished sooner, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u54	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You asked me to do this in ten minutes. I'll do my best. First of all, thank you to the Members present for all your input. And thank you for allowing us to deal with this and give the substantive attention it deserves. Before I go into the directive, I would like to tell you what I am going to discuss. I will briefly discuss the background to the legislative proposal, then the legislative process and then your specific questions by subject. As many of you have pointed out, this directive aims to promote transparent and more predictable working conditions. You have always referred to that. It means more clarity for workers about their working conditions. In this respect, it is therefore a real improvement on the current situation. The information to be provided by the employer to the employee shall be extended. I mention the right to leave, the period of notice, the number of hours guaranteed. Cross-border posting is in there. I will address some of these subjects by subject. As Mr Smals pointed out, the directive is being implemented purely. So this is the second chapter of my answer. This means that we are only making those adjustments that are necessary under the directive. This is government policy, and we are happy to do so. This also means that we are in line with existing legislation on working conditions as far as possible in the implementation process. Of course, we have involved the social partners. A number of execution tests have also taken place. Then by subject. First of all, compulsory training. The legislative proposal is quite clear that the training required by law must be offered by the employer free of charge and if it is possible also during working hours. This applies to training which is compulsory under the collective agreement or the law or a European law. Therefore, no repayment clause should be included. These are compulsory training which is necessary for the performance of the job, but also for the continuation of the contract of employment in the event that that job would expire. They must also be free of charge and, if possible, during working hours. Mrs Van Beuker then asked whether this training also looked at the worker's further training in order to be able to carry out more work. It is compulsory under the law or collective agreement. This could be training that looks at safety and the maintenance of skills. Even now, the employer is obliged to enable workers to undergo training necessary for the performance of the job and the continuation of the contract of employment, as I said. Your specific question therefore depends on what kind of training is being offered. If it is really one to continue to perform the function or regulated by law, such as security, or so on. If it's more nice to have, it's not. So it really does vary from one situation to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u56	I recognize that, too, what the Minister says. I am referring, for example, to an installation company that trains people to put down solar panels. They clear up space to train people to do so, so that they also remain employable. I do not think this is a safety training programme, but rather a training programme aimed at increasing the skills of the employee. I'm looking for whether that's going to fall or not, so that's what my question to the Minister was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u57	I find that a difficult assessment, if I do not know the case exactly and do not know what the collective agreement of the installation companies is. When it comes to compulsory training that has something to do with the training that is being followed about the installation, it is. If it is something that makes you more skilled without an obligation, then it is not covered by compulsory education. It really depends on what is in the collective agreement and in the law on installing solar panels, so that will vary from situation to situation. Mrs Maatoug asked about domestic workers, who are now excluded from compulsory training. We have thought that we can make use of the exception provided for in this directive. As you said, we do not currently have compulsory training that is specific to this type of work, so that is the end of it. At the time when that would be the case, you asked us to look at it again. Then the intention is that this compulsory education, if there were, should simply be included. We need to look at that when it's time. We do not know at present any example that would satisfy that. The next subject is a completely or largely unpredictable pattern of work. An important change and improvement in relation to the current situation is that we strengthen the rights of workers working on the basis of a whole or largely unpredictable pattern of work, so that they are given a minimum level of predictability. If, to a large extent, the time at which the work is carried out is determined directly or indirectly by the employer, there is a largely unpredictable pattern. That is important: when is it and is it mostly? The employer must then establish reference days and give four days in advance clarity. Then Mr Smals asked about the difference between a call contract and an employment contract with a largely unpredictable pattern of work. The law provides that a call contract is an agreement whereby the amount of work per month is not fixed as a single amount of work, or where the employee is not entitled to pay if it does not work. That's a call agreement. It is therefore irrelevant for the question whether an employment contract is a call contract whether there is an unpredictable pattern of work. A call agreement will have an unpredictable pattern of work because the employer can summon the employee. The second is that there may also be an unpredictable pattern of work if there is no call agreement, for example if you have a fixed agreed working time, but the employer can classify the employee at certain times. So you do have a guaranteed working time, but you don't know in advance when you have to work those hours. Calls for tender were already subject to a legal obligation of those four days under the current law. This obligation now also applies under the new law to contracts of employment with a largely unpredictable pattern of work. So it gets better, more predictable for the employee. Mr Smals also asked how to deal with a non-pre-established schedule in a fixed contract of employment, and within what time limit that should be known in advance. As I have just said, a contract of employment for an indefinite period can also be a contract of call. In the case of a call for tenders, it is decisive whether the amount of working time per month is clearly defined. That must again be known four days in advance, and if it is cancelled, the employee is entitled to pay within those four days. If the employer makes that call within a period of less than four days, the employee is not obliged to respond to this call, but of course that is allowed. This prevents the employee from in fact having to be permanently available. But an employee can of course say freely that he will, for example, come to cover for his sick colleague, or he will come when it is very busy. Of course, that's allowed; it's not allowed anymore. Mrs Van Beuker asked whether this new article, Article 628b, should also apply to those for whom only part of the hours are unpredictable, but who, of course, can be affected. A working pattern is entirely or largely unpredictable if it is largely determined directly or indirectly by the employer. This may be the case if the employer assigns or requires a reply to client requests. The Directive does not now explain what is meant by "total or largely unpredictable." This will, of course, have to become clearer in practice at some point. We want to implement the government's position on directives purely. We also consider it more appropriate within our European cooperation to say that we are implementing the directive purely, so that we are also comparable with other countries. This also means that we do not go beyond the frameworks outlined in the directive. That therefore means that I cannot broaden Article 628b in this legislative proposal, because that would not fit for pure implementation. Then there's the restraining order for secondary work. Many of you referred to the fact that, unless there is an objective justification for this, the employer should not prohibit an employee from carrying out secondary work. At the moment, nothing is regulated by law regarding the performance of secondary work or its obstruction. By the way, if you want to be able to rely on it as an employer, you have to agree in your contract. Then the principle is that that clause with a ban on ancillary activity is null and void unless the employer has an objective justification. Examples of justification include health and safety, protection of the confidentiality of business information, integrity of public services or avoidance of conflicts of interest. A breach of the Working Time Act may also give rise to a justification. Think of someone who is a taxi driver in the night and works in a hospital in the morning. This can be about health and safety, but also about the Working Time Act. That objective justification does not need to be established by the employer in advance. The employer can therefore assess on a case-by-case basis whether the employer has an objective justification. This may vary on a case-by-case basis, and this can change especially in time. If you would now include in an employment contract what is explicitly covered by it, in advance, then you don't know if you have another case for it two, three, four years from now, also because we see that working conditions, contracts but also what competitors do can change. So I do not think it is appropriate to oblige the employer to make this known in advance. This can really lead to problems in practice for that employer and even for the employee, especially since this change cannot be predicted over time. What is important, however, is that we will also include this in our information campaign. As part of this information campaign, we also want to ensure that employers are aware of the need to provide clear information on this issue. Mrs Kathmann and Mrs Maatoug asked why they did not opt for a heavy duty interest. Once again, the legislative proposal also makes it very clear that the employer should not hinder the employee from performing multiple jobs unless the employer has an objective reason for doing so. I just mentioned it. However, the important interest in service is more restrictive than the objective ground. So there are a number of grounds which we do consider important, such as health and safety. The protection of the confidentiality of business information is, of course, part of the competitive obligation. Integrity of public services and avoidance of conflicts of interest could be included. It is therefore important that the objective justification is broader in this way than the important interest of the service. The objective justification ground "That's also important "O' is just a heavy test. The employer can't just come up with something; that's really something he has to meet. It then follows that the assessment of whether the objective justification is such that the employee's interest in being able to work elsewhere has to depart from that. To sum up: not in advance - that is really too restrictive, because it can change over time - and the weighty service interest is really narrower than what we have in mind here. Then I'll move on. There is a request for a more certain form of work. It is important that this bill adds to the current Work Flexible Act a new article that allows workers to request a form of work with more secure and predictable working conditions. That too is an improvement. The Flexible Working Act already has the possibility to request an adjustment of working time, working time and work place, but the new legislative proposal also allows you to request, for example, an open-ended employment contract or a fixed-term employment rate. Then I'll go to the briefing. Mrs Van Beuker asked about the employer's obligation to provide data: should such data be in the collective agreement or in the contract? Of course, wages and so on are always included in the contract of employment. The implementation of this Directive is based on current legislation. This means that a number of issues are included in the collective agreement, in particular the issues you mentioned: the method of payment of wages, the share of wages, the termination procedure. They are currently in the collective agreement and will continue to be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u58	I have the feeling that the Minister is going to another block, but she was also asked to reflect on the Council's argument for the case law to inform employees in advance of when they can have an extra job. That is important because, as I said, more than 200,000 people in the Netherlands need to have other jobs, additional jobs, multiple jobs, simply to get around, to pay their lives, to earn a living. The Minister says that the rights of the employee must then give way because things can change in the contract of employment. I would very much like to hear two concrete examples from the Minister of what could then change which would mean that the right of the worker would have to depart from that. Two really concrete examples, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u59	The law is being improved. First of all, the aim is to enable people to have that secondary activity, that second job. But the employer can say for objective reasons: this does not fit in with health or safety. That's a heavy ground. I cannot predict what the labour market will look like in two years or four years' time, or how jobs will change, so that an employer can say: "That does not fit. This cannot be done in terms of business confidential information, in terms of integrity." Maybe someone wants to work at a company that is now in good standing, so has a good reputation, and turns out to be a completely different company. From your own experience, you don't want a bank employee to work at a company where possibly wrong things happen. You don't know that before. So if you have to define very clearly in advance what those exceptions are, those objective reasons, then you have a very restrictive list which you still want to be able to assess on a case-by-case basis. And that can change in time. But I do agree with you that you must ensure that employers make as much clear in advance as possible. If someone works in a call center and wants to work in a flower shop, and that fits schedule technically, then of course it should be possible. This will also facilitate an employer, provided that it is practically adaptable. If someone works at a financial institution during the day and at night just as faintly put at a money-laundering company, that financial institution will not be okay with that for sound reasons. Only, you don't know how it changes in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u60	Mrs Kathmann, concluding, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u61	I did not receive an answer to my question, Mr President. I asked for two concrete examples which would put aside the Council's opinion on the case-law that workers should be informed in advance of when they should or should not have additional jobs. All the reasons mentioned by the Minister so far were not concrete and are not suddenly wiped out if we are going to settle it as the Council points out for the case-law. So I want two concrete examples where it would go completely wrong if we were to inform employees beforehand about when or not you could get the second, third, fourth or fifth job you need to just feed your children's mouths.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u62	What matters here is that the second job is allowed, unless. You're making the argument here. You say you can't do it. No, that second orbit should be, unless there are objectivable reasons that really are a heavy ground why it isn't allowed. You can just take a second job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u63	The discussion we're having right now is, are you gonna do it in advance or not? We got one and a half examples. Both examples were about illegal practices. Yeah, it's kind of weedy that you can't work at a money-laundering firm. I don't think that's a good idea anyway. I don't think that's a good idea. So let's put that aside. The question is then the following. We have a directive to clarify it and to have predictability. You're making the point within the family: what do I need to get by? That's what you're talking about. Then you want to know: what are these grounds? And that's what you want to know in advance. The Minister says: over time you can change the rules of the game or you can redefine it, because anything can happen. My question is: why not in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u64	That is not changing the rules of the game, because there are just those objectible grounds. Those are really hard land too. On this basis, the employer must have a very clear account of why the employee cannot have that second job at the time. But imagine being a taxi driver and working in health care. Then your shift as a taxi driver shifts to the night. Then you can say as an employer in healthcare: you cannot perform medical treatment in my hospital if you haven't taken a break first. Yeah, that's a situation that's changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u65	Fortunately, we have the Working Time Act. So I still don't see a problem. The discussion we are having is about the following. The Minister himself states the grounds, which would then be clear. I'm gonna let you have that discussion. Then you have objective grounds. The question is: if they are so objective and clear, why do we not do so in advance? That gives clarity and predictability. You have now mentioned three examples. Two of them were illegal practices and the third is covered by working conditions legislation. So my question is: why not give that clarity in advance, so that people have that predictability? That is exactly the purpose of this directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u66	But those grounds for justice are also very clear, aren't they? I have just mentioned a number of them. Only, what you want is for an employer to say specifically: you can work in a flower shop, but you can't be a night taxi driver. For the years to come, it is impossible to hold on to what it is and what it is not. In that respect, in a relationship between employer and employee, it is also just about good faith that you come out together. And it's really gonna be better than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u67	Finally. We now have a situation in which it is unclear. That is why there is this directive. Those roles are clarified. On the advice of the Council for Justice, too, we are asking: please make it clear in advance. That's what we need, because we see a lot of stuff on the work floor. This is not about trust, because in many cases it is not about trust. The Court of Justice says: have the grounds clearly in advance. The longer this interruption debate lasts, the less clear the Minister's argument is for me. Actually, I haven't heard a heavy argument. Because it's so unclear, you could do it in advance. Then give clarity to all parties. I would like to give the Minister another thought: listen to the Council for the sake of justice and give that clarity in advance. That is exactly the purpose of this law. Yeah, it's an improvement, but it could be even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u68	I'm glad Mrs Maatoug can see that it's an improvement. I would like to make that point here. This is not the only element that is an improvement. Two. The longer we talk about it, the clearer it is how difficult it is to clarify it to the future. And three. I have also heard Mrs Maatoug not give an exhaustive list of things that should be in it to make it clear, so that your case can assess what is going on in each case, which then applies for the next five years. You can't. The problem is that that case can vary and change in time per case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u69	This is really interesting. We have been working on this debate for some time now. There has been a lot of discussion between the Chamber and the Minister, and the Minister must defend himself and so on. This is based on something that has pushed Brussels, the European Commission to our Parliament. Is this not the perfect example to show that the European Commission really should not interfere with our regulations at all? Wouldn't it be much better if this minister himself, on the basis of her own findings, came up with his own rules to solve problems that are or aren't visible in the labour market at the moment? Is this not why we should do it ourselves and why the European Commission should not interfere?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u70	As Mr De Jong knows, I attach great importance to a well-functioning European Union. This also includes the fact that we regulate certain directives and rules at European level, that there is a certain minimum level that you can count on in the different European countries in the different working conditions. By the way, when it comes to labour markets, the division of competences between the Union and the Member States in the social policy area is laid down in all the EU treaties that we as the Netherlands have just signed. When it comes to social labour market policy, there is a shared competence between the Union and the Member States. This means that both the Union and the Member States can take legislative action. You can do that in very different ways. We want to implement this directive purely to ensure that it remains comparable in the different European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u71	What would be pure would be if this minister understood that she was elected here or at least working on behalf of the Dutch people, on behalf of the Dutch people and not on behalf of a Pole or for my part a Belgian or a German because there is a certain way of regulating the labour market or social security. You're here for the Dutchman. So if the Minister is serious about the labour market or about the rights and obligations of workers and employers, then she should come up with regulations or measures to resolve matters. If we take it into account the current situation, what is in this directive that we could not do ourselves? We can all do it ourselves. Then what does a directive need? What do we have to do with how they handle things in Poland? They should take care of that in Poland themselves. Why doesn't this minister just stand before the Dutchman? Why does she care about a situation in another country? Just come up with your own ideas and with your own regulations. You are in the Dutch Parliament, not the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u72	What happens in other European countries does indeed affect the Netherlands. When the working conditions in another country are much less than in the Netherlands, you get competition on working conditions. That is one of the things that we here, including the Parliament, think we should not want to do. The moment we have migrant workers in the Netherlands, you want those migrant workers to have decent working conditions. We've got Roemer's entire report; we're gonna talk about it in a couple of weeks. Think about the platform workers. These are all matters that have a major impact on the day-to-day work of employees in the Netherlands and for which you will also need European regulations to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u73	For example, when it comes to the exploitation of migrant workers, it would work very well to introduce employment permits. Is the Minister coming up with a proposal today, and she is now bringing it up herself to submit employment permits? When it comes to working conditions: I know people who are working in the meat industry, who have previously earned €1,900 or €1,800 gross and are now faced with lower wages due to the arrival of all kinds of workers from Eastern Europe. So it prints the wages for the Dutch: €1,400 instead of that €1,900 gross. So, if you're serious, are you going to come up with employment permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u74	In my view, Mr De Jong has just given this example precisely why it is important that we work together in Europe, because that is about social cohesion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u75	One sentence, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u76	Rounding up. Butter on the fish. Are you going to apply for employment permits today, which you can do nationally, yes or no? If you don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u77	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u78	Well, then you don't care at all. Then you are only dealing with European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u79	Yes. Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u80	As you know, I am very concerned about the labour market in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u81	Fine. Is the Minister ready to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u82	I was just talking about Europe in between. Let's see where we are. Mrs Kathmann asked a number of questions related to the drafting of the ESC's MLT opinion: the basic contract, full contracts, decent contracts with decent hours. We will certainly include these in the discussion with employers and employees in the context of SER-MLT. That will therefore be discussed at the time when we will, hopefully, discuss with you the outline letter on what we want to do on the labour market. You asked five questions about that, I believe. They're all in that discussion. Then I have the two amendments here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u83	Mrs Kathmann on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u84	Then I would like to have a commitment that the appeal of employers to giving workers working hours will also be included in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u85	Yeah, well, if I'm not mistaken, what "consistent working hours" are. I think I understand that. That is certainly one of the elements that I can take into account in those discussions about the development of SER-MLT, how to create a more balanced labour market. That is, of course, about the fact that flex needs to be less flex.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u86	Fine. The amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u87	Mrs Maatoug's amendment and Mrs Kathmann's amendment or vice versa: Mrs Kathmann and Mrs Maatoug. We have just discussed it, ancillary work on an explicit objective justification. I'm gonna have to dissuade that piece. You asked me to be brief. We just talked about it. We have also briefly discussed this before. I therefore advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u88	The amendment in part No. 8, I'll add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u89	Yeah, for both these grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u90	Then there is the amendment to item No. 9 by Mrs Van Beuker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u91	Then there is Mrs van Beuker's amendment. We have just talked about pure implementation. This directive stipulates that workers' rights should be strengthened with this largely unpredictable pattern of work. You also ask for this to be applied to situations where not all times are contractually fixed. That goes beyond what the directive is asking for. So it goes beyond pure implementation. Now I know D66 as a very European party, so I can only say: if we do not want to go beyond the directive, then we do not want to introduce any rules other than strictly necessary. In addition, the question is whether the amendment will lead to greater clarity. In particular, if you follow a strict explanation of Mrs Van Beuker's amendment, this may mean that, for example, requests to replace colleagues or to exchange or take over services are included. That is the occasional flexibility, which is not about "mostly unpredictable," but about that little bit unpredictable. It is really a question of whether you want to take this with you in terms of content. And the question to a D66 MP is whether she wants to ignore the pure implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u92	And what does that mean for the appreciation of the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u93	Right now, I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u94	That's what I thought; I felt that coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u95	Yes, because this is not pure implementation. And we hold it high.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u96	I also felt that this amendment would be discouraged. I think what you're saying is very procedural. You say that we are opting for pure implementation, so for the EU directive exactly as it stands. I think the Chamber can make additions. I am, however, sensitive to the last argument you mentioned, namely that it could also have a side effect. So I'd like to take a closer look at that. However, I would like to point out that the Chamber can always make additions. So it is fine that you say on procedural grounds: we are doing a pure implementation. But it's also up to the Chamber to look into that. I even think that Mr De Jong might be happy about that, because then we will also adapt things of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u97	Mr. De Jong isn't easy to get happy, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u98	I'm gonna go into this a little bit, Mr. Chairman. The second point is indeed substantive, and the first is procedural. It is therefore a question of whether this "largely" should also apply to that smaller piece on an occasional basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u99	Fine. Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u100	I think so, Mr. Chairman. I've run out of notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u101	Anyway, we haven't had Mrs Maatoug yet. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u102	Very good, Mr. Chairman. I spoke a little quickly, so I can imagine that not everything has happened. But I have asked another question about combining jobs and what you then run into, for example in the case of tax rebates.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u103	That's right. You asked that question, and I miss my answer to it. You had a tax question. And as always, you had an interesting question. I'm gonna go check my notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u104	Why don't we just do the answer in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u105	Yes. I lost a piece of paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u106	Unless you still find the paper in your bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u107	I'm afraid I've lost a piece of paper. Can I answer in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u108	Yeah, we'll do that in the second term. We'll proceed with that second term immediately. I give the floor to Mr Smals of the VVD Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u109	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the answers to the questions. One more question needs clarification as far as I am concerned. We have already talked about the concept of "mostly" in the context of these contracts of employment. With me, there is still the question: what is "greatly"? The minister has already shed a little bit of a hint of the veil. Can she tell us anything else about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u110	Now Mrs Van Beuker of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the official support for answering the questions we have asked. At the end, when we were talking about the amendment, the Minister gave a small warning. She said: it may also mean that employees will not be able to replace others as easily as possible. I do not really agree with that, so I simply want to maintain our amendment. I also understand that several signatures have now been signed. We will therefore amend the amendment. So I would also like to put the amendment to the vote next week. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u112	Thank you. I call Mr De Jong of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u113	Mr President, thank you very much. It was really shocking how the Minister in the end responded to my example about that meat worker. This person has seen his own wages fall as a result of the arrival of Eastern Europeans and his own purchasing power decline. This is due to the open border policy, and that is the fault of Brussels. What does the Minister say? She says: the ruins of Brussels must be solved by even more Brussels and by even more European Union. That really is a disgrace and a blow to the face of these people who are involved in this. They are facing a massive decline in purchasing power. The Minister doesn't care. That's shocking, really shocking. I will come back to it in a later debate. Now the next motion to put a stop to all these directives. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to actively oppose EU involvement in our social and labour market policies and not to implement the continuous flow of binding proposals and guidelines from Brussels in the field of social security and labour market policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Léon de Jong and Mr Maeijer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35962-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u114	Mr. Chairman. In the debate before this, I said that I was cheerful in my own right because of the Minister's red jacket. I thought: I am hopeful about what we are going to do here today in the social field. But it's gross, and that's really an understatement. We are talking about the implementation of a European directive. The objective of that Directive is for Member States to ensure that an employer cannot prohibit an employee from working for other employers. And what are we doing here? By simply saying "objective reasons," we immediately give the possibility to employers to prohibit those workers from going to work for others. Why is that so bad? Because 200,000 people in the Netherlands depend on not two jobs every day but sometimes three or four jobs, simply because they don't have enough to eat otherwise. And that's because a lot of employers aren't willing to offer decent hours. That's why we're here. And now we're going to cut these people off because because of the vague, big concept of "objective reasons" they're going to be denied jobs. My question to the Minister is as follows. How are we gonna monitor this? How many lawsuits are going to be enough to bring this directive into line? How many lawsuits, how many black books, how many do we have to step up here to get it adapted and get it clear to both employer and employee? That's not out of mistrust, but that's just so people can live a decent life in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u115	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Maatoug of the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u116	Mr. Chairman. The nice thing about being a last speaker is that you can say things like: everything that the previous speaker said, I like to underline. I have one motion. I'll submit it now, even though I'm waiting for an answer. The motion deals with the combination of jobs and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that having two jobs has an impact on income tax, as only one employer can apply a wage tax reduction;]] [[noting that people do not always have this sharpness and that this can lead to unexpected post-taxes that can cause people problems;]] [[calls on the Government to develop options to improve information on this subject, including explicitly the role of employers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maatoug and Mr Kathmann.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35962-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u117	Finally, Mr President. We have just discussed it in the interrupting debate. Mrs Kathmann's questions were very clear. I hope the Minister's gonna promise that we're gonna monitor that. The legislation is unclear. On the basis of experience in the workplace, it is clear from practice that there is already a lack of knowledge of how the legislation should be applied. Let us then ensure that the legislation is immediately clear. Do that in two ways. Do it in advance and don't leave people in uncertainty. Make sure that definition is very sharp. I hope colleagues will take a good look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u118	Thank you very much. So much for the Chamber's term. The Minister is going to give some thought to the response to the two motions. We can do that in ten minutes, I think, don't we, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u120	Okay. I'll suspend for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u121	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I think it is important to reiterate that it is really an improvement on the current situation. Many elements in this law make the situation more predictable for the employee and thus clearer. Mr Smalls asked: what exactly do we mean by a whole or largely unpredictable pattern of work? This is the case if, directly or indirectly, the work schedule is largely determined by the employer. An example of this is the assignment of work assignments. It is really about the influence that the employer has on the times at which work is to be carried out. For example, an employee works 12 hours a week. The employer may classify the employee from Monday to Friday between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. That is, of course, the typical situation with a call centre, for example. Then you have a whole or largely unpredictable work pattern. This worker will be further protected immediately by the implementation of this Directive. So this directive gives you a minimum level of predictability, partly because of the four days and all that is in it. Only, it is not for me to clarify and clarify the concept of "totally or largely unpredictable." After adoption, the interpretation of the directive is no longer for the Member States, but for the European Court of Justice. That is, of course, where it is eventually crossed out in the justice system, through all the steps. Mrs. Van Beuker. Let me say again: this really is an improvement in the current situation. You know that, too. I would like to remind you once again of the second half of my arguments on the substance. It might make things more unclear. That's something we don't want. Then the motion to part No. 11 by Mr De Jong. I'd advise against it. You won't be surprised. Mrs. Kathmann. Like I said, it's really gonna get better. You just spoke of all sorts of reasons why you don't think so. I don't agree with you. This really is an improvement in the current situation. I understand you have concerns. I also understand that you are asking me to monitor how we deal with the practice of ultimately playing out employers who would ban workers from doing secondary work. I'm sure I'd like to monitor that. We need to see how much time it takes to get over that. Because of course you have to have a certain time span and a certain amount of cases to look at. But you have a commitment that we will keep a close eye on that. Mrs Maatoug.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u123	The motion is dissuaded, but there will be no support at all. I'd understand why it's being dissuaded. But the Chamber is filing motions here. It would be decent to justify why a proposal is not accepted by the Chamber or why it is supported or not, no matter how different we may be. I just want an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u124	Mr President, after the previous debate, you yourself asked me to make a pointy and brief assessment of the motions. That's what I was trying to provide.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u125	Mr De Jong then asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u126	This is seriously the reaction? You don't think it's rude to do it that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u127	Whoa, whoa, whoa. Let's keep it friendly, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u128	I'm just asking if you can back up why you're dissuading a motion. That has nothing to do with being pointy. You can dissuade pointy. You can do that in a way where we as a Chamber then draw conclusions or no conclusions. I am a representative of the people: a little respect with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u129	I have tried to respond as briefly as possible to the request you made as President of this debate. You have also been kept to a certain period of time. I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u130	Have you assessed Mrs Maatoug's motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u131	No, I was still with Mrs Maatoug's question. I was just about to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u132	And Mrs Kathmann, what is your question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u133	I would like to ask the Minister whether something more concrete can be made about how and when it will be monitored and how it will be linked back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u134	The method of feedback seems to me to be the usual: via a letter. As far as monitoring is concerned, I'm gonna take it out of my head. I think that after one and a half or two years we have sufficient insight into how the directive works. So we can keep an eye on what kind of cases come up. Then we can keep an eye on whether or not things are getting out of hand. I don't think so. We can investigate that. I understand that I am not very specific, but let me say what we can do. From the ministry, from the department, we can monitor what happens in situations like this. Let's just say we're doing an evaluation after two years. That seems concrete to me. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Maatoug's question; that is not yet the motion, but they do have to do with each other. Mrs Maatoug said that a post-tax is a bottleneck. We do not currently have a map of how many people that is. We will, in consultation with the Secretary of State for Taxation and Tax Administration, look for and provide information to your Chamber, of course, as far as it is available. Otherwise, we're gonna have to look deeper. In consultation with the Ministry of Finance, we will also pay more attention to the tax consequences of having two jobs. We will do so in our own communication campaign on this directive, but also in a broader way. For example, people know better in advance that a tax rebate only applies once. That is my verdict on the motion: "Examination Chamber." Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u135	Okay. Very good. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-12-tweedekamer-24.u136	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, on the two motions and on the two amendments. I'm suspending until 7:15. Thank you to the Minister for her presence and thanks for taking part in the debate. So far.
