ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34605, Proposal for a law of members Van Ginneken and Van Wijngaarden amending Book 1 of the Civil Code and the Basic Registration Act relating to the automatic creation of joint authority by recognition. I welcome the Lower House members Van Ginneken and Van Wijngaarden, who are defending the bill on behalf of the Lower House. I had already welcomed the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mr Recourt, who will address both the Labour Party and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on behalf of his own group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm waiting neatly until... yeah, now the microphone's working. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Labour Party, on behalf of whom I am indeed speaking, congratulate the initiators. A law that does justice to the multicoloration and variety of forms of relationship. And then literally right, because until recently our standard legal provisions were only tailored to the traditionally married heterostel. It is good to achieve a good and clear set of basic legal provisions for everyone, taking into account underlying interests. This is another step in the right direction. With the acquisition of parental authority at the same time as recognition, parents are helped regardless of their sexual preference, regardless of their biological parenthood, regardless of their legal status vis-à-vis each other. Recognition is authority, with the exception of some exceptions provided for in the law. The automatic acquisition of authority after recognition will prevent many distressing situations and should be supported as a starting point. Think of the situation where the mother dies before the authority could be requested. As far as the underlying interests are concerned, my group still has a few questions for the initiators. They argue that joint parental authority is in the best interests of the child, an interest even included in the ICRC, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Would they like to explain again why they think so? After all, joint authority seems to be particularly important if both parents, whether or not after a divorce, cannot agree. But if there's a fight, and you can already see that at fighting divorces, but even in the years after a divorce, it's not allowed for a foreign vacation or fighting for a school choice often used in that fight. That doesn't seem to be in the best interests of the child. Can the applicants explain again why they expect the number of procedures to fall rather than increase? The desirability of joint authority as a starting point must not blind us to those situations where joint authority is not desirable because it is contrary to the interests of the child and/or the mother. I am thinking in particular of situations of domestic violence. Family law must also provide a just solution in these situations, in which, in accordance with the Istanbul Convention, the safety of the victim of violence is protected alongside the interests of the child. Our groups are therefore pleased with the rule contained in the legislative proposal that, in the event of a recognition obtained after replacement by the court, no automatic authority is created, but a separate judge's decision is required. The groups of GroenLinks and the Labour Party consider it very important that both parents are involved in the child. The question is whether this should always be legally imposed. The State Committee on Parenthood recommended that the authority should not be automatically linked to recognition, because taking responsibility for the care and education of a child should be a conscious choice. Can the initiators explain again why they have ignored this advice and parents who do not want to be responsible for education get this legal status automatically? Moreover, it remains possible, even after this proposal, to retain a single head of authority. In order to clarify the practice, one further question concerns the formal requirement for the explanation of one-headed authority of the mother. The original legislative proposal contained in Article 25.1 (b) (1) (f) that no joint authority was established on recognition, and I quote: 'if the mother and the connoisseur jointly declare that the authority is exercised solely by the mother by producing a notarial act or before the civil servant'. In the legislative proposal now before us, this is shortened to: "The mother and the connoisseur have declared that the authority is exercised only by the mother." So there are no formal requirements in the law anymore. It is obvious that, for the purposes of recognition, Mother, I do not mean "for" in time, but "for the purposes of recognition," she will go to civil status. But if the child gets the mother's last name, it doesn't have to be recognized. Then it is sufficient if the connoisseur brings a declaration of consent from the mother. Can the initiators indicate what this is about with the statement of one-headed authority, mother? Is a declaration of consent sufficient or does the formal requirements set out in the explanatory memorandum still apply, as amended following the opinion of the Council of State, namely a declaration to the official or a notarial act? I also have a question for the Minister about the administration register. This register is consulted, for example, by doctors and therapists to see who should allow medical treatment. It is also consulted by the Royal Marechaussee with a single parent with child. The register must provide a quick and clear answer on who is responsible for the authority of a child. Consulting the register is very simple, but drawing a conclusion about authority is not a sinecure. This is already the case under the current law. In fact, the register does not record the authority as it stands, but only the decisions of authority. If the parents are married and there is no record in the register, then there is joint authority. If the parents are unmarried and there is no record, then there is no joint authority. Where knowledge of family law is already needed in order to be able to read the register of authorities, this will become even more complicated. In the case of a child born of unmarried parents before the date of entry into force of the law, the absence of a note means that mother has sole authority. But if the child is born after entry into force, then a note does not mean joint authority. At least, usually, because it's different when the mother, for example, was underage. Then, on the other hand, there is no joint authority unless it has a declaration of consent, because then there will be joint authority. This is a legal puzzle that most doctors and therapists will not understand, and I would say for most lawyers it is no longer. Think, for example, of the child therapist who wants to know whether she can agree to a necessary treatment of a child if the father does not agree to it. You might as well ask yourself if this is gonna get the hell out of the way. We really need to find a solution to this. We would like to hear from the Minister whether he recognizes this problem and how he is going to ensure that consultation of the register of authorities really gives us a clear picture of who has the authority over a child. I would like to add that this can also be done in a later letter, but I would like to do so within a given time limit. Finally, Mr President. I know from my own experience how difficult it is to make good legislation in the area of personal and family law. Conflicting interests fight for legal protection and there are at least ten exceptions to every rule. Customization gives arbitrariness and ambiguity, but too generic regulation does not do justice to the many variations. I therefore congratulate the initiators once again on their law, which has passed neatly between the aforementioned dilemmas and which has found a concrete and clear solution to a specific problem. It's never ideal, but it's better than it was, because it does justice to changed times. I say once again that we, both the Green Left and the Labour Party, are looking forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mr Recourt. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, a compliment to both Lower House members for defending this initiative legislative proposal. It is always a lot of work, but it is one of the most beautiful aspects of the Dutch Parliament's work to guide an initiative proposal through the parliament and thus to work on the organisation of society and improve it. Mr Van Wijngaarden was there from the beginning, together with Vera Bergkamp. From her, Mrs Van Ginneken has taken over the most important work. So compliments on behalf of the D66 Group. What's this bill about? This bill ensures that unmarried parents are automatically given joint authority in the recognition of the child. So you're gonna press charges, you're gonna acknowledge the kid, and then you're gonna automatically get the authority. That's in the best interests of the child. But the importance of the child is, of course, a container concept. It does not always indicate what that interest is. I've been a judge myself in the family room of the Alkmaar courthouse for years. I've had a lot of parents in court who were diametrically opposed, with all kinds of views about their children. They both said it was in the best interests of the child, but you couldn't relate it to each other. That was, of course, in conflict situations after divorce. That is the first reason why D66 is enthusiastic about this bill, because the joint authority is granted automatically at the time of recognition. As a rule, this is a stage in which there are no differences of opinion. Should the parents break up later, the joint authority will remain, unless the main rule is waived. The main rule of the bill prevents quite a lot of legal conflicts, conflicts where the child is often the child of the account. My question to the initiators is: do they think that the change of the law as they propose will really bring about a major change in practice? The legislative proposal encourages parents to have equal responsibility for care and education. That is one of the starting points. When it comes to the importance of the child, these principles are set out in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. A great deal has already been said about this in the written preparation. I am actually full of repeating Article 18. This gives a mandate to the Member States, including the State of the Netherlands, to make maximum efforts to ensure that both parents can share responsibility for the education and development of the child. The parents are of course the first to be responsible, but the government has a duty to make that responsibility possible. The Convention and, moreover, the case law of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child are based on the relationship that the child may have with the parent. In addition, the marital status of the parents is not decisive at all. That is the second reason why the D66 Group is enthusiastic about this bill. After all, society in 2022 looks very different than 50 years ago. We see that more first-born children are born out of marriage and outside the registered partnership per year than in there. The main rule of the bill now before us is in line with today's family ties. Children should not suffer from circumstances affecting their parents. Under the current legislation, there is actually an unjustified distinction between children of married persons and children of unmarried persons. If you are born a child during a marriage, both your parents are automatically older and have legal parenthood and responsibility for education and support. But if you are born outside a marriage, then a number of legal acts must be performed with the risk of failure. We know from our neighborhood that parents sometimes forget to apply for authority in recognition. Later they are confronted with this and that may be difficult. The bill therefore facilitates this for parents. My question to the government is: does the Minister see any practical difficulties in implementing the new regulation? At the civil stand the execution will be thresholdless and simple. But are there any costs for the parents associated with the recognition? And if so, what are those costs and can they be an obstacle for parents? In advisory bodies there were some concerns about the point that mothers might refuse to cooperate in the recognition of the father or the duo mother, because it is automatically linked to authority. Such a refusal would not be in the best interests of the child. In our view, the initiators have removed these concerns by adapting the original legislative proposal. In Article 251b (2) they introduced the possibility that both parents may choose to recognise but without authority. You can do that outside the judge's office. That seems to us to be a fairly simple way of doing things. It also does justice to the speed required in such situations, because there may well be delays in dealing with cases of this kind in the family room. So it seems to my group to be a good thing. The question, of course, is: does this open the door for one of both parents to perhaps put pressure on the other parent not to deliver the authority? The question is: can this not be another source of conflict? I would ask the Minister to reflect and respond. A great deal has already been said about information in the written debate. I have a question for the Minister of Justice. If the proposal takes effect, how is the Minister going to ensure that civil servants know what to do with the examination of the exceptions now contained in the legislative text, i.e. the exceptions to the main rule of that joint authority automatically? What will information be available to citizens? Can the Minister tell us anything about that? Then there is a cry from my group on legal aid. Over the past few decades, I might add, we have seen that there has been increasing cuts in social law. The previous Minister for Legal Protection had even announced that, for example, divorces and family matters would not be given more but less financial space for social lawyers. My question to the Minister is: can he promise us that there will be more room for social lawyers in family law matters? Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the last name.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u6	Fortunately, the coalition agreement states that there will be more money for the social lawyer. In the case of divorces, it is sometimes the case that one of the two is eligible for social lawyers and the other is not. That gives rise to great inequality. One can then proceed and the other can't. Can I understand Mr Dittrich's question in such a way that he says: if there is more money for the social lawyer, then it is also for mediation-like pathways and pathways in which both parties are included in the dispute?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u7	I hear Mr Recourt say the word'mediation'. That's like pressing a button on me. I immediately tend to say yes, because mediation is extremely important, especially in family law. My impression is, also on the basis of the past, that a lot of conflicts can be channeled or even prevented if mediation is used. This sometimes requires financial support. If I understand Mr Recourt's question correctly, he asks me whether I think that should be looked at in the broadest sense. I would like to pass on that question to the Minister for Legal Protection. D66's view is that there should be no imbalance between conflicting parties. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the last name. I believe that Mr Recourt has already asked about this. What's the arrangement for the child's last name? In the last century, there were situations where the mother said, "I don't want the father's recognition." I know that from my own experience. The recognition automatically gave the child the last name of the father. The mother didn't want that in such a situation. This automation has been disconnected over time, but can the Minister outline the current state of affairs regarding the granting of the child's last name on recognition? Do the parents have freedom of choice now? And if there are several children in one family, is that freedom of choice unlimited or do all children in the same family make up the same last name? This is linked to the question of whether this bill will in any way change anything about it. Finally, in the letter from the Minister for Legal Protection concerning the review of the feasibility of this new legislation, I saw something about an evaluation. I believe that the Minister said that we are all going to evaluate this five years after entry into force. My question to the Minister is whether he would pay particular attention in this evaluation to the accessibility and affordability of the new regime. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u9	Mr President, allow me to supplement you in so far as I am speaking on behalf of the Christian Union Group as well. Then I'd like to start with the words "everything is family." That is, of course, confirmed on all sides when you look at the images of the war that Russia started against Ukraine. It's heartbreaking what those Ukrainian and Russian families are going through. We sympathize with them. But, Mr President, now we have to talk about the rules that apply to Dutch families. It is a matter of ensuring that, if a child is recognised by a person not married to the mother, it is directly linked to the joint authority. By doing so, you anticipate that parents often fail to sign their joint exercise of authority in the registry. The aim of the proposal is, among other things, to avoid problems when parents break up or when there is much less harmony about education. In doing so, the initiators want to safeguard the best interests of the child. For this reason alone, it is commendable that the initiators are putting so much energy into their proposal. The minister's in our midst, too. On behalf of my group and that of the Christian Union, I would like to congratulate you on your new position and wish you every success. Mr. Chairman. You can understand that parents do not always take the different steps in time to give their families legal form. In times of love happiness and having children, you do not always have an eye for arranging a social contract, wills, naming, recognition and the joint exercise of authority. In the end, it is always easy for everyone to talk afterwards if things go wrong in a relationship, if no agreements have been made and if there are serious negative consequences for children. On the other hand, as partners, parents, you can choose to marry, to enter into the registered partnership. Only because of possibly having children can you say: we are going to take that step. Now my group has looked at the answers to our written question whether those interests should not be included in the question of whether or not you want to formalise your relationship. Well, the initiators say quite simply that parents are increasingly "for their muffled reasons do not opt for a marriage or registered partnership." Even if you consider marriage or registered partnership to go too far as parents, it would certainly be wise to take responsibility for changing the legal form of the family. It's really easy to talk afterwards, but for the sake of the child, you can at least expect that from parents. This means that they must have the joint exercise of authority written when they intend to raise the child together. Mr. Chairman. Then you come to the big question: what if that didn't happen? Then what is really in the best interest of the child? Is this the current arrangement, where the authority rests with the mother in the end, or would that be an arrangement in which the authority lies automatically with both parents? The parties of the CDA and of the Christian Union do not find the answer to this obvious. Mr Recourt also asked about the importance of the child when it comes to this bill. Do the political groups also recognise the significance of what that state committee has said? That state committee has said that if you choose to take responsibility together for the care and upbringing of a child, this must be a conscious choice. It therefore fits in with a joint decision to exercise the authority over the child. If there is no such decision, it would therefore be better for the child to have sole authority over the mother. The initiators said in the written answer that the state committee report would no longer be of this time, because you have a variety of forms of relationship in the present time. The crucial question is, of course, how do the initiators consider the child's interest there? I was also reminded of a response from the then Secretary of State for Justice, Mrs Kalsbeek. It was a response to an amendment from 2001 by MP Rabbae. That amendment was the same as the legislative proposal we are discussing. She said that it is not desirable that the interests of the connoisseur should simply prevail over those of the mother and the child. According to the State Secretary, depending on the circumstances of the case, it was necessary to assess whether the authority should be shared by the connoisseur. If you are talking about a situation in which it is unclear whether you are going to raise a child together, or where it is evidently and explicitly not the intention to do so, then it is not obvious at all to say: recognition also means authority immediately. Now, in their written response, the initiators have stressed the importance of good information: "Among other things, a clear standard comment can be considered on the consequences of recognition on the authorisation form of recognition to be completed by the mother." If the initiators attach such importance to good information, you will immediately come to the advice of the Council of State, because he said: is it not better to use information instead of introducing the rule that recognition brings authority, to prevent the father from having no authority? That is the question that the groups of the CDA and the Christian Union would like to put to the initiators. The Council of Justice has also attached great importance to the widespread awareness of this application for joint authority. If you look at all this, you could say that in all cases an information impulse is needed: either after the law change comes into force, if it were to be adopted, an impulse with information to the mother that recognition now also means the father's authority or, should the bill be rejected, an impulse that makes clear to both parents that recognition of the child does not automatically mean that the father also has the authority. If it is the good intention to take care of the education together, it is also important to ensure that joint exercise of authority is recorded in the register of authorities. More specifically, our question to the initiators is as follows: if it is not clear whether the bill really serves the child's interests, is it not better to use this latest information campaign? The change in the law, which may do more harm than good, does not have to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u10	On this point, a question to Mr Doornhof. He has mentioned a number of advisory bodies and said that they are more on the information trail, but he forgets to mention, for example, the association of family lawyers. It has also been consulted and has identified many problems in practice which can be prevented or resolved precisely by the transposition of the main rule, as is the case in the legislative proposal. Has Mr Doornhof taken this into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u11	It is good that Mr Dittrich is asking that question. We did. On the one hand, of course, you have the question of the best interests of the child. Those are pretty serious questions. Of course, the initiators have also expressed this in the interest of the legislative proposal. Like Mr Recourt and the Christian Union, we ask the question: is the child's interest served if you adopt this proposal? There are also practical objections. You and I, through the President, can have a long discussion about this. Professor Punselie also said of course that it is only the question how this will work out in the courtroom. These are situations that you do not want to discuss for too long, but of course that is where you end up in the extreme. You yourself have put forward in your speech, and you have experienced it as a judge, how water and fire are at stake in the courtroom. That's sometimes over the kid's head, I'd almost say. The question then is: what brings the bill to the position? Now it is often the connoisseur who has to fight with the judge to get that authority. Of course, you are going to have more of a reversal, namely the mother who has to say: I want to get the father at a distance, because this joint exercise of authority is not in the best interests of the child. So I understand what the association of family lawyers is saying, but I also see what is being said in science about the new relationships in court, so to speak. If you count all that together, I'm not really prepared to give a final judgment on that with you. As I said, you yourself have the experience, so I may not be in a position to contradict you. But I'll get back to the other advice. Let's just look at the content of those opinions. On that basis, I say that it must be a conscious choice. That is what the Wolfsen Committee says. And is it not better to focus on the importance of information? That is what the Council of Justice says, and so does the Council of State. At the moment, we are questioning the best interests of the child more than the statement: there are practical objections which should nevertheless mean that we are currently considering voting in favour of the proposal. We also have doubts as to whether the objections are justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u12	I think everyone agrees that the majority of matters will be covered by the main rule. That happens automatically, unless there are grounds for exception. My question to you, as CDA spokesperson and also spokesperson on behalf of the Christian Union, is: do you not think that, as a legislator, we should make it easier for the citizens of the Netherlands to change a law which makes the main rule the main rule, and that if there are exceptional situations that are regulated in this legislative proposal, then it can be invoked? If you do not agree with that, I would say that these two groups are forcing people to go to court if they do not come out among themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u13	The question is whether Mr Dittrich and I understand each other. We can continue the discussion on whether there really are so many practical objections. Like I said, I'm not convinced of that. Moreover, it would remove a very large part of the problems if parents were much more aware that recognition does not immediately entail that joint authority and that they should therefore take that step in order to have it made known to the register. If you leave that discussion, but you do see that better information can provide a solution to the problems that Mr Dittrich sees as well, then you will get to the question about the importance of the child who is so prominent. If there are too many questions about that... I don't know if you share those questions. I think you have asked a little less questions about this than, for example, Mr Recourt. But if those questions are asked, and if you have not yet heard sufficient answers from the initiators, then we can discuss for a very long time how that is going to work out in practical terms. The solution to the problem of information is still to be found. But then those doubts must mean that you are not voting for this proposal. That is how the groups of the CDA and the Christian Union are looking at it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u14	Finally. I hear Mr Doornhof say that the importance of information comes into sight. In other debates, with you among others, but also with the Labour Party, for example, we often discuss this report in this House. This means, in this context, that perhaps we still expect too much information from citizens who have just had a child and then report it. Then they'll have to take on everything again. Then it would be a kind of government service to say for the bulk of cases that the main rule is: automatic joint authority, unless. But if you go all the way on the information tour, then people need to take that information and do an extra action. My group seems to be asking for this too much in this context. My question to you is: don't you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u15	I believe that Mr Dittrich and I can find each other when it comes to understanding that this is how it all works, with those steps, with that recognition, with asking for that note in the register of authorities and so on. So we agree on that. I've shown that understanding too. I have also said that this concept does not immediately mean that you have to put aside your doubts about the importance of the child and the discussion about the practical objections. However, I would like to point out that I did say that when you, as future parents, decide whether or not to formalise your relationship through a marriage or registered partnership, the child's interests may play a role. But it is possible that we also differ on that. Because would you say 'yes' to that, then of course you will not get to the discussions that you and I have just had at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I shall now suspend for a few moments on request. Then I would like to ask the spokesmen and Mr Van Wijngaarden at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u17	I give the floor to Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Today, as already mentioned, we are discussing the initiative proposal of the Dutch MPs Van Ginneken and Van Wijngaarden. Anyway, Mr. Van Wijngaarden has been excused for a while, as it's called. The legislative proposal provides for the joint authority to be given to unmarried partners when a child is recognised by law. Before I go into the substance of the initiative proposal, I would first of all like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and the petitioner's singularity to this House and I would like to thank the authors for the work they have done. For example, the bill has been submitted for consultation to the necessary organisations, such as the Dutch Bar Association, the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, the Council for Justice, the State Committee for Private International Law and the Association of Family and Inheritance Lawyers. There seems to have been serious handling of received suggestions. I can be brief about the content. The PVV is broadly in agreement with the initiative proposal. The initiators rightly note that more and more children are born outside the marriage or registered partnership. Whatever anyone may think of that, many people deliberately choose for them. That must be taken into account, in the interests of these children. In the opinion of the PVV, the proposed changes to the own-initiative proposal do the same. Mr. Chairman. Good information on recognition and authority is essential. Our group therefore voted in favour of Mr Dekker's letter of 3 December. In this way, the information on the government website will be further strengthened and civil servants will be instructed on the new rules when the new law is introduced so that they can inform citizens arriving at the desk, including low-lettered ones, more clearly about their rights and the new, changed situation regarding authority. Mr. Chairman. In the same letter, Minister Dekker noted that the government did not expect the proposal to lead to a reduction in the number of recognitions. The proposal aims to introduce freedom of choice for parents in the form of a statement by the mother and the recognizer that the mother has sole authority. Despite the above-mentioned expectation, Minister Dekker expressed the willingness to examine, after a period of five years after the introduction of the law, whether the number of recognitions resulting from the new regime has decreased. That seems to me to be a good thing. Just to be safe, I do have a question for Minister Weerwind. In the above-mentioned letter of 3 December last, Minister Dekker indicated that no steps will be taken during this cabinet period to prevent parents who are going to divorce from providing legal aid when they are eligible in terms of income. D66 referred to that as well. Can Minister Weerwind indicate how this is now regulated and how the consequences of a possible change are monitored? I'd like a response from the Minister. The PVV considers it important that joint authority is in principle the starting point, as this is in the interest of children's development. However, there may be legitimate reasons for people to refrain from joint authority. It is therefore a good thing that parents are not restricted in their freedom to consider themselves when such reasons arise. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is about the best interests of the child. Every debate in this house shows how important it is for us to be able to debate and choose freely. Our hearts are currently going out to all the children in Ukraine and to the children on the run. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group thanks the initiators for the bill and welcomes the new minister to this house, and supports the basic idea that the form of society married or registered partners does not always say everything to unmarried or unregistered partners today about the intention to establish a sustainable parenting relationship to a child born of a social form. More than half of the first-born are born outside marriage or registered partnership. Mr. Chairman. However, there is a difference under the current law if you are born as a child with married parents or registered partners or with unmarried parents or non-registered partners. Children of married parents and children of parents with registered partnerships automatically have two parents who carry the authority. However, children of parents who do not have such a piece of paper have only one authority parent, namely the mother, provided that they are of age, even if the child is recognized by the other parent and there are therefore two legal parents. Married parents and registered partners are automatically given the joint authority. However, the unmarried partner of the mother who recognises his or her child does not automatically acquire authority under current legislation. Under the current law, the mother must give written consent to the recognition. If the mother refuses recognition, the other parent can obtain recognition only by applying to the court for a replacement authorisation. The applicant must be the sire or biological father, genetically the father but not the sire through sexual intercourse, of the child. The mother and the connoisseur can exercise joint authority only if they put it together in the central register of authority. The request must be submitted to the court. If the mother does not wish to make a joint request, the father may make a request to the judge. The judge will then examine the substance of the case. A female partner of the child's mother is largely subject to the same rules. Mr. Chairman. The proposed initiative will automatically create joint authority when the child is recognised by the other parent. Joint authority contributes to equal education and care by both parents. The Nederlandse Vereniging Familie- en erfrecht Lawyers Separation mediators and the Dutch order of lawyers confirm this. Under the bill, the connoisseur, together with the mother, acquires the joint authority over the child. In the opinion of the VVD Group, there are also cases under the legislative proposal where there are no automatic joint authority after recognition. This is the case, for example, when they jointly declare that only the mother exercises the authority. And if the parents disagree among themselves as to who is to be entrusted with authority or as to who is to be given authority, the judge shall decide on who is to be given authority. Mr. Chairman. So this bill revolves around the main rule: no no, unless but yes, unless. This removes the distinction between children born of unmarried parents and children born of married parents. This amendment is in line with the ECHR and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. That treaty states that it is in the best interests of the child that, where possible, it knows and is raised by both parents. In the view of the VVD Group, a yes-unless law is more appropriate than a no-unless law. Mr. Chairman. One of the objections to the linking of recognition and authority could be that it constitutes a threshold for the mother to authorise recognition. There may be a possibility that a request for replacement authorisation for recognition to the court may be rejected solely because of the authority attached to it. But these objections are dealt with in the law. After all, if the mother does not consent to the recognition, the person who wishes to recognise the child will be able to submit a request for replacement authorisation for recognition to the court. The court then looks at the application for recognition and authority separately from each other. If recognition is obtained with the replacement consent of the court, no joint authority shall be established by law with the parents, but the mother shall exercise sole authority. In the case of the connoisseur being the father of the child or in the case of the connoisseur being the biological father, not being the father of the child in a close personal relationship with the child, the replacement consent to recognition will be granted unless it harms the mother's interests in an undisturbed relationship with the child or jeopardises the balanced social psychological and emotional development of the child. A request for joint authority will be rejected in the event that the child is trapped and lost between parents and cannot be expected to be sufficiently improved in the foreseeable future or rejection is otherwise necessary in the best interests of the child. The link between replacement consent and joint authority would therefore limit the court's test for the granting of replacement consent. In view of its undesirableness, the coupling was not made in this case. The judge has the freedom, for example, to comply with the recognition, but not with the joint authority. This is important for the VVD Group. The mother and the connoisseur can opt for recognition and one-headed authority outside the courts. The replacement consent by the judge is only dealt with if the mother and the connoisseur do not come out together. If the mother and the connoisseur agree on one principal authority, they can arrange it outside the court. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group still has a question about the thorough information to parents about the present legislative proposal. Other colleagues have already mentioned this. Can the initiators and the minister reflect on that? The response of the initiators and the letter of the Minister for Legal Protection briefly discusses the future information on the legal consequences of recognition and authority. Since the VVD Group considers that good and clear information is essential, the VVD Group would like to ask the Minister for Legal Protection to provide further information on how to make the appointment for recognition at the time of making the appointment, for example when making the appointment online and the actual recognition at the town hall. Does the Minister agree with the VVD Group that it is important that people already have clear information about the difference between recognition and authority before they arrive at the town hall and that they do not hear this important information until they have an appointment with the civil servant? The VVD Group considers it important for partners to be able to discuss with each other in good time and on an equal footing whether they agree that the partner who recognises or the partners who recognise will also be given the authority and not only for the first time at the time of recognition. This brings me to the end of my input. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u21	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I welcome the Minister. Fun and blessing desired in the new position. Compliments to the proposers that they have managed to bring the bill to the Upper House in any case. Mr. Chairman. Parenting is a unique experience. It's one big exercise in self-denial. A child, especially if it is still very small, does not take into account the planning or needs of parents. One's own desires and needs are first and foremost. It's the other way around with the parents. Their need has to go back a little bit, to second place. Hence, self-denial. But you're gonna get a lot in return. For the SGP, the family is the cornerstone of society. That's where the child gets, if it's right, the safe place where it can grow, play and learn. This means that in principle the SGP wants to respond favourably to any legislative proposal aimed at strengthening parenthood. I agree with the initiators when they say that a child cannot do anything about the circumstances in which it is born, whether it is from married or unmarried parents. For the record, in this case, I use the same definition as the initiators; "married" includes both marriage and registered partnership legally. I don't want to hide the fact that the SGP, as we all know, is in favour of Biblical marriage as the lifelong commitment to love between a man and a woman. Mr. Chairman. Children are entitled to education and care by both parents under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article 7 (1). As far as the SGP is concerned, that is very important. Kids don't just "take" you. It is a small human being entrusted to your care and that is a great responsibility for both parents. Mr. Chairman. There are two arguments put forward by those who are not quite clear to me. The first is the fact that a large number of children are born outside the marriage relationship in themselves does not say anything about the nature of the relationship between the parents. The initiators seem to assume in advance that these are relationships in which the intention for a sustainable educational relationship is mutual. But that doesn't have to be the case. How many children are not born without a father available, because they do want the pleasures but do not want to bear the burden? These children also have the right to a loving climate and these single mothers deserve all support. The question is whether this bill really contributes to this. Also, the argument that a judge should now sue for authority and therefore lose time and money says in itself more about access to justice than about the desirability of the bill. Strictly speaking, this proposal is not about forms of relationship or safeguarding the interests of the child. At the same time, that has everything to do with these forms of relationship. Indeed, the relationship form in itself does not say everything about the intention for a sustainable educational relationship. In the view of the proposers, it is not up to the government to determine in which relationship or family situation parents wish to raise their children, as long as the best interests of the child remain central. But that's where the questions are. What exactly is in the best interest of the child? It can just become a term where we can easily assume that we all mean the same thing. But definitions matter and therefore also the conditions in which a child grows up. Of course, marriage or registered partnership is not in itself a guarantee of a lasting relationship. Unfortunately, given the many divorces, legal marriage does not guarantee the future. But that doesn't quite matter whether or not people are getting married. After all, entering into a marriage or registered partnership is a conscious act, in which the intention for a lasting relationship is publicly expressed. According to the Civil Code, this includes a number of rights and obligations, including with regard to any children. And that's why I'm having some trouble with the proposers' thesis that a marriage would be purely a formalization of the relationship. That's too skinny, isn't it? Marriage is an alliance between two people, an alliance between two individuals who promise each other love and loyalty and thus give themselves to each other. The Civil Code clearly states that spouses owe each other loyalty, assistance and assistance. It also obliges spouses to care for and educate children belonging to the family and to bear the costs of such care and education. According to the Civil Code, this applies both to the marriage and to the registered partnership. In other words, the form of relationship is not a kind of formality, but it does matter. It is precisely this framework that makes it obvious to the SGP that married parents automatically become both authorities. The fact that this is not just my opinion is underlined by the fact that many parents often take the birth or the coming birth of a child as a reason to marry or enter into a partnership. Is this relationship really as irrelevant as the initiators suggest? I'd like to hear more of that. Mr. Chairman. Another matter. In this bill, limited attention is paid to teenage mothers. They cannot exercise parental authority under the Civil Code unless they apply for a declaration of majority. Apart from obvious problem situations, I would almost say that it is a natural right that the mother should have the authority over her child, whether she is a minor or not. After all, it is not only in time order but also in order of order the first in education. She embraces the child in the safety of the mother's womb and is involved in it with all her life. If such a young mother has made the courageous decision to keep the baby, isn't it self-evident to give her parental authority automatically? And what about the difficult situation of a minor mother and a multi-year-old father, who, for all kinds of reasons, we can imagine anything about that, shouldn't we just have the authority over the child? Are the proposers sufficiently aware of these situations? What should underage parents do with the rule that recognition automatically leads to authority? They cannot exercise that authority under the current legislation. I ask the proposers and the Minister to reflect on whether the current legislation is in line with this and how, in particular, the vulnerable girls mentioned above can be better protected. I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u24	It is well known that the SGP is a warm advocate of marriage, but yet, listening to this argument, I did not hear "We are opposed to this law." "We still have a few questions, but in principle there are also good points." Did I hear that right? Is there even a chance that the SGP will vote for this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u25	Mr. Recourt, you're moving fast now. You started out so nicely constructively. Of course, I'm going to listen to the answers first. But I'm glad that's how it happened, because I think I've said it quite consciously. It is true that it is about the child's interests. The child can't help what kind of relationship it's born. So even if we are dealing with relationships that we object to in principle, perhaps you mean that the child should not suffer. That objective of putting the child's interests at the centre of attention is reflected in the legislative proposal. I take that very seriously. Whether the bill really makes a difference, I have asked a number of questions about that. But it's true that I deliberately mentioned that nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Finally, Mr Janssen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by expressing my appreciation to the initiators for bringing forward an initiative legislative proposal. It is a great asset in our parliamentary democracy that we must continue to cherish. It's not self-evident. Congratulations to the Minister for his appointment to this office. My group has some doubts about the content of the legislative proposal, in particular about its practical impact. Personal and family law is a particularly vulnerable part of our legislative system, especially when it comes to children, including in this proposal. When children are at stake, my group is at the forefront of what the impact of the proposal will be on those children. How does it make their lives better? Would it not have been possible to improve existing laws and rules in such a way as to remove existing obstacles which can now be addressed in practice? Has that been investigated by the initiators as an alternative? In practice, for example, I see Article 253c (2) as 'yes, unless'. My question to the initiators is: why could this not be improved in implementation? Is improving something existing not preferable to adding something new again? That brings me to the question of the essence of this proposal. Is this proposal just a theoretical solution, or is it going to be in practice? Disputes do not arise when all is well and the relationships between parents are good. Problems arise when there is friction, or worse, when there are totally disturbed relationships and children then literally become the child of the account. As a SP Group, we would like solutions that actually work for the children. For if there is such a conflict, of course, the question is whether recognition is to be denied to the requesting parent. Especially now, according to the proposal with recognition, that authority is also established immediately. The initiators have indicated that they think that it will not be as bad as that refusal, but my group still finds it difficult to understand what that view is based on. Looks like a gamble that can go either way. There seems to be a great risk that, precisely in the event of distorted relations, recognition, and therefore authority, will become part of the negotiations on the division of property, so to speak, disrespectfully. I therefore ask the initiators to go back to this point. Will relations not harden sooner, while the initiators indicate that this proposal will improve relations and prevent conflicts? Again, we are looking for solutions that in practice do justice to the child and also to the parents. My group also sees that there are risks of more procedures, given the far-reaching consequences of recognition. More cases will end in court, with all the costs and time involved. Kids are always hurt when parents fight their conflict with a judge. We want to avoid that where possible. I would also like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I should like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Legal Protection what possible consequences he sees of this initiative proposal for legal practice, and in particular for the assistance provided by a lawyer if the proposal would lead to more procedures. Mr Recourt and Mr Dittrich spoke about this. Does the Minister take into account an additional demand for funded legal aid in any form whatsoever, such as in the form of mediation, we will just press the button with Mr Dittrich or in another form? Does the Minister see any connection to that? I also ask the Minister how this proposal fits into his plans to strengthen access to justice, and today in particular for assistance in human and family law. That is a very specific subject. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. I'll keep my contribution brief. Almost in conclusion I can say that, overlooking everything, the initiators will have noticed...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u28	I have a point about funded legal aid. Minister Dekker has sent a letter. He stated that, despite previous attempts to cut back on legal aid, this would not be the case under family law. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u29	In practice, the words of former Minister Dekker will have to prove to be true. I think it would be a good idea if I asked the new minister, who also has political responsibility for this, to give his reflection, particularly for the rights of individuals and family. Mr. Chairman. I assume that the public gallery has also taken note of this debate. It's like old times. I would like to delete that from the Minutes. I didn't mean to say that. Mr. Chairman. Looking at everything, I say to the initiators and the minister, my questions are largely in line with the questions of my colleague Van Nispen at the treatment in the Lower House. They will recognize those questions. From the fact that I have repeated a number of questions and asked them again, the initiators may conclude that my group in this Chamber will also have to consider in particular the legality, feasibility and enforcement of the initiative proposal. I am therefore looking forward to the answers of the initiators and the Minister to the questions I have asked. In reply, I would like to see my group's positive attitude towards this proposal confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the meeting for the break until 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u31	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill 34605, Proposal of the law of members Van Ginneken and Van Wijngaarden to amend Book 1 of the Civil Code and the Basic Registration Persons Act in connection with the automatic creation of joint authority by recognition. We need the first-term response from the initiators and the government. I give the floor to Mrs Van Ginneken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the invitation to stand here today. And thanks to all members for their input. We are pleased that this bill is before us today. It's the last step in a long history. More than twenty years ago, Mohamed Rabbae wanted to establish the link between recognition and authority with an amendment. Later, Nine Kooiman asked questions about the possibility of the clutch. In 2016, Van Wijngaarden and Bergkamp brought forward the present proposal. I should like to thank Mr Bergkamp. It has always worked on many fronts to allow family law to evolve with developments in our society. That is exactly the intention of this proposal. Mr Bergkamp was the first initiator of this proposal for years. This is to be welcomed, because this proposal is rather complex compared to other legislative proposals. As a State General, we are co-legislators. It is good that Members of Parliament also dare to bring about complex own-initiative laws. It is now up to Mr Van Wijngaarden, who has been involved from the beginning, and myself, as a new initiator, to complete Mrs Bergkamp's work on this bill, if your Chamber allows us to do so. But first I would like to mention the employees who have worked hard on this bill in recent years behind the scenes: Carsten Zwaaneveld, Eva van Vorselen, Ranoe Bishoen, Koen Sijtsema, Sjors Wijlhuizen and Matthijs Hazenkamp. I would also like to thank the support of the Legislative Office and the Ministry's official support. Without the Law Office and the administrative support, it would be very difficult or even impossible to shape our role as co-legislator. Mr. Chairman. Now to the content. I would first like to address the why question. Mrs De Blécourt already asked that question, so that is the first question to be answered. This bill links the joint authority to the recognition of the child. Many countries have a system where parenthood and parental authority are automatically linked. In the Netherlands we do not know that direct link, at least not if there is no marriage or registered partnership involved. The linking of recognition and authority affects the best interests of the child. Let me go into that straight away, because not everyone in every situation will mean the same thing. We have a general framework that is largely provided by the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. That treaty and the General Comments are fundamental to our current family law and they lead the way to thinking about the child's importance. Let me illustrate this by means of two Treaty provisions: Articles 2 and 18. In line with Article 2, the bill removes the distinction between children born within a marriage and children born outside a marriage. In line with Article 18, it stimulates joint education and care by both parents. In replying to the questions I shall go into a little more detail about the importance of the child. In the current situation, these important Treaty provisions are not optimally protected. The second parent, usually the father, must not only acknowledge the child, but must also apply together with the mother for joint authority before such authority can arise. That is a separate step that needs to be taken. This situation would end with the adoption of this initiative proposal. And that is good, because there are important problems with the current situation. First of all, in practice, parents do not always get involved in regulating authority. Sometimes parents don't realize there's no joint authority yet. And sometimes it just blows in because of all the hecticness that plays around having a child. Any one of you who has children of your own can certainly imagine that. This aspect was also highlighted in the report Weten is not yet done by the Scientific Council for Government Policy. The council advises to relieve mental stress on people by, for example, simplifying rules. Stress and stress can sometimes reduce people's capacity to act. This can cause problems, in particular, but certainly not exclusively, for people who, for example, are less literate or who do not know the language properly or do not yet know the language properly. Later there may be more problems if there are conflicts between parents, while there is still one head of authority. The situation of authority will then become part of the conflict. In such a case, the connoisseur is already 1-0 behind. The parent with the one-headed authority can then use the joint authority as leverage or means of exchange. That is not in line with the above-mentioned principle that it is in the best interests of the child that both parents bear the authority. It may also happen that the mother dies, for example, or is no longer able to fulfill the authority for any other reason. The other parent must then, sometimes during a mourning period, initiate a legal procedure to obtain authority. In addition to solving all these disadvantages, the proposal contributes to a more consistent legal regime around parenthood and authority. Parenthood and authority are already linked when children are born from a marriage or registered partnership. The main rule is that a request from the parent without authority to entrust both parents with the joint authority is also granted. This parent, as said usually the father, does not need to prove to be fit to carry the authority. Only if a principal authority is necessary in the best interests of the child, the judge shall reject such a request. However, by making the current principle of recognition the legal standard, a more comprehensible and consistent legal regime will be ensured. According to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the fact that both parents hold the joint authority is also in the best interests of the child. Our family law is also largely based on the principle that both parents have an equal role in the education and care of the child. Of course, that point of departure does not stand alone, but is an interpretation of the best interests of the child. Every year 75,000 children are born outside of marriage. This is a large group, which also deserves our family law to safeguard their interests. Mr Van Wijngaarden will say more about this group later. So this bill is not in itself, but fits into the context of a broader shift of social views around family law. The proposal stands in a row of efforts from the States General to follow that shift and to legally guarantee more equal parenthood. I mentioned Mohamed Rabbae, who tried in 2001 to settle this through an amendment. Jan de Wit tabled an amendment to the Promotion Act in 2007 on continued parenting and careful separation. This added Article 242 of Book 1 of the Civil Code. This led to the law that parental authority included the obligation of the parent to promote the development of his child's relationship with the other parent, and that the child also retains the right to equal care and education by both parents after marriage, registered partnership or society with joint authority. I also mentioned for a moment that in 2011 Nine Kooiman was the one who asked questions about that link, or actually about the lack of the link between recognition and authority. After the treatment in the Lower House we are now standing here. I would like to thank Members for their contribution and also for their pleasant tone of the debate. I will try to continue that tone in my response to the questions asked. I shall begin by addressing questions about the importance of the child, the role of information and good information, and the formal requirements. I will deal with the question of the impact on practice and whether the initiators still see shortcomings. I will also address the question of whether there was an easier solution and Mr Janssen's questions on the risk of friction and additional procedures. Mr Van Wijngaarden will then answer questions about the right of name, the values of marriage, the opinion of the state committee, and underage mothers. He will also briefly reflect on Mrs Bezaan's contribution. Mr. Chairman. Let me start at the heart of the proposal: the best interests of the child. In their contribution, almost all members appointed the best interests of the child. Some of them asked how this is actually weighted. The best interests of the child, including those of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, are divided into shared interests. They must be weighed, as Mr Recourt points out. For example, children are entitled to equal protection regardless of the situation in which they are born. That's what Article 2 of the ICRC says. Article 3 states that in all measures relating to children, the best interests of the child should be the first consideration. Article 6 protects the right to development. Article 7 deals with the right of a child to know both parents and to be cared for by both parents. All these articles are reflected in this proposal. Mr Recourt therefore rightly asked about the importance of the IVRC for this proposal. For example, children are entitled to equal protection regardless of the situation in which they are born. For the initiators, it is in the context of this bill that all children are entitled to equal education and care by both parents. This is also the starting point of the existing legislation. Many scientific publications also show that the involvement of both parents in education has positive effects in many areas. The role of the father in raising children has increased in recent years. That's a good thing. At the same time, more and more children are born outside of marriage, so the second parent does not automatically have the authority over the child. The proposal solves the tension between these two developments. Both the educational and legal interests of the child benefit from the present proposal. The proposers do not see any points affecting the best interests of the child in general. Where, in an individual case, joint authority would be contrary to the best interests of the child, the proposal provides for exceptions to the creation of joint authority and for parents to refrain from establishing joint authority or, if necessary, to request the court to terminate the joint authority. Mr Recourt asked whether it was important that the involvement of both parents should be legally established, since the involvement of parents does not necessarily require a legal dimension. The initiators agree with Mr Recourt that the involvement of parents is not merely a legal commitment. We also see in the current situation parents who have not recognised the child, but who are both involved in education. However, the initiators are concerned with the equal legal protection of all children. Under current legislation there is a difference between the legal protection of children born within marriage and children born in non-formalised relationships. We consider this distinction undesirable. That is what we are trying to rectify with this proposal. Mr. Chairman. Mr Doornhof said that, for the sake of the child of future parents, you can at least expect them to sign the joint authority and asked the initiators if they agree. I would like to deal with this question in conjunction with Mr Doornhof's last two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u33	I have a question about legal protection. This is about authority. This means that both parents have joint decision-making rights on important future matters for the child. But where exactly is the child's protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u34	On the contrary, the child is protected by the fact that it may automatically experience an authority relationship between both parents. Not only does it know both parents, but it can also experience that relationship of authority. This protects the child from risks of, for example, conflicts between both parents which would result in the loss of contact with and education by one of the parents. That is the basis of this proposal. The child may therefore assume that the relationship with both parents is better secured than in the situation where parents may have omitted the application of joint authority. The latter is the case for some 25,000 children a year anyway. That is a large group, which also deserves protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u35	I understand you in such a way that the protection is in order to prevent the joint authority that a parent will drop out. Of course, it is in the best interests of the child that both parents should be as involved as possible as this can be done in a healthy way. This also applies to children born within a marriage. Then my follow-up question is next. Of course, that joint authority can also be used as a hook to fight a fight. "Why go abroad alone with that child? No way!" Or: "Why this choice of school? It's really gonna be something else." Then it's not about the child's best interests. Then you abuse this right, as it were, in your own divorce or fight. How do you estimate that, in addition to all the positive elements, which I certainly see, this could be a negative element?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u36	We will come back to this a little more in detail later, and in essence the number of conflicts in relationships between parents may not necessarily be reduced by this bill, but we do expect that the number of conflicts will be reduced where the conflict is precisely about that authority, because both parents are a priori well protected and both have a position in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u37	I rise to the questions raised by Mr Recourt. I also thought that Mrs Van Ginneken was more or less finished, because that was about the best interests of the child. Mr Recourt asked the question about the protection of the child. The starting point seems to be that, if you have that joint authority automatically, the best interests of the child are served by it. Then you say that there are also all treaty provisions with which it would be consistent. But the balance of interests that we are talking about does not, of course, simply provide the answer that it is by definition that joint authority is always good. These are the examples that Mr Recourt puts forward. For example, the Wolfsen State Commission says that if you, as parents, do not consciously choose to go together for that education, it is best that in the cases where Mr Recourt might refer to it, it is much better that the authority should simply remain with the mother and that you should not have that automatic link. So that's actually, like I said, the key question. That is how I put it in my own term, also on behalf of the Christian Union Group. That's the key question that needs to be answered. I would therefore like to ask whether this could perhaps be done a little more extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u38	Thank you for your question, Mr. Doornhof. The proposal put forward by Mr Rabbae years ago was rather categorical: the joint authority always arises. This does not do justice to the fact that, in some situations, joint authority cannot be better created, especially in the interests of the child. In our proposal, of course, we have indicated the grounds on which that authority does not automatically arise either. There is always the possibility to ask the judge for a ruling. That customization in it is extremely important to do justice to individual situations. Mr Doornhof is right that the automatic creation of automatic authority does not automatically guarantee that both parents play a good and constructive role in the education and guidance of the child. However, we do believe that it would prevent parents from having greater conflicts over that authority in conflict situations than would be the case at present. In our view, therefore, the guarantee that joint authority will be created together and that both parents will be as strong as educators is a way of preventing greater conflicts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u39	I believe that Mrs van Ginneken is a bit past the question. She admits that it may not just be established, but then we need to go back to what the proposal is for, namely for situations where it is unintentionally overlooked that the joint authority must also go to that register. We have all shown understanding that parents do not always do so and do not take all these steps: will, recognition and so on. But if so, and if that's the problem... we don't really know if it's really in the best interest of the child. I am actually discussing this with Mrs Van Ginneken. You said that at least the best interests of the child are not harmed. I think that's a little cautious. If we don't know that, shouldn't we be looking for another solution and shouldn't you say much more to parents: remember, that recognition doesn't immediately mean that you have the authority together? That was, of course, a bit at the heart of my speech, also in line with the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u40	I wanted to address the question about other solutions later, but I can take a small advance on that. The Scientific Council for Government Policy, in the report Weten, has set no limits either: more information may lead to more knowledge, but it does not do more automatically. This will not automatically increase the protection of children who do not now grow up under joint authority. So we do not support the idea that this would lead to a better route. In addition, 25,000 children grow up every year without that joint authority. We all know the stories of suddenly deceased mothers. This means that in such a mourning period fathers suddenly have to go through legal procedures while they have to be there for their child. This is a very concrete example in which the child would benefit from better protection under the law from that authority, so that in this example the father can really be there for the child, because the child has lost a mother. That is a very specific example in which this joint authority contributes to the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u41	Isn't it also about modernising the law, because so many parents aren't married? It is therefore a question of equal treatment for these children. That's in the best interest of the child, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u42	Mrs De Blécourt is quite right about that. That is also one of the starting points. I mentioned earlier that you do not really want children who are not born in a marriage or registered partnership to have less protection from the law. So I am very pleased that Mrs De Blécourt wholeheartedly supports that principle of this initiative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u43	Then I have one more question. In the situation where parents are married, isn't it sometimes better for a child that there is no joint authority? It seems to me that equal treatment is so important, for the sake of the child. If it is the wish to depart from that, the mother can always say that she does not want recognition and joint authority. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u44	Mrs De Blécourt is absolutely right. That's right. There is no automatic relationship between a good, loving, warm, joint education of the child and the legal status of the relationship of both parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u45	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u46	I am now going to say a little more about the importance of information. Mr Doornhof stated that, for the sake of the child, you can at least expect future parents to sign the joint authority. Mr Doornhof asked us if we agree. I would like to address that question in conjunction with Mr Doornhof's last two questions. He also asked whether it would not be better to focus on more information. The centre of gravity of his questions, the importance of the child, will be answered at the end. The initiators want to be careful what to expect from parents. The fact is that parents who are already married or have registered partnerships are currently not expected to have any additional action. They automatically have joint authority, for the reason they're married. This does not require any additional legal act. The fact is that I have just mentioned that no authority is requested for 25,000 children a year. In part of it, this will certainly not be a conscious choice. This proposal makes the choice of recognition a choice of recognition and authority. In addition, parents are still invited to reflect on whether or not they want to exercise joint authority. There is an exception which allows parents to explain together that they do not want to make use of the right to vote, so that the mother is given sole authority. That is the possibility of this proposal. So that is once again a conscious choice of the parents. Mr Doornhof also asked whether better information would not provide a better solution to the problem. This point was raised earlier in the Lower House by Mrs Van Toorenburg, but also in your Chamber by Mrs De Blécourt, Mrs Bezaan and Mr Janssen. I have just referred to it for a very short time: we do not think that more information is an adequate solution. Firstly, more information does not solve legal inequality. It's just gonna last forever. That is a rather fundamental point for us. Secondly, what exactly does more information do? I just referred to the WRR's report: Knowing isn't doing anything yet. More information will not lead to authority for both parents in all situations that lend themselves to it. The Council recommends that the mental burden of people be eased by, for example, simplifying rules. Stress and stress can sometimes help people's capacity to act. A birth is, of course, quite something. I am thinking in particular of people who are less literate or who are not fully powerful in Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u47	I'd still like to ask a question. Mrs Van Ginneken has already mentioned many times that well-known report: Knowing is not yet a thing. I'd take that from everyone, but the organ donor law came from your party. We hired them here, too. That law states, as it were, that you're a donor, unless you object. Then these kinds of points all came back. How do you look at civilians? It was said that they are all self-conscious citizens, and with good information we are all entitled to do so. There are still some legislative proposals, around time-limits and an abortion pill, to name but a few. Then it is: they are all self-conscious, they are all smart people who are aware of everything. If I listen to you carefully, you will now say that the citizens are not so bright. What's the deal with that? You do a very small bit of cherrypicking in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u48	I would like to make a very important distinction between this initiative proposal and the Donor Act. The Donor Act does not involve the importance of a child who needs to be taken into account. That is the case here. So that makes the overall balance of interests ultimately different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u49	That's not the point. The question is: what can citizens learn? What can you do with good information and such? The ease with which you say "no, you shouldn't think about that track," I find, in all kindness, rather weakly substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u50	Thank you. The WRR, of course, has also written the report for this specific context and indicates that in this complex field of family law, too, there is often a lack of capacity. If we find that at the moment, because of the way the laws work and because of the rules that are as they are, it seems that in practice parents cannot adequately represent the interests of their child, then I think that we should help them to do so. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech by answering Mr Doornhof's last question. He asked: is it not better to launch an information campaign if it is not clear whether this bill serves the child's interests? Mr Doornhof's question is based on a premise that we do not support. We would not have been here if we were not convinced that this proposal serves the interests of the child. Many of your questions have just been answered. The interests of the child are our first consideration and we also find support from the ICRC. I stress that this is not only our own interpretation, because the Dutch Association of Family and Inheritance Lawyers Separation mediators I believe I have now pressed a red button in its consultation reaction even said that the current legislation is in conflict with the IVRK. In particular, it states that the current legislation is contrary to Articles 2, 3 and 6. It concerns specifically the prohibition of discrimination, the principle that the child's interest is the first consideration in decisions on the child and the right to life and development. I do not want to say in this debate that the Netherlands is in breach of the ICRC, but that the legislation with this proposal is better aligned with the interests of the child as we know it in the Treaty and our legal order, there is no doubt as far as we are concerned. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt also asked about the formal requirements in the declaration for the mother's principal authority. Is a declaration of consent sufficient, or does the formal requirements contained in the explanatory memorandum still apply, as amended following the opinion of the Council of State? The proposal refers to the fact that the mother and the connoisseur declare that the authority is exercised only by the mother. The explanatory statement shall state the statement to be made to the civil status official. This difference is more common in statements made by parents in family law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u51	Thank you. But then I ask, also because I do not know enough myself: what does "in front" mean? Does that mean being physically present, or can it be with an explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u52	In family law, the practice is that "in front of" is in many other cases physical. I will confirm in the second term whether this automatically means that this is the case in this case. Let me look at the Minister: perhaps this is more on his territory. But we are going to come back to this. I will continue my speech. Mr Dittrich raised the question of whether the initiators were still seeing difficult points which they were unable to settle. We do not see any points that are so difficult that they stand in the way of the introduction of this legislative proposal. I can mention a point that should not be left unmentioned. In the original proposal, the civil servant was given a review role. It would then have to establish whether there is an exception. This would entail a radical change in the role of civil servants. That is why, in the end, it has been chosen that there is simply automatic authority, unless there is an exception. This simplifies the scheme and makes it much more practicable than would have been the case when the original proposal was adopted, as we referred it to the Lower House in November 2016. For example, if there is an exception to this rule, for example, a guardian has already been appointed, the proposal does not provide for the recognition to inform the connoisseur of the fact that he has not obtained authority. This is no different than in other situations where authority could automatically arise. Many of the grounds for exception for the automatic emergence of authority, such as the presence of a guardian, can be found in the register of authority, but not all of the authority information follows from the systems. We would like the civil status official to inform parents of the possible grounds for exception when they are recognised. The Minister for Legal Protection has indicated that civil servants are being instructed on the new rules so that they can inform citizens more clearly about their rights and the new changed situation regarding authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u53	My question to the initiators is: what is expected of the parents when it comes to the exceptions? Should they indicate: we think there is an exception? Or is the ball with the civil servant?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u54	That's a fair question. The civil servant is not able to indicate specifically in that situation what the situation is about obtaining authority, precisely because he does not have access to the register of authorities. The civil servant can only inform in general terms that there are grounds for exception and that parents have to consult each other or that they are involved here. Moreover, access to the register may always be made through the competent professions. Parents can therefore be actively informed about this, but perhaps the Minister can tell us more about exactly how it is implemented. But the bill doesn't regulate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u55	Just thinking out loud: what if the official can't find all that in the register and the parents don't report it, while there is de facto an exception, what is the situation if joint authority is granted, but it turns out that there is an exception, which makes that joint authority legally impossible? How does that work in practice? That may also be a question which the Minister should answer, but perhaps you will also have thoughts on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u56	In practice, therefore, there will be no joint authority, either by his parents or by the assumption that that is the case. As I have just tried to point out, they are not specifically informed about their situation in the register. Maybe there's a guardian here. Maybe the mother does, but she doesn't tell the other parent. Then the other parent is assuming that joint authority has been acquired through the civil servant, but that is de facto not the case. That is why it is also important that the civil servant informs parents of this possibility. That could alert the other parent to the possibility of further investigation. I do not know whether the Minister has any additions to this in his reply. Mr Dittrich also asked whether the initiators expected a major change in practice. I am happy to answer that question in conjunction with Mr Recourt's question as to whether the number of procedures is likely to decrease or increase. In any case, it may be said that it is obvious that the adoption of this proposal will make the lack of parental authority less likely to become the subject of conflict. I indicated this earlier in response to an interruption. This can also have a positive impact on the number of procedures. However, we do not want to lose sight of the fact that having or not having joint authority will not always be the starting point for a conflict. Where parents break up, there will often be disappointment, anger and sadness. Conflicts can happen very easily. However, clarity about authority, by obtaining it on recognition, can prevent the joint authority from becoming part of the conflict and thereby limit the extent of the conflict. In addition, we point out that if there is a divorce in which a parent wants to judge the conflict, there will always be a hook for that. Sometimes, unfortunately, divorces even lead to criminal proceedings, and that is of course not in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u57	I do hear a bit of a reasoning of 'if all other circumstances remain the same'. The question I asked was also specific. When this is automatically linked, will this not lead to a debate about recognition in advance, precisely because the authority is automatically linked to it? The explanation given by the initiators is more or less: if everything stays the same, it will lead to fewer procedures. But I think it could be a source of new procedures, given the link. There's still some doubt in our minds. That is why I specifically asked for it. Can you still go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u58	Thank you to Mr Janssen for this tightening up. If this initiative proposal automatically creates authority in recognition, then the conversation that parents have with each other about this recognition changes, because the implications are much greater. This could be a moment of conflict in practice. The bill provides that exceptions may be requested for one-headed authority, i.e. for recognition, but not for joint authority. So there's that possibility. We have consciously done so to prevent the mother from holding back recognition because, for example, she would not want the other parent to gain joint authority. So in the proposal, we have built in all these options to give both parents different action options when there is friction or conflict at that stage. We believe that this will reduce the risk of conflicts and also the risk of non-recognition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u59	I understand that last part, but I am asking for recognition of the possibility that the conflicts from behind are now being pushed forward because of that automatic coupling. We are now saying: "everything else remains the same, so we don't have those conflicts at the back anymore, because it's already settled at the front." But that is what I said at my first interruption, namely that the rest will remain the same. But something's gonna change. Our great concern is, therefore, that you are now simply getting the procedures first instead of later and that it is not automatically that it is getting further because it is better regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u60	We're running the risk of taking a look at coffee. We're trying to make the best possible assessment of what's going to happen. That's why I appreciate the SP's question. I think one important distinction should be made here. When there is talk about recognition and therefore also about automatic acquisition of authority, this happens in many more cases at a stage of the relationship where there is still harmony between the two parents than when you get that discussion at the end, when the two parents have decided to end their relationship. That gives me good hope that the number of conflicts will be more favourable on balance. But again, we're just watching a little bit of coffee with each other. It is therefore also a good thing that we have agreed to review this law, because then we can determine with each other what the real effect is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u61	Finally. Our work in the First Chamber is of course to look at the feasibility. That's always looking at coffee, because that's never exactly clear. The fact that it is shifted to the front, where it would still take place in good harmony, I find a valid argument. So we will certainly consider that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u63	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u64	Finally, I would like to address a few more questions from Mr Janssen. I noticed in him the same critical and constructive attitude as his colleagues in the House of Representatives. Mr Janssen also asked about the possibility of improving the implementation of the existing regime and asked whether alternatives had been examined. Before we answer that question, it is important to address two problems that the initiators see at the heart. Firstly, there is an unjustified distinction between children of married parents and unmarried parents and between mothers and connoisseurs. Improving current practice through information does not solve this problem. The inequality will then remain. Secondly, there are practical problems. These are, among other things, matters mentioned by Mr Janssen himself in his speech. When conflicts arise and authority is not pre-arranged, parental authority is often involved. I have just indicated this in response to the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u65	I shall keep it brief, especially since Mrs van Ginneken has laid down legal inequality several times so firmly. Of course, equal cases must be treated equally. But it is a fairly factual observation that a marriage or registered partnership, together with all kinds of rights and obligations that are included in the Civil Code, even if there are children in play, is a different greatness from any other conceivable relationship? Do you not, therefore, make that whole point of resolving some kind of legal discrimination very difficult? Isn't one just legally different from the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u66	I share the observation that they are different things and that it is also nice that marriage has a different value and meaning than a form of cooperation that does not have that legal status. But I would also like to stress that this will appeal to the SGP, I think that marriage is about public confession of loyalty and commitment to one another and to the family. Mr Van Wijngaarden will say a little more about this later. I don't want to mow the grass at his feet by going into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u67	Fine. Then I'll probably come back to it myself later. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u68	I'm gonna have to browse. The remaining part of my contribution has just been dealt with adequately after Mr Janssen's interruptions. I would very much like to give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u69	Thank you, Mrs Van Ginneken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u70	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you again to Members for letting me just leave the sitting to attend a vote on another initiative law, which we will soon be discussing in the First Chamber, namely the medical termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u72	We understand from this that the law has been passed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u73	Yeah, he's in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u74	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u75	Thank you. But the heaviest horde is still coming, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u77	But that's not what we're talking about today. We're talking about another beautiful subject today. I shall quickly answer the questions that have been asked to me. I know you have other important debates ahead of you tonight. But now, let's focus on this bill. Mr Van Dijk indicated that he had difficulty in aligning marriage with formalizing the relationship. He points out that the Civil Code clearly states that spouses owe each other loyalty, assistance and assistance and that spouses are obliged to care for and raise children belonging to the family. Let me put my reaction in two parts: firstly, a formal answer and then an answer in which I will speak a little more out of the heart. First of all, every relationship, even though it is not legally established, is to promise each other loyalty, help and assistance. In a relationship where that is not the case, something is wrong. But indeed, the Civil Code doesn't say anything about that. However, agreements can be made in a social contract. With regard to children, parents with authority, regardless of the type of relationship, already have a legal responsibility in the education and care of the child. Each parent has the obligation to provide the child's livelihood. Marriage and registered partnership are therefore not the only forms of relationship that create such obligations. But then the second part of the answer also wants to start immediately. An official of civil status will not stress in the performance of a marriage that it is a civil legal figure. Marriage is something other than a business settlement agreement. This is partly in the content of that commitment, but especially in the reason why people enter into this agreement with each other. Two people fall in love with each other and want to make that special commitment with each other. That's a very intimate thing. People become related to each other, love each other. The beauty of this is not in the legal dimension to which we confine ourselves today in this family-law exercise to a certain extent, but in the meaning that we give social and cultural marriage. It is, of course, true that liberals, like the initiators, have a different vision than the currents to which Mr Van Dijk belongs. The initiators like to see people themselves have options in how to organise their relationship, with or without children. Mr Van Dijk sees the Biblical marriage as the appropriate form.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u78	I thought it was such a good line that I thought: I'm waiting for more to follow. Thanks. Still, I feel like we're talking a little bit past each other. I fully agree with what you say about the principles of principle. I don't want to be foggy about that. My factual point is above all: with a registered partnership or a marriage, the parents concerned indicate to the public that they are striving for a lasting relationship. That's not just a given in those other relationships. Is it then discrimination to ask them to give a little more clarity about the intention to achieve a lasting relationship and possibly also a lasting educational relationship, in order to obtain parental authority? My point is, isn't that necessarily discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u79	Of course, I have not so much taken the word 'discrimination' in my mouth. The point is that we look at the fact that there are people who are entering into a relationship with each other. There are different forms for this. Marriage is one of them. You can prefer it for any reason, but there are other forms of it. In addition, we have the fact that two people can decide to have a child. Having a child can be both within marriage and outside marriage. As initiators, we believe that it is a good idea to create a legally equivalent position for both married and unmarried people who have a child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u80	One last time. I don't know how to say it more clearly. By means of a marriage or registered partnership, the stakeholders indicate the public: we go sustainable for each other and also for any children. The Civil Code hangs there a number of rights and obligations to et cetera. That fact doesn't just apply to all other relationships. There can be very good intentions behind it, maybe there is more love than there is with others. All of that will be fine, but at least that is not clear to society. Then what exactly is the point of asking them to make that intention even clearer, for example by applying for parental authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u81	I'm afraid I'm going to have to repeat a little bit. I refer to the answer I just gave. As initiators, we consider it to be in the best interests of the child that parents have an equal position, both married and unmarried. That's the standard figure, the main figure we choose. That is what we are trying to do with this initiative proposal. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the consequences for the law of names. In reply to Mr Dittrich's question on the implications for the law of names, it must be said that the bill has no implications for the law of names. If a child arises from recognition in a family relationship with the father, it shall keep the mother's gender name, unless the mother and the connoisseur jointly declare, on the occasion of recognition, that the child will have the gender name of the father. This declaration shall be mentioned in the instrument of recognition. Such a declaration of the name of the parents may be made only in respect of the sex name of the first child. Next children of the same parents have the same gender name as the first child. That is also the main legal rule now. The proposed link between recognition and authority thus has no impact on the right of names. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked whether it would not be logical for the mother to have the authority regardless of age. In response to that question, proposers should stress that the proposal does not make any changes to the current situation for underage mothers. The rules on when authority enters are therefore outside today's discussion. A separate debate on this would be more appropriate. In any case, there is no reason why the current system should be revised. Nor has the State Committee recommended making major adjustments to this aspect of family law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u82	Obviously. You are actually saying that it is outside the debate. If you have an opinion... You have studied this matter very carefully. When I was preparing, I thought: hey, this is quite a point; it's quite separate. Wouldn't it make sense for a minor mother to automatically receive parental authority in view of her situation? But you explicitly didn't consider or look at that? That's how I understand it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u83	In fact, I would like to exercise the necessary restraint here, also in view of the carefulness of the debate. After all, we are not only here as members of Van Ginneken and Van Wijngaarden, but also as representatives from the Lower House. Although I think that a discussion about the age of authority can be valuable, after all, the state committee has said a few things about it. That's this bill. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of the State Committee, Mr Recourt asked why the opinion of the State Committee on Parenthood had not yet been followed. Mr Doornhof also drew attention to the state committee. In response to this, I would like to say that initiators make a different assessment than the State Committee. However, they fully agree with the principle of the State Committee that authority should be a conscious choice. However, the State Committee states that it cannot be assumed that parents without a marriage or registered partnership actually take up education and care together. That links the state committee to the freedom of people to shape their lives as they see fit. The initiators share these two principles: authority as conscious choice and freedom of choice. The conscious choice of recognition will be the conscious choice of recognition and authority with our legislative proposal. Parents may also choose not to create joint authority in the present proposal. In this sense, the principles are in line with each other. The State Committee did not deal directly with the legislative proposal and the exceptions. Finally, in response to Mr Recourt, I would like to point out that time has not stopped. Following the publication of the report of the State Committee, the association of family lawyers and divorce mediators voted in favour of this bill. That was also raised today by Mr Dittrich. I would also point out that former member of the State Commission Professor André Nuytinck expressed the hope that this bill would enter into force as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention the contribution on behalf of the PVV Group. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Bezaan of the PVV for her contribution. She made a clear plea for the need for our bill. In her view, joint authority should be the starting point, because it is in the best interests of the child. This is indeed the core of what it is the initiators to do. I am glad that this resonates with the PVV group. Mrs Bezaan also pointed out that more and more children are born outside of marriage. That's right. That has been mentioned a number of times today. This fact underlines that this legislative proposal is not merely a principle exercise on equal rights as far as the initiators are concerned. It also has a strong practical added value. If this proposal becomes law, we will bring family law more into line with today's family with an important change. Thank you, therefore, to Mrs Bezaan for emphasising this once again. Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have now answered all the first-term questions. I would therefore like to mention once again what we want to achieve with this bill. The main aim of this proposal is to eliminate an unjustified distinction between children of married parents and children of unmarried parents. The fact that recognition and authority are not linked now leads to problems in practice. Children and parents are the victims of this. It can lead to lawsuits and sometimes even more annoying problems. Family law is always on the move and always subject of discussion. Social changes resonate in the establishment of family law. The proposal before us today is another example of this. 75,000 children per year are born without parents being married or registered partners. Most first-born children are born out of such a relationship. The way in which a relationship is formalized should not be decisive for a child's claims. Parental authority includes the duty of education and care. The State has an obligation under the Treaty to make efforts to recognise the principle that both parents have joint responsibility for the education and development of the child. That's in the best interests of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some of you have welcomed me. Thank you for those words of welcome. Mr. Chairman. Like my predecessor in the House of Representatives, I would like to pay tribute in this House to both initiators for all the work you and your predecessors have done in recent years. The government supports the improvements envisaged by the initiators in relation to the current legislation. It has long been the starting point of the cabinet that it is in the best interests of the child that parents are both closely involved in the care and education of the children as much as possible and that they make the important decisions about their child together. It is also appropriate that they exercise joint authority over their children. That was the starting point of the Promotion Act continued parenthood and careful separation which entered into force today, exactly thirteen years and a week ago, and that is the starting point of today's proposal. The facts have been mentioned before. In the meantime, around 75,000 of the approximately 170,000 children are born out of marriage or registered partnership each year. Unmarried parents now sometimes experience a confusing threshold to regulate joint authority. Family law must fit as much as possible into society. Where family life changes within society, it is reason for the legislator to ensure that family law changes with it. In this way, the right can continue to offer equal protection to all children. It is therefore important that the emergence of joint authority be organised as easily as possible. It is appropriate that a distinction should no longer be made as to the acquisition of authority between children born within or outside the marriage or registered partnership. The bill can prevent problems in practice about authority. After all, when parents break up and have not previously settled the joint authority, getting the joint authority can become part of the struggle between ex-partners. It is therefore important for parents to be well informed about the origin of parenthood and to obtain, if the choice lies there, joint authority. Information also remains of great importance with the new regime. Many of you have pointed this out. Parents should be aware of the result of joint authority in recognition. I will deal with this later. I would therefore like to say once again that the existing information on authority will be improved and extended wherever possible. The proposal we are discussing this evening also responds to previous reservations raised by the cabinet about the linking of joint authority to recognition. I call them. One. The introduction of the mother's choice and the recognition by authority can lead to recognition without joint authority. Two. The granting of automatic authority also does not apply in the case of recognition by a court of a replacement authorisation. This eliminates the risk that the court would refuse such authorisation only in order to prevent the case of joint authority. The linking of joint authority to recognition should therefore not prevent the emergence of legal parenthood through recognition. The cabinet is therefore, taking into account everything, positive about the bill. Mr President, I now turn to the questions that Members have put to the government. A question from Mr Dittrich was: how does the civil servant know what to test? Civil status officials shall be informed of the adjustments in advance of the entry into force of the legislative proposal. In any case, I should like to congratulate both initiators for having actively communicated, heard improvements and applied them to all those involved in this issue. The NVVB, the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, which has been mentioned before, is also very actively involved. We ourselves will, in specialist journals and in webinars likely to be visited by about 400 civil servants, but also in a two-day congress, after your Chamber has agreed to this proposal, explicitly and actively launch the information to ensure that the information is well maintained. The role of civil status officials is to inform parents of the possibility of making a declaration to prevent the emergence of joint authority. The proposal expressly does not provide for a test, which was also mentioned by the initiators by the civil servant. The civil servant, abbreviated as abs, shall record, record and execute. His role, his core task is always to look purely at the parents, at the people who come to report and to inform and point them out. His job is to see if they're who they say they are, and to see if they're willing. Those elements need to be looked at. I can go into that in more detail. There was just some discourse about the following. Suppose there's a father who wants to arrange the recognition. The only way to do that is with a consent from the mother. Let me be clear about that. If a father wants recognition and a name clause, then the mother must always be physically present at both choices. That's important. I'll give you that. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP asked the question: does the current law satisfy the situation of teenage mothers and what are the consequences of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u86	I would like to go back to the answer given by the Minister to my questions about the civil status. I hear the Minister say 'the father', but that could be the duo mom, so to speak, just for the sake of clarity. But my question is more like this. The civil servant sees two parents in front of him. He has access to the register, but he can't see everything. Now suppose there is a ground for obstruction, an exception, as set out in Article 251b, and the parents do not say so. So the official can't see it. My question is: what is the legal situation? Do they think they have joint authority? Will it be withdrawn afterwards or will such a situation never arise? Can the Minister clarify that a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u87	If I follow Mr Dittrich well, he says: let's say that parents are sitting there, reporting and failing to admit that there is a guardian. At that moment, therefore, information is really being withheld and the declaration that is being made is not correct. At that time, everything will of course be automatically reversed. It must be in accordance with the truth and the law. I'll go into that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u88	The Minister also answered my question to the initiators about the explanation of the mother's principal authority. I understand the Minister very well. He says: no notarial act, no form-free statement, but simply presence with the civil servant. Did I understand him correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u89	That's correct, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u90	Maybe it's a silly question, but that aside. You also marry in front of a civil servant, but you can do that with the glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u91	That's another law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u92	That's a different law, but it's about explaining the same concept. It shall be done in front of an official of civil status. That was the only thing that got me a little confused about whether there was a back door after all. Again, this may be a bit of a lame question, but if you can get it all shut down, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u93	I'm gonna make an attempt to shut it down. To the extent that I have been given that information, only a written declaration is required for recognition. But if one wants more, a designation et cetera, then physical presence is required. If this isn't the case, then I know I'm gonna be corrected in a minute. I shall come back to that in the second term. But in this case, it's a physical presence, not a glove, Mr. Recourt. Mr Van Dijk asked: does the law satisfy the situation of teenage mothers and what are the consequences of this bill? I am well aware that this has just been addressed by the initiators. That was in line with the answer I wanted to give to your question. Perhaps for the sake of clarity, this proposal does not create joint authority as long as the mother is still a minor. If no guardian has been appointed before her age, her authority shall automatically arise when she reaches the age of majority. If the child is recognized, then there is also joint authority, in that order. An underage mother is still under her own authority. It is therefore logical that she cannot automatically carry the authority over a child. A mother may ask from the age of 16 to be declared an adult in order to carry the authority over her child. She'll have to go to the judge for that. There is purely a judicial test. That judicial test serves the protection of both mother and child.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u94	Very briefly, because I hope to get back to it in the second term. This is indeed the current situation. We can talk about parental authority, but now we run into saying: hey, a minor mother! Isn't it a kind of natural right that the mother, whether she's a minor or an adult, at least has parental authority over her child? Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u95	I share the view that the mother is extremely important to the child. But I am also aware of the following. Excuse the choice of words I'm about to use: if a child throws a child, will the child be able to raise the other child? The best interests of the child are paramount. I express the confidence that we will find each other in that. Then I'm just gonna see how the authority is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u96	One last time. It would be worth looking at that point anyway. I understand your point. There are certainly cases in which it is not wise, but I would like to point out very briefly the situation which also occurs, namely that a mature father, whom there is a great deal to be said, does have the authority but does not have the mother in question. Shouldn't the rule be that a mother, even if she's a minor, at least has parental authority, unless?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u97	I still believe that a mother should have the authority and that the father can then also have the authority; in that order, even though the father is 18 and the mother 16. Mr Dittrich asked what the consequences of the recognition of the right to name were. That has already been addressed by the initiator. I will not repeat, otherwise I am a record that lingers in the groove. Mr Dittrich asked from the discourse that we have just conducted: what is the situation if it turns out that there is an exception, but the parents do not appeal to it? How would that work in practice? The joint authority shall act automatically. The exceptions, such as the appointment of a guardian, are therefore not used in my example. If that guardian is there, then there is no joint authority. As a result, the child's authority situation in some cases cannot be directly clear to parents. This is no different from other situations where joint authority arises, such as within marriage. That is my answer to the question. I would now like to address the issues of implementation and information. I was asked a question which also came back in the discussion with the initiators, namely whether I see practical problems in implementing the scheme. Recognition of the child with the civil status official shall be free of charge. The choice of one-headed authority, the mother, on recognition is also free of charge. The government does not currently foresee any practical implementation problems, also on the basis of the reactions of civil servants to the bill. Some of you have pointed out to me that after five years I am evaluating the bill. That is what I intend to do. I do not need to look at affordability, because it is free of charge, but I am looking at the feasibility, which is important, and accessibility. I also look at the volume of the number of recognitions. What are we talking about? Measuring is knowing. I want those facts, and I will share them with you in due course. Mr Recourt asked whether the cabinet recognized the difficulty of reading the register of authorities being complicated for those who consulted the register. He asked me what my solution was. Documents relating to minor children, such as judicial decisions and the "joint authority" endorsement, shall be entered in the register of custody. The registry of authority shall be public. The authority which arises automatically shall not be registered in the register and shall be deduced. This applies, therefore, to the authority of law by recognition, but also to the authority of law of married and registered parents. Mr. Chairman. With Mr Recourt I agree and agree with the importance of being able to derive from the situation of authority. So I started with a project improving unlocking authority information. It explores how the distraction of authority can be improved. We also have a few pilots running right now. If your Chamber takes a positive decision on this bill, we intend to implement it. Otherwise, I'm gonna measure that in care and safety. Then I'm going to see how that system of distraction works in practice and whether it works. Then I'm not gonna wait five years. Then after a period of six months I want to know whether it works and whether it works, yes or no, or whether there are any adjustments needed. That is a short period of time, but I expect that I will have enough practical information. My request is, therefore, to give me the opportunity to carry out this practical test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u98	Good to hear that this is already under the attention and that that pilot is going to run. Can the Minister inform us about the outcome of the pilot, in particular about his conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u99	Of course I will, with pleasure. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked another question about early information of parents and acceptance of authority after recognition. The question was put by you, Mrs De Blécourt, and by Mr Dittrich. I will develop targeted information material for the parents. For example, I will explicitly offer this in midwifery practices. After the law has been passed, this will be done with haste, so that future parents will have access to that information before the law enters into force. I will also make the information available on the website. Within the time frame I have just mentioned, we will also offer a hand-out together with the municipalities and umbrella organisations, the government but also the justice system. We will also explicitly take with us civil servants, their knowledge, their skills, so that they understand what we are talking about here. Information is important. The essence of the question I heard from you is: do not do so when parents report the recognition, but do so ahead; do not wait. I hope that my answer is clear: that I am doing and-and doing. Mr. Chairman. I've gone over the evaluation. Questions have been asked about social law in family law cases. That's the next topic I want to discuss. Questions have also been asked about the system of subsidised legal aid. I would like to go into that in more detail. The coalition agreement includes the structural commitment of the cabinet to strengthening social lawyers, including those in family law. An additional 154 million has been earmarked for this purpose. This is structurally available from 2022 and following years. With effect from 1 January 2022, fees for lawyers, including social lawyers, mediators and special curators, have been improved. This is all in line with scenario 1 of the Van der Meer Committee, which has looked at the system and made recommendations. This has resulted in better compensation for legal aid providers working in the system, in anticipation of the entry into force of the new system of legal aid. I keep in mind that fees should continue to be appropriate in the future. I am very much looking at this in the revision of the system. I think it is too important that people can find access to justice at any time. I have also been asked about the possible consequences for justice and legal aid. I can, of course, give the answer that the Council has given to the case law on this: it does not expect any substantial consequences. At the same time, I expect that the number of requests for joint authority may decrease, but at the same time I also realize that there is a possibility that the number of requests for single authority will increase. In this way I may come to a law of communicating vessels, but I have just used all the adage "measuring is knowing." I would also like to follow the practice here and, on that basis, take positions on this issue. The final question was asked by Senator Dittrich and dealt with the imbalance in the position of parents in legal aid. You are touching a theme that is much broader than just this subject and the 'quality of arms' debate, I would almost put it. The justice system, the legal profession and the ministry where I may be active, use the Separation programme to prevent divorces and unnecessary procedures. How do we do that? By early aid before conflicts get out of hand. Of course, justice seekers are only eligible for subsidised legal aid on the basis of income and capital requirements. You are aware of this; the Legal Aid Act plays a role in this. I cannot deny that there can be inequality. That is a broad discussion that has my attention, to look purely: how do I deal with it? I don't have a full answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u100	I thank the Minister for his reply. My only question then is: what is the perspective? Can the First and Second Chambers expect a letter or an appreciation from the Minister of how we are going to solve this problem from the practical point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u101	I've already gotten the problem wider. It's a point of attention to me. How to deal with this is a matter of concern to me, too. I would like to include the First Chamber and, of course, the House of Representatives. So in the long run, you can certainly expect a letter from me about what my thoughts are going to be about, precisely to make access to justice wider for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u102	That is a very nice answer from the Minister. Do you have any time indications? Of course, it doesn't hang in a month. Can we expect that for the summer or this calendar year?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u103	Mr. Dittrich gives me a lot of space, but I'm going to do my utmost to give an indication of how I look at this before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u105	That was the last question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u106	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party and also on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u107	Yes, Mr President, again on behalf of those two groups. That is a great honor, because I can advise them to vote in favour of this bill later. Both groups, I have not had the opportunity to do so before. The answers were good, but I would like to start with a more general approach, namely the freedom to organise your life as you wish, as long as you do not harm the interests of others. That is also true, and perhaps in particular, when it comes to bonding to a partner or the way in which you want to raise your children in a legal framework. It is therefore very good that the law is brought to the right time. It is fine if you enter into a traditional marriage, but it is also fine if you want to organise an alternative form. I say to Mr Van Wijngaarden: it is even good if you do not want to be faithful to that. I heard you say that a relationship without fidelity is wrong. Not even that, I think, but that aside. I am therefore very much in favour of this law, which regulates this freedom with the equalization of that authority for children born inside and outside marriage. But there is a critical side to it. That's what's on the element, as long as it doesn't harm the interests of others. In this case, of course, children's interests are particularly important, because they are not supposed to be able to defend their own interests. That is precisely what authority is meant for. So that was also the context of my questions. Once upon a time, you see in family law that third-party interests are disguised as children's interests. I think we should be critical of that. Co-parenting is not in all cases best for the children. Legal rights of grandparents, for example, are not in all cases in the interests of children. I am therefore generally critical of this. But in this case, it has been well answered. My care has been taken away. I sincerely believe that this is in the best interests of the children. The main reason for this is that there is also the possibility of marital abuse of joint authority. Nor am I going to argue for the abolition of joint authority standing marriage. In fact, it is a very good thing that both parents can defend their child's interests and should do so in consultation. That's good for the kid. I'm happy with the pilot for the authority register. I welcome the answers on how things are now in practice with that statement of single parenting by the mother. So all my questions have been answered neatly. I see I have time left, but I won't complete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u108	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u109	I'm just done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u110	We'd like to take that time back. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see I've even been allocated four minutes. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister for Legal Protection. I wouldn't have done that in the first term. The great advantage of doing so in second term is that I have been able to hear the Minister and his answers. I'm very happy about that. In particular, I welcome the last commitment made by the Minister in the broader framework of funded legal aid and how legal aid can be provided to individuals. I also mention the Minister's commitment to send a letter to the Upper House before the summer. So I am very pleased with that. From this point on, on behalf of the D66 Group, I congratulate the Minister for having been given this fine position. Now to the initiators. Thank you very much for the answers. I had some questions. They've all been answered. I'm happy with the answers. It's perfectly clear to me. I'm not trying to talk my time through it either. Then there is nothing left for me but to thank the initiators for their initiative. In practice, I think it's really an important bill for many parents that becomes law. I will advise the D66 Group to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u112	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Mr Doornhof has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a debate so far in which we have had a respectful exchange of views on this bill. I was also rather impressed by the view expressed by Mr Van Wijngaarden on relations. In between, he said: yes, as a married couple, you don't often get to hear from the civil servant what all the civil effects of that marriage are. I won't be the only one who's ever been married. I can assure you that when I stand there as a civil servant, the bridal couple will have those effects, including the authority you obtain for children born within the marriage. For this reason, too, I raised the question in my first term: can't you expect parents to take those effects into account when deciding whether or not to choose a marriage or registered partnership to formalize their relationship? Where the initiators talked about the alternative to the bill, the advice was somewhat downplayed. I think we'll share the problem signal. Maybe I should put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u114	I let it work on me for a while. Did a bride and groom ever say, as a civil servant, that civil effect to that bride and groom, well, never mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u115	I don't know if you've ever had the honour, but before that, you have a preliminary interview. Then you can take a little more of the chance to show me what you know about the marital state. Sometimes people say: so if you have children, you don't have to do anything anymore and then you would have a problem if you didn't get married. I'll say yes in full. You may contradict me, but I can imagine that you are aware of that and that this might be an additional reason to opt for a lasting relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u116	Of course, good information must be provided, but it does not matter whether it is for a married couple or for an unmarried couple. Don't you want to tell people about their responsibilities when children come? So I don't understand the distinction in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u117	We are, of course, talking about how to solve a problem we face, namely that we are in a situation where parents do not want to live and where the spokesmen run. Then it's not clear what's going on with the authority after that recognition. First of all, you avoid marrying someone. I have also shown great understanding of the situation in which you have not chosen marriage and in which you are in a situation that you have to deal with life's happiness, children and so on, but where you more or less forget, even after recognition, to regulate authority. The question is, how are you going to deal with that problem? Then I come to the continuation of my second term. We have had a big debate on the question: is this the best solution? Doesn't this end up getting worse for a child than in the situation we're in right now? Because the child's best interests are at the top of this. At that time, I denounced, also in line with what the Advisory Section has put forward: could you not come up with much better advice? I was just saying, and then Mr Recourt's interruption came: couldn't you focus on that information? I will not say that the initiators are reluctant to do so, but at least they do not see any solution. I was kind of happy with the Minister's answer. He said: if this bill is adopted, I have to go to the farmer to show: people, if you choose recognition, know that the authority will be brought in immediately. It is very good that this is going to happen, but it also shows the need for information. This information must also work, because it is not good for parents to find themselves in situations where their intention is not to gain authority with recognition. If you have read the written answers of the initiators and have listened to the reply of the minister before, then you must come to the conclusion that information can and must work. Should we not say: that is a better solution than what is before us? We're talking about the state committee and "conscious choice." We are talking about the effects in a substantive and procedural sense, but we do not know. A great deal is being put off on the evaluation. Then I keep thinking: are we not wrong with this proposal as a solution to the problem that we recognise, namely that uncertainty in situations where no one has been aware that authority has not been properly established? Mr President, I will conclude. Mr Recourt allowed himself the freedom to advise the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to also make the choice of his group. I'm a little more careful. I am going to advise the CDA Group to vote against the proposal. I will report to the Christian Union Group on the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u119	Mr. Chairman. Also thanks from the PVV for the answer. Thank you in particular for the words of Mr Van Wijngaarden. This law aligns the position of children born outside the marriage/registered partnership with that of children born within the marriage/registered partnership. Parents are thus automatically given joint authority. The mother and the connoisseur can declare that the mother has sole authority and then parenthood arises without joint authority. The court may, if necessary, grant replacement authorisation for recognition without this leading to automatic acquisition of joint authority. So, if I understand correctly, the position of the mother is always stronger than the position of the connoisseur. What about mothers who don't want or aren't allowed to have authority? And what about the position of the connoisseur? I am particularly curious to hear the answer to that last question. I hope I can get an answer to that. However, I will say that I will give a positive opinion to the PVV Group on this proposal, with all due respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u120	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u121	Mr. Chairman. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, this proposal for an initiative is better suited to the modern times in which we live. It leads to equality of babies born in and out of marriage. I welcome the answers from the initiators and the Minister's answers on sound information. I will advise my group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u122	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the authors and the Minister for the reply we have received. Mr. Chairman. I said it in the first term and I repeat it in the second term: in view of the child's interests, this bill has something sympathetic. After all, the child cannot choose the circumstances under which it is born and yet it remains equally entitled to education and care of both parents. From that perspective, it is not necessarily illogical to reconcile the legal treatment of married and unmarried parents. But does this bill really solve an existing problem? There has certainly been a necessary exchange of views on this issue in the necessary interruptions by colleagues. Or are we creating new problems? In most cases, children born outside marriage are simply recognized, without any problem. Parents are also, by definition, financially responsible for their children, regardless of recognition or authority. The question therefore remains relevant as to whether, in the current situation, sufficient justice is being given to, for example, the ICRC. In any event, the SGP does not take into account the fact that this resolves legal inequality between parents. A married couple and an unmarried couple are two different sizes. In the first case, there is a certain social clarity about the nature and intention of the relationship between parents. In the second case, they are less clear. It is not discrimination if unmarried parents need to give a little more clarity about the intention to establish a sustainable educational relationship. Raising children is a joint exercise and therefore a shared responsibility. In the case of a marriage or registered partnership, the acceptance of this responsibility is a fact. That is not so much the case outside as it is less clear. Mr. Chairman. It has been on for a while: the issue of teenage mothers. That is a point that I and the SGP Group have not yet let go of. To keep the point warm, I have a modest motion on this. The: Mr Van Dijk and Mr Schalk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Van Ginneken/Van Wijngaarden initiative proposal on the automatic creation of joint authority through recognition does not address the legal and practical difficulties of minor parents;]] [[Whereas the current legislation does not allow a teenage mother to have parental authority over her child and that the alternative to the adult declaration is not simple and has a price tag;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for legislation to create additional problems for teenage mothers in a vulnerable position and that teenage mothers should not be placed in an unequal position in relation to the adult father in an unwanted pregnancy;]] [[calls on the Government to reflect on whether the current legislation still complies with the above-mentioned provisions and to work out how and under what guarantees teenage mothers can automatically receive the authority over their child,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34605-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u124	I still have one more question. This looks like a bit of a Drosteblik. That teenage mother is still under the authority of her parents. Then you get the crazy situation that the mother who cannot yet represent herself in law can represent her child. However, this seems to be the wish of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u125	Yes. I formulated it as "almost a piece of natural law." The mother should be the first to have the authority over her child. I would be very upset if such a underage teenage mother were to be placed in an unequal position with regard to that perhaps very irresponsible adult father. I am not saying that it should all be done this way, but my question is whether the way we have it now is entirely satisfactory and whether it is conceivable to consider under all possible safeguards whether teenage mothers could automatically receive the authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u126	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the initiators and the minister for the answers. I'll take the points in reverse. I find the motion that has just been tabled a little complicated. We should not make every legislative proposal a motion on a point that has not been addressed in the legislative proposal. I find it extremely complicated to assess the motion, because I do not think it is appropriate for this bill. It's my concern that we're all gonna do that. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the Minister's reply on social law. He talked about the structural strengthening of social law, including personal and family law. I like that statement. It still depends on what goes then, but I think it is good that it is so explicitly mentioned that fees should remain appropriate. This applies in particular to personal and family law, precisely because it also concerns children, who, however you turn or turn, are dependent on a well-functioning legal system. They're indirectly party, but they're not a trial party. There must be no obstacle there, so that children's lives are not affected in a negative way. I therefore welcome the statement made by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I have no further questions to the initiators. Mrs Van Ginneken mentioned, among other things, the amendment tabled by my colleague Jan de Wit in the House of Representatives. Then I'm going back to June 2007. Then the amendment was tabled and adopted. That was a few months after I started working for Jan de Wit in the Lower House. My colleague Michiel van Nispen, who made the bill in the Lower House, also started at about the same time. Which brings us back in time again, towards 2007. Let me put it this way. Nine Kooiman, a valued colleague, was also mentioned. So there's some SP history in this tradition. One name I don't want to leave unmentioned is Nanneke Quik-Schuijt's. When it comes to the interests of the child, and it can be considered differently, I am thinking not only of the family situation, but also of the discussion that Jan de Wit, Nanneke Quik-Schuijt, Michiel van Nispen and myself have had about the importance of the child. In the end, it all worked out, because, when the bill was passed here in 2008, Nanneke Quik-Schuijt gave an explanation of vote. That was about the law promoting continued parenthood, for clarity. She did have some reservations about this, but I quote: 'For the sake of law, the legal definition of equal parenthood is a good conclusion to the vision of parenthood after divorce which has developed in this direction since 1984'. The SP Group voted in favour, including Nanneke Quik-Schuijt. In that tradition, I would almost say, I will advise my group to vote in favour of the proposal in this continuation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u128	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Mrs Van Ginneken, Mr Van Wijngaarden, Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber or would you like a short suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u129	A brief ten-minute suspension, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u130	Ten minutes. Then I'll suspend until 7:55.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u131	I give the floor to Mrs Van Ginneken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u132	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Members for their input. Thank you for the support that has already been expressed, and I fully understand those who still have to think about it. At least I'm very happy. I look back on a nice substantive debate; I like that. We've paid a lot of attention to the importance of the child. I also think that this is appropriate, because this has also been the motivation for us as initiators to table this bill. I heard you say we have a shared problem analysis. I think that's right. I would like to say a few words about information on this point. I tasted in the exchange a little that the image had emerged that we as initiators do not think information is so important. I would therefore like to apologize for this, because that is absolutely not the picture that we have wanted to raise. Information is incredibly important. The Minister's contribution also emphasized this and made it clear how this could be implemented. Our main plea was that information alone is not sufficient to serve the child's interests. We prefer an equal position between the two parents combined with information rather than just trusting information. I just wanted to say that for a moment. I leave the remaining questions to my colleague Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u133	Thank you, Mrs Van Ginneken. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with Mrs Bezaan's question from the PVV Group. What if the mother doesn't want authority over the child? Because that situation is not unthinkable. The father can then apply for a principal authority through the judge. The mother may also have a guardian appointed. There are situations that can be very sad situations that could be mentioned. So that's what that question is about. Mr. Chairman. In response to Mr Recourt on the element of loyalty in relationships, I say the following before I become an archconservative in the history of law. I meant not so much the classical marriage wedding, but rather loyalty to the agreements you have made about this with each other. People are ultimately free to enter the relationship as they wish. As initiators, of course, we have also argued that this is the most important thing. Children can be born in a marriage, but also out there. People must be free to do so as they wish. So that's just to avoid any misunderstandings. Finally, allow me to thank Members through you for their valuable and substantive contribution to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u135	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Senator Dittrich asked me a question about the exceptions. That is more than right, because it is a very essential and important part. Since I think it is such an important question, I would like to inform your Chamber in writing before the summer recess on the grounds of exception, on how exactly this is done and on how we apply it. That's one. You expect me to appreciate the motion with letter G, but not after I have expressly stated the following. The compliments to the two initiators on the initiative proposal have already been made, but I would also like to thank your Chamber for the reflection you have given and the questions you have asked. Then, with regard to the motion on the table, the motion with letter G of the Member Van Dijk. I'm going to dissuade the motion. My argument is: a child himself is under authority. A child takes care of a child. It's being taken care of. However, in the Netherlands we have a very careful procedure through the Children's Protection Board, through the courts. If the mother is 16 years old, she may as such be placed in adult parental authority. There is that possibility. I would like to inform your Chamber in writing, but my position is and remains that I strongly advise against this motion. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u137	Thank you, Minister. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u138	It is not entirely satisfactory, but I understand that the Minister is coming up with a further response. Anyway, I appreciate that. I'd like to look forward to that letter. The letter may, if it so wishes, give rise to a follow-up in our committee. Let's check it out. So thank you for that commitment. I'll wait for the letter. For the moment, I withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u139	Mr. Van Dijk, will you hold the motion or withdraw her?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u140	I'm moving her in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u141	You're moving her in. That means that Mr Van Dijk and others have tabled a motion No 34605, letter G. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early vote. Is that correct, Mr. Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u142	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u143	Since the motion-Van Dijk c.s. (' point ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-03-15-eerstekamer-11.u144	I come to deal with bill 34605, proposal of law of members Van Ginneken and Van Wijngaarden to amend Book 1 of the Civil Code and the Basic Registration Persons Act in connection with the automatic creation of joint authority by recognition. I propose that we vote on the initiative proposal next week.
