ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the debate on the Dutch draft plan for the corona recovery fund. I would like to welcome the Finance Minister, the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate in a different way. I would like to meet with Members four questions and/or comments to each other and also four to the ruler. There has been a lot of talk on this subject. So if we can keep it short and concise tonight, we can also finish tonight with each other. I would like to appeal to you. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Together, as Europe invests ourselves in the crisis towards a sustainable digital and social European future, as Member States of the European Union move towards each other through the necessary reforms and investments rather than away from each other, at a time when our unity and solidarity from outside and from within are being tested, by restoring and increasing the security of life of people and sectors affected by the corona crisis. That is at the heart of the Recovery Fund that we are debating today. Mr. Chairman. Our cabinet had the opportunity to talk widely about this first concept recovery plan and to touch it in society where recovery is most needed, and how, with as many people and sectors as possible, with the groups that have felt the most pain and with organizations that have the most innovative ideas. Not even from above with a small group decide where the money is going, but in conversation with social partners, local authorities and civil society organisations, in the spirit of how the Recovery Fund was originally intended. Mr. Chairman. I therefore hope that the Minister can explain in her term how parties such as local authorities, provinces and municipalities, civil society organisations, the FNV and the cultural and creative sector can say: we have not really been discussed, we have stood close to the door. How is that possible, especially after last year's motion which the House has just been asked to discuss with these organizations? We would like to clarify which companies and organisations have been at the table and what discussions have led to the plans as they are now. Is the Minister prepared to clarify this by means of a lobby paragraph? Is the Minister prepared to make the money flows from the Restoration Fund publicly visible and therefore also verifiable? In other words, which companies and organisations ultimately implement the cabinet's plans with the help of the European billions? Mr. Chairman. I am asking this not only from the point of view of transparency, but also because I see that the major industry in particular seems to benefit, for example by allocating more than 2 billion to plans for wind at sea and hydrogen. Of course, these are important projects for the transition, but the money goes to the big industry with this. Can this money also be used for SMEs and for families suffering from energy poverty? They are the ones who have been hit the hardest by that coronapandemic. Where is the 2% for the cultural and creative sector advocated by the European Parliament and supported by many parties here in the House of Representatives in the European Parliament? That sector was on its last legs even before the corona crisis. Can the Minister guarantee that this plan will pass the so-called "gender test"? In other words, does this plan really contribute to gender equality? Mr. Chairman. Our cabinet seems to use the recovery money mainly to finance plans from the coalition agreement. There is also talk of an accounting trick of the cabinet. And about the desired reforms, we were rightly very strict towards the southern countries, but we do not read about the abolition of the mortgage interest rate deduction at all. What were the considerations in the decision not to include them in the recommendations? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. As far as Volt is concerned, therefore, the focus of the Recovery Fund is also partly shifted. Reserve 2% for the cultural and creative sectors. Come up with projects to train the necessary climate and digitization specialists. And spend more money on the innovation of poorly insulated houses, reducing the energy costs of households with the smallest wallet. This has also been done in other countries, such as Belgium and Austria. But also give space to the creative ideas that live in the different layers of society. Mr. Chairman. Finally. Volt hopes that the cabinet will work on the opportunity to live up to the ambition for a Dutch leading role in Europe. This includes an ambitious and transparent recovery plan, drawn up in consultation with society, full of creative ideas and focused on those groups that most need the recovery: SMEs, the cultural and creative sectors, and women. That's what the Recovery Fund is for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u4	If it's a conversation, it should be possible. Mr. Chairman. My group has been and still is very much in favour of the Corona Restoration and Resilience Fund. This is also from the point of view of the necessary convergence to be achieved between the north and the south of Europe. When I look at all the projects that have been identified, I see that they are all quite meaningful projects. Nevertheless, my input today will be critical. This is really about the process that has been followed. The Netherlands had a very big pair of pants on when it came to this Recovery Fund. The Netherlands demanded reforms, demanded new plans. And now the Netherlands, the only one of the Member States, has not yet submitted a plan. The last Member State outside the Netherlands to do so was Bulgaria. That country submitted the plan six months ago. Are we still credible in our attitude that we have chosen? We take the measure of others and expect all kinds of things from others, but we ourselves simply fail to submit a plan in time. In the letter of the Chamber on what has now been conceived, each time it is emphasised that the cabinet is looking forward to the discussion with the Chamber and the input. But it's been a long time. Nothing's been done for a long time. Nothing has been done with a chamber motion asking for dialogue, for the proactive involvement of local authorities to get new ideas out of the way. No action has been taken on that. There is a consultation, or at least a limited consultation, at a late stage. How does the cabinet itself look back on this trial? And how does it look back on the new coalition agreement, the new ambition, the strong words of the current Foreign Minister? Is the approach taken in the Recovery and Resilience Plan not the approach of the previous cabinet, which was particularly slow, rather than the approach of a cabinet that embraces Europe, which shows to the other Member States how to reform and initiate new major projects? It is also very strange that the cabinet leaves it to officials to decide who consults it. In fact, this has also followed the line where the usual lobby clubs have been heard, i.e. the VNO-NCWs of this world. But it is new parties and also local authorities that are hardly, or really not involved. These latter parties hoped to be able to participate in a process in which we try to achieve new ambitions after Corona. Yeah, now they're getting involved again, at a very late stage. But if you look at what is now going on, the message is that all these projects are going on anyway, and the only question is whether it is being paid with money from Brussels or with money from our own budget. Then what is the authority of the Chamber? It is difficult to assess individual projects here. In addition, over 7 billion of projects are on the table, while there is only 4.7 billion. There is therefore still a selection to be made. So how is the cabinet going to make that selection? What is the decisive factor here: the consultation or the criteria set out in Brussels for the fund? How is that process going to take shape? Or is it the intention that we, as Parliament, should table motions to ask for individual projects from the Brussels fund or from the Dutch budget? How is it that a much more open, transparent process has not been chosen that allows much more creativity and involvement of others in the Netherlands? That is a big question we have. I hope the Minister can explain this. In the Recovery Fund, the European Commission has introduced guidelines for the "do no significant harm" test on the environment and climate through a so-called Communication which it can unilaterally adapt. At the moment, the Commission is considering how the loan part of the Restoration Fund can be better used in the light of the Ukraine war. Commissioner Gentiloni has publicly said that they may want to see if they can weaken the "do no significant harm" test. Does the Minister agree with me that we really should not want that and that the criteria that have been laid down should really be applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you. You're at the end. Your time is up, so I now give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u6	I just heard Mr Van der Lee say: is this being paid out of our own budget or with Brussels money? But Brussels has no money. That 4.7 billion is our own money. To the left or to the right, whether this plan goes ahead or not, the Dutch taxpayer is on the line. He's gonna pay for this. I really want to get rid of the misconception and constant deception that Brussels has 4.7 billion that it gives as a donation to the Netherlands, so that this minister and GroenLinks can do nice things with all their climate plans. It is Dutch taxpayers' money and it is returned to the Netherlands via Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u7	We have a fundamentally different view of this than the PVV. I explained at the beginning that we are in favour of this fund. It is very important that we work towards greater convergence in the European Union, and especially in the euro area. We can have a whole monetary discussion, but we are too far apart. We have been investing too little in the north-west of Europe for years. We have a huge surplus on our balance of payments. We do not give other countries the opportunity to earn from us. That is why such a Recovery and Resilience Fund is crucial. All Member States should be able to contribute and benefit from this. The Netherlands must also play its part in this. But the PVV does not see the need for such convergence at all. It does not see the need for the European Union at all, so we will never get together in that respect. This fund should not necessarily be used to finance Dutch projects. The point is that we as the European Union are working together on recovery and resilience after corona and that we are now trying to reduce the large differences between our Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u8	So that's all deception, this "convergence." We are just throwing money at southern Europe and we are only diversifying further and further. There is no convergence. Convergence is not for sale. You have to want convergence. If you want convergence, you should give the Italians their own currency so that they can stand on their own feet again than the Italians now get 4 billion from the Dutch taxpayer, then all of them do nice things with it and go back to the order of the day. In other words, convergence, resilience and corona; they are all excuses. The bottom line is that the Dutch taxpayer is giving Brussels EUR 20 billion, and we now have to get down on our knees to get back 4.7 billion of our own money from that same Brussels. It's our own money. This whole joke is costing us over 15 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u9	Here the PVV tells a well-known story, but she forgets to mention that the Netherlands has the most open economy of all Member States and that we benefit most from the free market. So we are making much more money from European cooperation than it costs to contribute to it. That puts the PVV on the line all the time. We think that is fundamentally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u10	I've heard a lot of interesting things. It's fine that we're making money from the free market. You don't necessarily need one coin for that. I have explained it many times: you have a free market, you have a customs union, you can have a currency union, a banking union and a geopolitical federal state. But if Southern Europe wants to make more money from us... in good old times one had to devalue. That is not possible with the currency, because they are all in the euro. They must therefore apply internal devaluation, reduce their benefits, reduce pensions, reduce labour costs and increase taxes. And if you can't do it, can you not give them their own currency so that they can devalue it and boost their exports? That's a good plan, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u11	Here too, I believe that our parties are ideologically on a different path. We have said from the outset, even when the Maastricht Treaty was in place, that monetary union also calls for a political union. Nor do we see Europe as a purely economic project and a free market, but as a political project. We see Europe as a project that was needed after the Second World War and is needed at the moment because of the threats from Russia. It is important that European Member States cooperate better. Then it is good if you have a free market, but also cooperate politically and also after such a pandemic that plays worldwide, try to work together on recovery. So here too, I think, we will not meet ideologically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u12	So you are prepared to sacrifice a significant part of Dutch prosperity to the European ideal? How much billion a year can that cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u13	The sum is reversed: the Netherlands earns more on Europe than it costs us. That has been the case for decades and we want to hold on to it for the future, then we will have to invest in this European cooperation: in the Corona Restoration Fund, but also now that we are facing new threats at our eastern border. Fortunately, this vision of Europe is supported by a growing number of parties in the Chamber. I also see that the cabinet is much more committed to European cooperation in relation to the previous period, and I invite the right-wing parties: go along with that. Have an eye for our prosperity, for our security, for a sustainable future! We only do that with our European neighbours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u14	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u15	Mr. Chairman. Where some parties will say today that it is embarrassing that the Netherlands is so late in presenting and discussing this plan, the SP actually finds it embarrassing that a plan is needed at all to get some of our own money back from Brussels. That's what the interrupting debate was about just now. Solidarity and emergency aid, especially between friendly countries, is of course important when it comes to a crisis situation, but not in this way. Not through Brussels, where a significant part of the money is hanging. Not only on the condition that the political demands of the EU are met and not long after the crisis is over. However, we are here today because this fund was set up. There is therefore no point in constantly holding such a fundamental debate. Now there's a plan. Then it is also logical that we should discuss this plan in the Dutch Parliament. In doing so, I would like to distinguish between the investments that are being proposed and the reforms that the cabinet intends to undertake, whether under Brussels pressure or not. On the investment side, there are good things to do. These are things that should be done in any case and should be done anyway, such as the sustainability and improvement of our inland waterways, wind energy at sea and the improvement of our railways. These are all useful and necessary investments in our own future. My question to the cabinet is whether these investments would have been different, in terms of size or form, if it had not been for the European Corona Restoration Fund. What is the added value of this fund for the Netherlands? How have these investments been adapted, if that is the case, to meet the requirements of Brussels? In addition, the SP wonders whether consideration has also been given to setting the VAT rate for public transport at zero, as recently made possible by the revision of the VAT Directive. Mr. Chairman. The money to invest in this kind of useful and necessary business, which is really just our own money, is not just from Brussels. To do so, we must meet their political demands and implement the reforms they consider desirable. Fortunately, there are also useful and necessary things, for example when it comes to curbing the unhindered housing market in our country. Thanks to the motion of the SP, for example, the jubelton is reduced more quickly and eventually abolished, as stated in the coalition agreement. In this respect, the Cabinet can therefore count on our support. But the cabinet also wants to triple the flight tax, regardless of whether you fly twenty times a year or only once for a well-deserved holiday. The SP doesn't think that's fair. We have said that several times. But what is completely bizarre is that people who switch to Schiphol, who make a transit, and thus add nothing to our society other than pollution and nuisance, do not have to pay the flight tax. Is the Cabinet prepared to make the flight tax fairer by making the transferrs pay as well? Is it willing to include that in this plan? And is the cabinet prepared to investigate whether every Dutchman can fly once a year without paying that flight tax, so an exemption for a well-deserved holiday for everyone? Mr. Chairman. But in fact, I fear that it will not stop at the flight tax, at the cost of driving or at any of the other unpleasant demands that Brussels imposes on us through this cabinet plan. The EU bureaucracy will not easily give up this new power in the form of the Recovery Fund, the SP fears. Is the government therefore prepared to reiterate in the plan that this fund is temporary and exceptional and that the Netherlands will never, but never, support it again in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u16	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I remember the run-up to this fund: Prime Minister Rutte, but also Minister Hoekstra, who blew the bus hard. They said: "We need strong reforms and really tough conditions, because those economies really need to be improved, especially in southern Europe. And that money shouldn't just be transferred anymore." Of course, there are substantial sums of money in this: many billions. For the Netherlands it has become less than previously budgeted. But something really has to be done. New measures are needed to make the economy more innovative, sustainable and social. And I have also looked a little at the plans that the cabinet has now submitted, also from the criteria of the cabinet itself, which are, of course, mainly for Italy, Greece and Spain. That has become a bit of a summary of the coalition agreement, of the measures already in place. For example, the core criticism of the PvdA is that genuinely important reforms in the tax system are lacking. GroenLinks has also expressed this criticism. We're in the middle of capital taxes: the most wealthy people don't pay anymore. I do not see any additional proposals with which they do. For example, the mortgage interest deduction is not completely reduced. I do not see any additional proposals here for box 2. I would have liked to have seen it here. The housing shortage is immense and I also mention the social paragraph of the package. There are simply the measures announced in the coalition agreement. We agree with them in some areas, such as the abolition of the landlord's tax. But we did not find the investments in liveable neighbourhoods sufficient. Here are just the amounts in the tables attached to the coalition agreement. That actually applies to all measures. That adds up to a grabbelton of 7.7 billion. The cabinet says: that is what we had originally planned; choose a little bit and then we have financed some of our budget problems. If that was the intention of this package, I ask the cabinet. Was this the intention of the cabinet towards other countries? I would have liked it if this money had achieved a more social, sustainable economy based on the broad prosperity that we should all seek, not everyone, but almost all of us. I'd almost say I'm missing a little vision in that. "Where vision is lacking, the people perish," I think Den Uyl used to say. So I would like to see real choices made in those pillars. If you want a sustainable economy, like the Cabinet wants, what do you do? Do you then charge more polluters and really stimulate innovations, or are you actually the first to honour the first applications for subsidies from companies that report to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and then add up the amount? Well, it looks a little like that's what happened. I think education and inequality of opportunity is one of the biggest problems of our time; I believe that the cabinet agrees with that. Then all I find is a National Educational Lab. Forgive me the terms in that package if you have a few billions to spend on completing this package. Education money, of course, often has to be structural, but there too, of course, it is quite possible to invest that will sustainably strengthen the economy and make the country really more social and better. I ask the cabinet why more education measures have not been included. Then international public transport. We're in the middle of the flight discussion. We don't have to talk about Schiphol today, but if we want something, we need international train connections. The Netherlands is hopelessly behind in that. It will take you seven and a half hours to get to Berlin, and it will last forever. You can't even come to Hamburg. And then I think, "Why doesn't it have a plan like that?" That fits in very well, doesn't it? So I kind of miss such choices in this package. I'd like to invite the Cabinet to that. Finally, Mr President. I really think that a few things, such as pig farming and fishing, so just buying things off and co-financing them, do not fit in at all. That's not helping. That's just buying off trouble. This must also be done, but it is not part of a package that should make the economy more social and sustainable. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u18	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, by train to Berlin I cannot recommend anyone: seven and a half hours to go and seven and a half hours back. We've been through it together. It was a GroenLinks idea, but I don't think it was there. And the VVD flew back. Well, then we're right about that. Mr. Chairman. What a play. We pretend to get 4.7 billion from our sugar daddy from Brussels, but we don't. The Netherlands has to pay for it itself. First we give away 20 billion to Spain, Italy and Greece, and then we have to beg to get back 4.7 billion of our own money. And to get that back, we have to meet all kinds of strict conditions and requirements. In addition, all these nonsense measures were already planned. So even without this plan, this plan would be implemented. So the whole plan is meant for the stage, to get a white foot in Brussels: look at us doing well in the Netherlands. But the worst part is that the plan is completely out of date, actually, like the whole coalition agreement. The PVV therefore says: back to the drawing board and on its way to new elections. The cabinet must focus on the problems we have today and not on the problems we had a year and a half ago. Inflation is skyhigh, which is more than 10%, as we could hear yesterday. Purchasing power is deep in the minus, growth is stagnating and people can't pay their bills. 10% of households live in energy poverty. That is the reality. The Netherlands is heading towards a deeper recession and perhaps stagflation, with all the misery of that. But this minister keeps himself hearing deaf and seeing blind in the obsession to solve the climate and nitrogen genes. Meanwhile, our society is going down. There is no home to get, the care is priceless, the education is heavy under the measure, the taxes are far too high and you name it. There's so much to do, and what's in the plan? More money to windmills, more money to heat pumps, sustainability and nitrogen, and more money to buy out our farmers. And as a blow to the head, the plan is full of tax increases. Reforms, they call them. How stupid can you be at this time of hyperinflation? A higher load on energy is even in it, especially now! The energy bill is already unpayable, and the energy tax goes up. The CO, the flying, the driving, the self-employed: all taxes become more expensive. And we also need to destroy our beautiful pension system. Mr. Chairman. The PVV wonders: where is the purchasing power plan? Use the money from Brussels to repair purchasing power. Lower the VAT on groceries. Lower energy bills for households and rents. Increase the legal minimum wage. You name it. Make sure the Dutch can make ends meet and not get in the cold, or in debt restructuring. Mr President, a few final questions. Can the Minister explain again why the Dutch taxpayer should give Spain 4.5 billion and 4 billion to Italy? 'Cause I can't. Italians are richer than Dutch and we give them a gift of 4 billion. Dutch people can barely make ends meet themselves and are short every month. Why should these billions be given away to other Member States? And why aren't these countries just borrowing on the capital market, like the Netherlands, or knocking on the emergency fund? That's what that's for. Why should these countries get the money for nothing, as a gift instead of as a loan? Mr. Chairman. Why does the Netherlands suddenly get 1.3 billion less than previously determined? How can you explain that? How is this gap in the budget closed? And why does Spain suddenly get 8 billion more? Why is Spain being rewarded for doing worse economically and is the Netherlands being punished for apparently doing something better economically? How much does the implementation of this plan cost? There's another whole programme management being rigged up, all of which costs money to report to Brussels, to account for our own money anyway. The plan contains EUR 7.7 billion of measures, but we have only EUR 4.7 billion. 3 billion is therefore deleted. Are these billions really being deleted or are they still being paid from the budget? Finally, Mr President. Can the Minister guarantee that this fund - the SP - has also been mentioned here and that the joint debt issue by the European Commission will be a one-off? Because the sounds to do this more often and structurally, sound louder and louder. We are already talking about a climate fund, a defence fund, an energy fund and a participation fund. They have a taste in Brussels. They want to make a lot of debts and hold us accountable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u20	We are not going to agree with the PVV today on the need to tackle climate change, the war in Ukraine and the big tech companies in Europe. This Recovery Fund is set up in such a way that the European Commission goes into the capital market to borrow money there and then to repay a large part of it through its own resources, through the Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism, which collects money by providing products entering Europe with a certain tax. Then I am surprised that the PVV actually says: we do not want that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u21	No. The European Commission is not raising any money either. The European Commission must not make any debts of its own. The European Commission has a contribution from the countries and must do so. That was the deal. But now they see their chance to raise money from the capital market themselves. Now it's 750 billion, but I told you the sounds are: this is going well, let's do this more often. Ultimately, we will have Eurobonds and a common debt union. The PVV doesn't want that. We don't want to be responsible. We do not want to guarantee the debts and loans of the European Commission, Italy and Spain. We don't want that. But if they do... they're talking about own resources. Like they have their own resources! No. That is a second thing the European Commission wants: European taxes. They want to send us blue envelopes later. First of all, they do so through companies at the border. We already have to give 75% of our import duties and you name it, to Brussels, but of course they want much more. How good would it be if the European Commission were no longer dependent on the contributions of the Member States, but could simply impose taxes on its own and spend them to the satisfaction of doing so? And if they're short, they'll raise taxes and spend even more. We don't want that. We want to be sovereign.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u22	In my view, it is very good that the European Commission and the European Union at the border are going to levy taxes and that we are going to benefit from them, including in the Netherlands. So I am surprised once again that the PVV says that we do not want these resources, and even if we do, we do not want anything at all. With that attitude we are not going to take any further and the Netherlands is not going to benefit from it either. After all, we in the European Union deserve our concern. I hope the PVV will take another look at it with that institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u23	Mr Tony van Dijck, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u24	Of course, we make a lot of money from the European Union. That is what we deserved when there was no European Union. That is what we deserved when the euro did not exist. Then we also made money on Italy and you name it. But what you want is to give the European Union the key to our treasury and all responsibility, and say: European Union, the Netherlands no longer exists, so you take care of it. We are a sovereign country. You are now talking about the CO levy at the border. This means that all products become more expensive. That means even higher inflation. This means higher prices for consumers in the Netherlands. We do not want that! We want to decide for ourselves what the Dutch pay. We want to reduce inflation. You with your plans and Brussels with its plans are only increasing inflation further. That's what you want. We think of the Dutch, of the importance of the Netherlands. You are thinking of the importance of Brussels and of the importance of the Italians. You're just in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u25	We would keep the interruptions brief and concise. I now give the floor to Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u26	Mr. Chairman. I will try to keep the duplications to a minimum. The European Corona Restoration Fund, the RRF, is a very expensive blow-through of around 800 billion euros, a cloaked transfer lock from the money from the sparing North to the past few years living in southern Europe; dolce vita at our expense. The whole deal, the tears run all over your cheeks, don't they? Almost 20 billion euros have disappeared like snow before the sun and for the smoked cigar butt out of its own box, the once free and proud Dutch lion has to jump through the European hoops of dummies like Timmermans. With membership of the European Union under the current conditions, more and more Dutch money flows across the border. It is money that can be used to compensate citizens for energy prices, to build houses, to make food affordable and to keep, to improve care and education, and so some more things that are of real use to the Dutch. Here, European interest is above national interest. The Corona Restoration Fund is an excellent example of this. Italy receives more than EUR 200 billion, and that is more than all of Europe's development aid to Africa as a whole. Spain is even sharper. Spain only uses the subsidies, i.e. the grants. Smart guys. Because the Spaniards understand that sinterklaas now lives in the Netherlands. How can it be justified that Italy receives 40 times more than the Netherlands? Pillishness and economic malpractice pay in Europe. After all, funding is being provided by the European Commission on behalf of the European Union. My first question: does the Minister agree with BVNL that this is a one-off? Or does the Minister want to repeat it? Such sounds are already heard from Paris. The collectivisation of European debt is another step towards a constant transfer union. This process has to stop. How does the Minister feel about a transfer union: to allow unnegotiable or perhaps under conditions? That is my second question. Mr. Chairman. The word "climate" appears 170 times in the plan. BVNL is also for significant spending on climate, but then the entrepreneurial climate, a favourable tax climate, a good locational climate and so on. To mention just a few simple things: for example, keeping the tax debt recovery threshold for SMEs at 20 billion at 0.01%, reducing the burden on entrepreneurs and a solution to a pension loss. Finally. SMEs are overlooked by the Minister, while the disastrous corona policy has helped them to abyss. Now that there's a recovery fund, they don't see any euros of it. Please respond from the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u27	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u28	Mr. Chairman. This debate is again about spending billions. And fortunately, this time there are also billions that can roll our way, provided we come up with good plans. The EU indicates that this is more than a recovery plan. It is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to emerge stronger from the pandemic and transform our economy; greener, more digital and more resilient. The question is: when is something a good plan? As far as the CDA is concerned, the Dutch recovery plan should also really and above all focus on strengthening the unique and innovative character of the Dutch economy. In October, the CDA filed a motion, and on request, about what we would like to see in the Recovery and Resilience Plan. This is, of course, the time to put the content of this motion alongside the recovery plan as it now stands. We can agree with many proposals, but we still have a few concerns and comments. Pillar 2 is about the digitisation issue. We are happy to read that firm ambition there, but the question is whether the concern we have here is whether these ambitions, without having the basis properly in the Netherlands, do not increase the differences rather than reduce them. We know that certain regions of the Netherlands are still not well digitally unlocked. There residents in the outskirts pay €2,300 to be properly connected to the internet and so there are strong thresholds. We therefore find the initiative in America interesting to provide people with low income with the Internet for free. The reason they do this is that it is seen as an important basic provision so that people can participate. How does the Minister view such an initiative for Europe? Does she want to be tough on this? In addition, we know that for many Dutch people a strong digital world, with too little human size, is a huge challenge to be able to continue to participate. We therefore miss plans on this part. We would also like to see funds made available in the plan to help automate our SME field through digitisation and increase labour productivity that is currently stagnating. Then pillar 3: smart, sustainable and innovative growth. In the introduction to this pillar, SMEs are clearly positioned as an important player in our economy. That is what the CDA shares and that was also an important concern in our motion. We are curious to see what SMEs are going to notice in concrete terms, in practice. Interesting to get the experience about this over a number of years from the market. Can the Minister undertake to do this? We are also pleased that resources are being used for retraining, retraining and retraining, to remove bottlenecks in the labour market, but also to provide people with opportunities to do what they are good at, to get energy from and to make them feel useful and valued. We will also have to answer the question of how, with a limited number of professionals, we can secure our sustainable ambitions for our prosperity and well-being. In concrete terms: are resources from the fund used in technical education, primary schools and secondary education in the regions; resources to retrain non-technical staff into technical skills? And then there's pillar 4. This should contribute to reducing inequality. We think it is a good initiative to tackle learning disadvantages, but what we are missing is to allow learning throughout the Netherlands to remain possible towards the future. I am referring to preventing the closure of small primary schools in the region. Learning is not only putting knowledge into children's heads, but also learning to live together, to organize social structures, to strengthen our thinking again. This includes primary schools as a solid anchor in society. Mr. Chairman. The CDA is dissatisfied with the process of involving regions, provinces, municipalities and sectors in the establishment and implementation of the recovery plan. As far as we are concerned, this has not been sufficiently done in advance, and we have made this clear in several debates. We're wondering why this signal was picked up so cowardly. Are we really so arrogant here in The Hague that we think we can think for others? Plans are still offered for consultation, but how much room is there for change? Being successful as the Netherlands we do together and for that we need all the strength and innovation of society. The CDA is therefore very curious about the reactions from the consultation and what is being done with it. Finally, one final afterburner. How are the CAS countries and the BES islands involved? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u29	Thank you. A few interruptions, first of all Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u30	Let me come back to the idea that the internet, fast internet, should be a basic provision in the Netherlands and also in the region. I just thought that was a good idea from Mrs Van Dijk. She asked whether the Minister would like to advocate this in Brussels, as is the case in America. But I would like the Netherlands to include this in their own plans. I just think it's a very good proposal. I think it fits very well in here. It goes a little further. With this you lay down more a basic provision for everyone in the Netherlands. I think that is what this is all about. Does she intend to propose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u31	That is what I intend to propose, of course on the basis of the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u32	I also have a question for Mrs Van Dijk. At the end, she criticized the trial. That's what I said, so I totally agree. But then I look back at the trial. The minister's predecessor has deported the trial. The group that Mrs Van Dijk is a member of has laid down in the government agreement how we deal with the Restoration and Resilience Fund. The Commission is now proposing to include other projects on top of that, or by way of derogation from that. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u33	I have also looked at the proposals that were put forward. I also looked at the pillars that were in it. I have thought about every pillar: if we do this, will we, in my opinion and in the view of our group, achieve the best result for the Netherlands? We think it's better to have other things in it. That is why I am putting them forward in this debate, for which this debate is also intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u34	Why, then, did Mrs Van Dijk or her group at that time make the agreement on the organisation of the projects which should be eligible? And, a supplementary question, which projects should then be deleted in order to continue the project which the CDA now seems to think is more important?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u35	I do not know which project should be deleted by definition. Maybe you can also win-win by putting in the basic provision as I presented it on certain parts, so you might not need other things. Maybe you're not ready for other things at all, because you can have huge ambitions in the digital field - I'm in favour of it, but if this increases inequality, I'm a little less in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u36	I have a question for Mrs Van Dijk about the leader of the party, Mr Hoekstra. It's had a metamorphosis the dogs don't like. A year ago he was still known as the dirty Dutchman who kept his hand on the clasp. Italians and Spaniards all fell over him: how dare you teach us about budgetary discipline? When that happened, he signed all the crosses and just didn't say sorry. And now he was in Maastricht yesterday saying that he wants to get rid of the right of veto, that he wants more Europe and more defence and more... Now he is catching up with this finance minister on the left. What happened? Is that the CDA line, or did something happen to Mr. Hoekstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u37	I don't know if anything happened to Mr. Hoekstra. I really think you're gonna have to ask him yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u38	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis. Excuse me, there is another interruption by Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u39	A very brief interruption, in addition to my colleague's question. I wonder what the position of the CDA is when it comes to giving up the right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u40	I do not think this is at all about giving up the right of veto. I think this is about what we think of the recovery plan that's there. Do we think it's a good idea? Don't we think it's a good idea? Do we have any suggestions for improvement? That is what this debate is about. It's not about the right of veto at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u41	I recognize it, but I am going a little along the lines of my colleague, with the approval of the chairman. This is part of the public debate. Mr Hoekstra said that we should give up the right of veto. After all, this is also about the European Union, so perhaps I can ask you as a CDA member: does the CDA also think that the Netherlands should give up the right of veto? That is a very clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u42	For the moment, we do not think that we should give up the right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u43	Thank you. Then we go to Mr Grinwis, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u44	Thank you, Mr President. This is a debate on a large grabbelton, in which, in fact, we already know in advance how many packages everyone gets. It therefore feels a bit like a debate about the emperor's beard. However, I have three points I would like to make in this debate. The first point is: what do we do with it? The second is, what do we do it from? The third is, what do we do for it? First of all, what do we do with it? That's the shortest point. The question "what do we do with it?" Isn't that interesting, actually. After all, we invest much more in climate, energy, housing, infrastructure and digitalisation than money is available in the RRF. I still have a question for the Ministers. Why do I not see a railway construction project such as the Lely line, for which not only the RRF but also the CEF, in line with Mr Boulakjar's and me's motion of last year? But in the background there are two questions that are of much greater importance, namely what do we do and what do we do for them? For starters, what are we doing? In other words, where does the money come from? In the previous letter of Parliament and in the draft plan that is now before us, we read that the cabinet attaches great importance to a firm and ambitious Recovery and Resilience Plan. If you read it that way, you would almost forget that the Dutch attitude has experienced a remarkable development. Two years ago, with the frugal four, our country opposed the arrival of the Restoration Fund. The idea was that such a European debt instrument would harm the countries that have public finances in order. Giving money to countries that have not built prudent buffers for more difficult times is not so wise. A debt union disguised as a coronasolidarity. But okay, the Netherlands managed to negotiate the demand for reforms in the fund and so that earlier stance is now over. In fact, the cabinet is now looking at the Recovery Fund with an ambitious look. Actually, I understand that. Once such a fund is in place, it is very wise to make a good plan to claim the available money as the Netherlands. However, it is important to look closely at the method of financing. That is why my question is: how does the Minister appreciate this European initiative? Does it consider it desirable for the European Commission to issue bonds and distribute the proceeds to Member States? Does this open the door to a debt union with full eurobonds or to new, temporary or permanent facilities financed by common debt? Let it be clear that the Christian Union still thinks that we should not want that. What is the Minister doing to prevent the creation of such a transfer union? Or does she think it would actually be a good development? I ask this because, in her letter of 30 March, the Minister responded to the motions adopted by Mr Van Haga, Mr Ephraim and Mr Omtzigt, considering that there are now no concrete proposals. But let me give you a note that this discussion will come back to Brussels. Perhaps faster than we think now, with the rapidly rising interest rate spread between Italy and Germany these days. So let's have a clear reaction. Then my final point, Mr President, what do we do for it? In other words: what does the reform side of the Dutch commitment look like? The classic Dutch sound was always: for what, hear what. If you get money from Brussels, there must be something about it, preferably substantial reforms. A country such as Italy has started to work with it. Prime Minister Draghi has even used the fund as a crowbar for fundamental reforms in his own country. That makes me curious: how does the Minister of Finance view the Dutch reforms? Are they solid enough in her eyes? On the one hand, we limit the self-employed deduction and abolish the jubelton. That's a good thing, but the mortgage interest deduction still stands like a house. That while the European Commission's country-specific recommendation has been crystal clear for years. As a Christian Union, we agree with that. The question is: are we getting away from the European Commission? Actually, I'm kind of curious about that. That is why I look forward to the Minister's first-term response. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u45	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u46	I'm kind of curious about that, too. I think Mr Grinwis is right to describe what is in the coalition agreement. That's why his first block was so short. It doesn't matter very much whether it happens to the left or to the right, it still has to be paid and we agreed. That was actually his argument. But the second part is of course relevant. What are you doing to make the economy more sustainable, more social, more innovative? Does Mr Grinwis agree with me that there really need to be fundamentally different choices? Think, for example, of the track, as he himself says, but also of the approach to power inequality. It's probably time to announce that now, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u47	That's actually two questions. First of all, I'm getting to the point about these rail construction projects. I believe that there are railway projects in the budget and in the coalition agreement that could have been included in the planning to Brussels. As an example, I mentioned the Lelyline, also because the coalition agreement included the ambition to push it forward so that one day you could get to Hamburg. Then you have two birds with one stone. Then you can call not only on the RRF but also on the CEF, on the facility to get such an international rail network in Europe. That is my answer to the first point. The second point was about power inequality. I think that we will have a debate on this in the near future. I think we are all looking forward to the Spring paper, in which steps could be taken, for example, to reduce the lack of capacity in the Netherlands. I have often said from this point on that the Christian Union sees the coalition agreement as a nice intermediate step, but certainly not as a terminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u48	Thank you. Then we go to Mr. Goldsword, JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the concept of Dutch Recovery and Resilience Plan. But, of course, we know that as the sum of money from the controversial corona fund; that pot of money of over 800 billion. And yes, that money is not free. JA21 has therefore acted against this fund more often. For us, the Corona Restoration Fund is politically and financially problematic. I have heard a number of parties here. I shall begin by commenting briefly on this and then on the plan itself. Because, like I said, that money isn't free. It now seems as if we are getting billions of euros from the European Commission, but of course we are not. That 800 billion is a debt that we, as EU Member States, have entered into together, and it must be repaid at some point. I have some questions for the Minister. Can the Minister explain how and how much we are going to repay as the Netherlands? Is it true that perhaps European taxes will be introduced to pay back those billions? Is it not the case that future generations will be burdened with enormous debt that needs to be repaid? Then why isn't this in your letter? I have a few more questions, but I'll save them for now. For in addition to our fundamental objections, we are also critical of the content of the plan itself. We see that a significant proportion of the proposals put forward by the Minister are in line with the D66 election programme, namely burden reduction and climate action. I see all kinds of tax increases, while we are in crisis time, like a flight tax and charging. Even the taxation of natural gas is increased if it is up to this minister, while for a large group of people the gas bill has become priceless. So, yeah, how is this possible? Does the cabinet know that many Dutch people are afraid to turn on the heating, because they simply can't afford it anymore? Then to the plan. For my part, investments that are worthwhile are the improvements in the IT systems of the criminal justice chain. These so-called grid investments also include investments in defence. And in these times of uncertainty, it is an absolute necessity that our defence is also prepared for future digital challenge. And although a drop on the glowing plate, the 260 million for the housing impulse is of course more than welcome. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. We are critical of this type of fund, because you are going to charge those billions in the future and force it back to greater integration. In substance, the plan is also used to consolidate the D66 election programme in cabinet policy. But chances are that it will continue, because VVD and CDA also think the common debt mountain is a good idea. With that in mind, we're looking at how we can improve the plan. If the money were to go mainly to purchasing power improvement and housing, we might still be able to support it. In any case, we are going to put forward a proposal for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u50	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Romke de Jong, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u51	Mr. Chairman. You can hardly blame me as a D66 man for being enthusiastic about reading the plan for the corona repair fund. Mr. Goudswaard already referred to it. What I see is completely different from some of my colleagues. I see investments in green energy, so we leave Earth viable for a next generation. I see investments in building new houses, so we deal with the housing crisis. I see investments in education and digitalisation, so that the Netherlands is ready for the future. But I also see reforms that make our country stronger. As a Chamber, we have often asked for local authorities to be involved in this recovery plan. The CDA also referred to it: can we assume that this municipality and other municipalities and provinces that would like to participate are quickly addressed? I am also thinking of SMEs, education, research institutions and specific sectors such as the arts and culture sector, on which a little more later. I ask this question because we would like to see these plans implemented quickly. The coalition agreement showed a lot of ambition in these areas for investment and reform. It is good to see that this ambition has now been put behind the back door of the Recovery Fund, but are the plans submitted properly and quickly? After all, we are already the last in the EU, so far without consequences. Can the Minister respond to this and promise that we will not leave the plans any longer until this does have consequences? Mr. Chairman. A sector seriously affected by the corona crisis is that of art and culture. It therefore seemed appropriate to D66 to do justice to this sector in the recovery plan, for example by joining the European Parliament's call for 2% of the recovery plan to be devoted to art and culture. My question is: why wasn't that chosen? Can it not be considered in the coming months whether the recovery plan for the cultural sector of Secretary of State Uslu can be included? In this way, we are doing justice to the justified calls made in recent years from the cultural sector. With these proposals and with those of other parties, we hope to achieve a good recovery plan. Other countries have already submitted their plans and are implementing them. We see many good examples. This Chamber often stresses the great importance for Europe as a whole that countries such as Italy and Spain are making necessary reforms. They're finally happening. That's what we've just been talking about. At the same time, they can make the necessary investments so that EU countries do not drift further apart economically. These lessons are important in the approach to a next crisis. I am thinking, for example, of the Ukraine crisis. We need huge expenditure on defence, reception or compensation for Russian sanctions. I would like a reflection from the Minister on how we are going to use the lessons for the Corona Restoration Fund for future challenges. Here too, in addition to a humanitarian disaster, we are seeing an economic shock in Europe that affects countries from our Union to varying degrees. Are we all gonna borrow, spend and reform or learn from the corona recovery fund and pull together? I have one more question. Would it therefore be possible for Ukraine to participate in such a recovery fund for the crisis, which, of course, affects Ukraine the most? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u52	Are you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u54	I have a question to ask you to clarify which agreement is in the coalition agreement. We understand that the agreement is that the projects ahead will all continue. The question is: is that paid out of the 4.7 billion we get from Brussels or is it pressing the regular budget in our own country? Now I hear the CDA making a proposal on a basic digital infrastructure. I hear D66 say, "Let's do extra on culture." What does that mean with regard to the coalition agreement? Does that mean that additional money must be released, either in the national budget or at the expense of projects which have been agreed in the government agreement to continue? I don't really understand what the coalition is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u55	I see it differently from Mr Van der Lee. I see a very ambitious programme, as Mr Grinwis said. The coalition agreement goes far beyond just the recovery plan. I'm actually very happy about that. But that doesn't mean I don't have any questions. I do have a question about how we can bring culture into this. I noticed. I simply have a question for the cabinet about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u56	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u57	What are you suggesting? Are you suggesting that some of the existing cultural plans be financed from the Brussels Fund or are you suggesting that additional projects should be carried out in the field of culture, which should preferably be financed from the Fund? Then how are you going to finance that? All these other plans must also continue. They will then have to be paid out of the regular budget. Are you going to cover those plans? How?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u58	What I like about Mr Van der Lee is that he always becomes very concrete and wants to have the solution right away. I see here an appeal, also from the European Commission, that it would be good to also invest 2% of the amount in culture. I actually think that is a very good proposal. My question to the cabinet is: why is this not happening? Are there any chances?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u59	Mr Alkaya, SP and then Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u60	D66 was really in a jubilee mood when announcing a triple flight tax. That's what this plan says. In my speech, I drew attention to the uncomfortable fact that a quarter of travellers at Schiphol Airport do not pay that tax. These are the people who are making a switch. Does D66 share the view that they should simply pay that tax, because that would be much fairer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u61	I find it difficult to give a concrete answer to that now, but I fully understand the concerns expressed by Mr Alkaya. I understand very well that he says: there are so many travellers who switch to Schiphol Airport and only to a limited extent contribute to our Dutch economy, because they do not pay that tax. If he's got plans for that, I'd be happy to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u62	That is a nice open position, but then I ask D66 to ask the same question to the cabinet. Look, I get it from D66 perspectives. If I were D66 and I wanted to make flying as expensive as possible, I'd understand the jubilee mood. But then it just feels unfair that a quarter of travellers do not pay that tax. Then why didn't D66 ask the cabinet that question? Is D66 willing to do this? If the cabinet says "we're going to investigate," then we can table that proposal together. Perhaps then there will be room to grant Dutch people an exemption from the tax once a year. Does D66 agree with me that we should also grant the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u63	Like Mr Alkaya, I have four minutes' speaking time. That means I make a choice, a trade-off, in my questions. I heard your question very well. I understand your call very well. You deposited it with the cabinet. I could repeat it, but I am sure that the ministers have listened carefully to this and that they will come up with an answer in a moment. If you say that you have good proposals, you will see in me someone who would like to discuss this subject with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u64	We are talking about the corona repair fund tonight, but do I understand why D66 is proposing to pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine from this fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u65	We say that we can learn lessons from the Recovery Fund. For example, we can raise more often when it comes to the common challenges. We can also see how we are doing necessary reforms. We just talked about that. Think of the reforms in Spain or Italy. However, I think that we should also have good procedures for checks-and-balances, for the effectiveness of these expenditures. In this light, D66 will assess plans for another recovery fund on its merits. I think it's too short to say: we were just looking at this. We can now also see what the strength of Europe can be. I'd like to learn from that, and I hope you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u66	My question wasn't whether we could learn from anything. My question was very specific whether D66 proposes to pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine from this corona repair fund. Or should I understand that D66 is proposing to set up another fund in which Europe is jointly taking up Ukraine's recovery? Just so much for that clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u67	Obviously. No, we're not gonna pay for Ukraine's construction from this Recovery Fund, but I'm gonna say I'm open to that. I see there's a country with huge problems. I see the opportunities of the European Union. I'm very happy about that. If that leads to something new... we've learned a lot about working together. I'm really looking at what lessons we can learn and use from it, including towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u68	Thank you. Mr Heinen, VVD, for his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u69	Mr. Chairman. How do we keep ourselves safe? And how do we preserve our prosperity? These questions are central to the time in which we live. Our security is visibly threatened by hostile states and has recently been invisiblely threatened by a hostile virus. As a result, the corona crisis not only put pressure on our health and gave it a huge blow, but also put our prosperity at risk. Never before has our economy had such a huge blow. Entrepreneurs were hit hard, budget deficits were running out and public debt was rising, not only in the Netherlands but throughout Europe and even far beyond. This is happening at a time when Europe is already suffering from high debt and structurally low growth, while investment is now needed to increase our prosperity. It may sound abstract, but that means very simply that everyone in the future simply has a job, has a good income, has a good pension and that we can live in safety with good care and good social services. That's the point. Mr. Chairman. That is why the European Recovery Fund was set up to help countries invest, especially in these difficult times. The condition was that these countries reform. That was an important demand for the VVD and that was also reason to agree with that fund, because ultimately it is not just about investment but also about reforms, to make us stronger. That seems to really work now. I even understand that there is now more reform than in all those years before. That's really positive. But what if you have actually committed all the necessary reforms and investments or even already implemented them, like the Netherlands? Not because Brussels had to, but because of the intrinsic motivation to make the country stronger. Then you should not just spend the money from the European Recovery Fund, but you should use it to finance existing plans. It's not a debauchery policy, it's a sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u70	This is really with two sizes measured by the VVD. All the other countries in Europe have a big gang and have to reform and the Netherlands has raked everything beautifully, has everything for each other, doesn't have to do anything anymore and actually has to pay everything from the existing budget. That doesn't make any sense, does it? There are huge problems. Think of people who can't make ends meet on their income. There are enormous problems with our tax system. There are huge problems because people can't find an affordable home in this country. Inequality is increasing and education is heating down. I'd be brief, but it's not like... Mr Heinen does not want to claim that this coalition agreement has solved all these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u71	No, that wasn't my argument either. My argument is that the reforms needed to resolve these problems have already been agreed in part in the coalition agreement. Some of them have to be carried out and some of them have already been carried out. Look at the country-specific recommendations. For example, there has been a long-standing pension reform in those country-specific recommendations. The previous cabinet carried it out. But it is true that reforms are also needed in the housing market, in social security or in tax avoidance. Mr Nijboer rightly points that out. That is what this coalition agreement is committed to. We're just getting started. We've been working for a year, so a lot of policy still needs to be implemented. But these plans have been agreed and made, and that is what the cabinet is now working on. Can I make another comparison with the rest of Europe? Mr Nijboer says: can it not be that the Netherlands is better off than the rest of Europe? Well, then I have news for you: we do. We are one of the most prosperous countries, one of the countries with the lowest unemployment and the lowest debt. We're insanely good for each other. We live on an incredibly high level of prosperity and we owe it to all the reforms we have put in place in the past. I am incredibly proud of that and I think we should also name it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u72	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u73	I am really concerned about structural problems in the Netherlands, such as the level of education and the delays in it. Like over 1 million, 1.5 million people who can't make ends meet from work. Like people who can't get a house anymore and can't pay the rent. It is not the case that all these fundamental problems are resolved in this coalition agreement. I understand that, because it's a coalition. You have to compromise and everyone has different priorities. But it just isn't. That claim just doesn't make any sense. If Mr Heinen is so hard on Italy, is so hard on Spain and is so hard on Greece, it would have been more appropriate for him to also see if the Netherlands is doing something extra to those fundamental problems now that is being made possible here. My answer is no, because the coalition agreement has simply been tabled. Mr Grinwis is right to say that. And do you cover that 7 billion here or there? That doesn't matter to the cabinet; that's why they let us choose. Actually, I don't think that's enough ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u74	Of course, the latter can. We can differ on this: do you set the priorities properly and do you put enough effort into it? That is the essence of politics. But we share Mr Nijboer's concerns about the problems. We may differ on the direction of solution we are using, but we see these problems. I am not arguing that all these problems have been solved. I said that the Netherlands already has many of the country-specific recommendations made by the European Commission in the context of the European Semester. The effects of these reforms may not all have been crystallised yet. It is true that some reforms still have to be implemented or that we still have to see the effects of these reforms, but that does not mean that we have done nothing. That is the essence of my speech. The Netherlands is really at the forefront of European reform. But are all the problems gone? Of course not. That is why we have entered into a coalition here with a number of parties and have concluded a coalition agreement. We still see a lot of problems in the country. Mr Nijboer rightly pointed to the availability of housing and purchasing power. We'll be working hard to solve it in the next few years. Are we gonna solve it one hundred percent? Of course not. Then we can all go home. In four years' time, too, there will be new problems that we will have to solve with each other. I hope that we will then be able to enter into cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u75	I was somewhat surprised that Mr Heinen said that as a country we are carrying out more reforms than ever. I admit that the list of reforms is quite strong, but it is not the case that, for example, we are implementing all the country-specific recommendations. Does Mr Heinen indeed think that we are doing enough to fish that 4.7 billion in our direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u76	Perhaps even Mr Grinwis's observation that we, the Netherlands, are carrying out all the reforms. I didn't say that. I have said that as a result of this Corona Restoration Fund, there is now more reform in Europe than in all those years before. That's a good thing. There is also quite a negative attitude in the Chamber about that corona repair fund. In my contribution, I wanted to show that there are also positive aspects, namely that we have a unique opportunity once in Europe to implement these reforms. Mrs Inge van Dijk pointed that out. You can see that happening now. I think that's a good thing. Mr Grinwis asks if we are doing enough for the 4.7 billion. I was just about to go there in my contribution. I think there is a vulnerability at one point, namely digitisation and labelling, the 20%. If Mr Grinwis agrees, I shall continue with my speech. Perhaps you could then give Mr Grinwis an opportunity to indicate whether that answers his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u77	Is that okay, Mr. Grinwis?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u78	I am simply going to sit down, but I would like to ask whether Mr Heinen would like to involve another vulnerability, namely housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u79	I will, but at the same time, of course, there are a lot of problems in the country that are not all addressed in this recovery plan that has been submitted. This is 4.7 billion. Of course, we also have the coalition agreement. That's about a lot more billions. There is also criticism in the Chamber that there may be too much investment. I think we're doing just right. There are, of course, more problems that we are solving in the coalition agreement that are not necessarily included in this corona recovery plan, and of course Mr Grinwis is well aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u80	Mr. Tony van Dijck, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u81	I would like to talk about the sovereignty of the Netherlands. I always know the VVD as the guard, but in Europe, even less so, of sovereignty. Taxation is one of the things that we are talking about ourselves, of which the VVD has always said to your predecessors, Mr Harbers and so on: "Listen, that is a national matter. Taxation is not something Europe needs to interfere with." Now we see that all kinds of tax measures are more or less sneaking in through these recommendations in this plan. So far, the recommendations have always been "okay, thanks for the tip, but we're not doing anything with it" or "to a greater or lesser extent we're doing something with it," but now these recommendations have suddenly become dictations. Because if you do not make that recommendation, Brussels can say: you will not get any money. My question to Mr Heinen is: if Brussels is to say: if you want to get that 4.7 billion, that mortgage interest rate deduction must stop on 1 January, or else you will not get that 4.7 billion. Does Mr Heinen then go along with it or does he say: you know what, choking with your 4.7 billion, we don't need that money anymore and we don't listen to those recommendations at all? Or does Mr Heinen say, "Okay, Brussels. You guys say "jump" and the VVD jumps"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u82	If he does, or if he doesn't, that's the kind of question I hear in between. The Commission is not going to say this. We have already had a debate on this. That was November last year. Unfortunately, the PVV was not present. You probably had other obligations. It was precisely this point, the Commission's recommendations in relation to the mortgage interest rebate. That was with the former Finance Minister, Mr Hoekstra. He even sent a letter of inquiry about that. So even if you were not in the debate, you could have read it. He said: this is not really an explicit demand from Europe, from the Commission. The Commission has looked more broadly and said: solve bottlenecks in the housing market and look at the debt position of households. We have, of course, already committed important reforms to this. One of the most important ones, we've deployed in the past. It's about the mandatory redemption if you want to claim mortgage interest relief. Yesterday an interesting report was published by the Central Bureau of Statistics. He said: this was actually the most effective measure to bring down the debt position of households. That is one of the reforms we have already implemented, and that is what I referred to in my contribution. There are a lot of reforms we have already done. Not because it was a dictation from Brussels, but because of the intrinsic motivation to make this country stronger, to make households stronger and to become more prosperous together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u83	Mr Tony van Dijck, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u84	I know that letter. Mr Hoekstra's letter does say that something must be done about the self-employed deduction and the mortgage interest deduction. That's what Mr Hoekstra thought I was in that debate, but that's not the point. The point is that Brussels makes a recommendation, that we now say on all these recommendations in the plan 'Look, comply with it, look, comply with it, to a greater or lesser extent', but that Brussels can say 'listen, we want you to do this'. It's possible. They do the same to other Member States. That's a back and forth ping-pong. The question is how sovereign we are. That is the fundamental question. Are we talking about our own mortgage interest deduction? Can we say to Brussels: climb up a tree, our taxes in the Netherlands are so high that we want to maintain the mortgage interest deduction as a douche bag for these high taxes on homeowners? Or do we say, "Brussels, sorry. You want us to tear that down, so we tear it down"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u86	That is the question of principle: if Brussels requires us to do so...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u87	You've asked him a few times now. Mr. Heinen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u88	That is a fair question from Mr Van Dijck, because the mortgage interest deduction is, of course, an important fiscal instrument for many households to maintain their purchasing power, because it is, of course, a significant part of the budget. The European Commission is not at instrument level. He says, "Look at the target." He says: there are high debts when we look at households in the Netherlands and you have to do something about that. No instrument is required from the European Commission and the country-specific recommendations. In addition, the Commission says that a significant part of the country-specific recommendations should be implemented for the corona recovery plan. The Commission does not say: you must implement everything. No, the Commission says: you have to implement a significant part. So countries are sovereign in that, and they have some freedom of policy in that regard. My argument is: whether Brussels says it or not, I want to opt for reforms anyway, because they make our country stronger. So I don't really care if it's in the country-specific recommendations. We've done a lot already. I think the pension review is a good example of this. It is mentioned in the country-specific recommendations, but far before that we were already working on them. We have been reforming pensions for ten years, precisely because of a point that Mr Van Dijck also considers important, namely that we can index faster. That is why we need to reform the second pillar. I think we've been working on that for ten years. This is therefore completely separate from the country-specific recommendations. That is the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u89	I have a brief question for Mr Heinen. Of course, he has not completed his entire speech. I think he had some comments on the whole digitization story. But today the Nibud came up with the alarming message that more and more middle-income people simply can't make ends meet. The Nibud is quite surprised by the fact that people with a middle income also say: I am not getting around anymore. Now I look at this plan and I see that the coalition intends to raise that energy tax on natural gas once again. I don't think I can follow that, but maybe you're a VVD guy? Would you mind letting your light shine on that for a moment? Are you actually going to keep this in this plan? Would you mind responding to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u90	I also saw the Nibud's message. That's worrying. We know part of it, don't we? The energy bill is rising and prices are also rising on a wider front. It eats in an incredible way at the purchasing power of perfectly normal people. We've been arguing for this for a long time. In the previous discussions on purchasing power, we also talked about compensation for the rising energy bill. We have also looked specifically at those middle incomes. That was on the excise duty, for example. This was, for example, the design of the tax rebate on the energy tax. So we do have an eye for that. We have also said that prices are rising at such an unprecedented rate that it may not be possible to compensate everyone for 100%, but we need to spend 100% of our energy to compensate as much as possible. Then the question from Mr... I'm sorry. I just lost your name.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u91	Mr. Gold Sword.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u92	I'm sorry, you're replacing your colleague, and it's the first time we've had a debate together. Mr Goudswaard explained one measure and asked: what do you think? I would like to point out to him that the corona repair plan is actually a labelling discussion. There is a broader package of measures: it is called "the coalition agreement." I do not think Mr Goudswaard means it that way, but it is actually faint to highlight and assess one measure. After all, there is a broader package for the sustainability of our economy. I think that is a good direction. After all, energy prices are rising partly because we are dependent on energy from abroad. So I think it is important that we invest in renewable energy, to become less dependent and also to get more stable prices and a more stable energy bill. I do not think it is entirely fair to highlight one measure, because we have a wide range of sustainability measures in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u93	You said that, yes. Mr. Gold Sword.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u94	I don't mean to be faint at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u95	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u96	I read this message. My group has, probably like so many groups, received several questions about this. People are really worried about this. So I think you can handle this very easily by saying: the VVD sees this as well and the VVD is just going to make a big effort to get this out of the plan. That's what I'm asking you about. I don't see what's faint about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u97	I'm glad you said that, because I didn't mean to describe your interruption as "flood." However, in general terms, it is faint to assess one measure on its own, and not to look at it in the context of the broader package agreed in the coalition agreement. There are indeed reforms of energy taxation that influence, among other things, the price of gas. But the same coalition agreement also includes tax cuts. The whole package has been assessed and the impact on purchasing power has been assessed. In that totality you have to look at it and that's where my reply focused. You can't take one measure out of it. The corona recovery plan is part of a broader package that is the coalition agreement. So it doesn't matter whether or not a measure is in the recovery plan. It is ultimately about the coalition agreement and the broad package of measures we are taking to maintain people's purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u98	The VVD is of course a liberal party, and classical liberalism stands for a small state and is for the freedom of individuals and companies. Now we see here the concept of a Dutch Recovery and Resilience Plan in which the Dutch State and the European State, the European Union, are going to interfere with almost all aspects of the economy. I read a few investments: wind at sea, car tax reform, as has already been mentioned, and intelligent road side stations. That's really going to micro-level. How does the VVD feel about that? Is it not worrying for the VVD that the European state will micromanage our economy through all kinds of subsidies? Is that compatible with liberalism?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u99	First of all, there is no European state. Thank God, I'd say. You can think politically differently about that, but I am of the liberal line in the sense that I am glad that there is no European state. The beginning of my speech was precisely on this point: we are taking these measures not because Brussels has to, but because we want it ourselves. It is not at all the case that Brussels prescribes anything here. Brussels says: you can reform a number of things. We want to do it ourselves, because we think they're making our country stronger. Brussels makes a specific recommendation for all countries: if you do this, your economy will become stronger and you can increase your prosperity. It is then up to the Member State itself to redistribute prosperity internally. Mr Van Houwelingen pretends that there is a European state that prescribes dictatorships and micro-level measures. I've never heard so much nonsense together, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u100	Finally, Mr Van Houwelingen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u101	Yeah, finally. That's not my question. What I said about Europe is happening, but that is not my question. My question is: do you have to acknowledge that what is happening now is that the European state, the European Union, is going to interfere with all kinds of aspects of our economy in order to do you a favor? That's what happens to the plan we're going to file. You can't deny that, can you? How does that relate to liberalism, to liberal values?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u102	Yes, but then you should also assess what the alternative says and how liberal that is. Because if you are in a currency union with certain countries that do not follow the rules of the game and do not reform, how fair is that? Mr Van Houwelingen is different in that discussion, because he does not believe in currency union at all. He sees another European Union before him. I do believe in the European Union and the currency union we are in. That's what common rules are for. This includes calling on each other to abide by the rules of the game and saying: perhaps you need to reform certain things to get your country more in line with the agreements you have made with each other, such as the Stability and Growth Pact, convergence and so on. We are pretending that the alternative is very liberal, but that is unliberal, because we are in a currency union together and cannot be freeriding. You can definitely talk to each other about that. But there is no European state that does that. That's what you do to each other. In the European Commission and the European Council, you look at countries and address each other if someone fails to follow the rules we agreed on together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u103	Mr. Dassen, would you care to comment on this last point? If not, I will give the floor to Mr Ephraim, because I think he wants to speak on this last point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Heinen is right to say that we must stick to the rules of the game and that they must be respected, but I believe that there was already a Stability and Growth Pact. Italy has never kept to that. France and Germany were the first to throw that overboard. How does Mr Heinen view this? Shouldn't the government have done much more and be much stricter to keep all these countries to the SGP, to the 3% and 6% standards? They have not done so, and as a reward money is now being thrown into those countries. So you're rewarded for breaking the rules of the game, before you don't follow the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u105	I think this is a simplification of the situation. Mr Ephraim knows that too. I fully agree: Italy does not comply with the Stability and Growth Pact, as do many countries. That is also one of the reasons why we need to look closely at the need to reform the Stability and Growth Pact in order to ensure that we are stronger in terms of debt sustainability. The question is, how do you end up on that debt shelf life? You can talk to each other about budget deficits, but in the end I do not think that Europe has a debt problem. I think Europe has a growth problem, because the level of debt can also be reduced by growing more. That is exactly what the Corona Restoration Fund has in mind, namely investing in the growth capacity of economies, so that countries grow. That's also a way to improve your debt sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u106	Finally, Mr Ephraim.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u107	There are more scenarios, by the way. Mr Heinen knows that too. You can run out of debt because of inflation. That is also a solution to the problem. You can set up a moratorium and cancel debts. That's a solution, too. And you can, of course, lift the currency union. That too is a solution. I know that people who look a little more friendly to Europe than I do hope for the growth scenario and that they pray a Hail Mary every night in the hope that it will come true, but I don't know yet. Does Mr Heinen really think that the growth scenario is going to work when money is going to go again without too much sanctions for breaking the parameters in the past? I don't have faith in that, do he?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u108	I'm more optimistic in life. I think it's possible in the end, and that's the most important thing. You know it's possible. The Netherlands shows that it can, because the Netherlands is reforming and growing and is much more prosperous than countries that do not. So it's possible. The question is, is it going to work? I think that we should seize this opportunity, and I think that Mrs Van Dijk described it as a unique, one-time opportunity to invest, in order to ensure that those countries grow. If that doesn't work, you'll have another debate with each other. But you always have to try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u109	I have a bit of a feeling that Mr Heinen is also taking a walk with the spirit of the fund. He's right to say that we need to invest to get out of the crisis. These are investments that need to be additional in the budget, precisely to ensure that countries move towards the future in a sustainable and digital way. But in the Netherlands we say: we have all the existing plans and that's what we're going to do. I have a feeling that, if all the other countries set it up in that way, the Corona Restoration Fund would not be a very great success. But that's not really what my question is about. In fact, colleagues from D66 and CDA quite rightly criticized how the Dutch proposal came about: the fact that social partners, the provinces and the regions were not involved. I wonder how the VVD looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u110	Mr Heinen, on the trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u111	I heard a lot of questions, but I didn't get the last question you asked me right away. I would ask Mr Dassen if you could repeat it one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u112	Oh, yeah. D66 and CDA quite rightly criticise the way the fund was created. They say that civil society, provinces and municipalities were not included. I wonder how the VVD looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u113	Each party is about its own analysis, so I'm not going to consider it. I'm not a soccer commentator. If I look myself... most of the plans contained in this recovery plan come from the coalition agreement. I believe that the main criticism of achieving the coalition agreement was that it took too long and that the forming parties have spoken too much with parties. So I think society is very much involved. Again, the criticism was rather that we spoke with too many parties than with too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u114	Mr Dassen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u115	But for our Chamber, it is still unclear which parties have spoken to. Does the VVD agree with us that there should be more clarity about this and that it would therefore be good if, for example, a lobbying paragraph were added to the Corona Restoration Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u116	The formation archive is just public, so you can see who's been spoken to. That is ultimately the basis for this recovery plan. If there is uncertainty in the Chamber and who wants more insight into who has been spoken to, then of course that insight must come. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u117	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u118	Yeah, I was just getting started. I was actually at the heart of my speech: that if you are already doing a lot of reforms and you have planned a lot of investments, you should use that money from Europe, from the Corona Restoration Fund, mainly to finance those plans and not make new plans. That starting point of no debauchery policy, but wise policy, has ultimately made the Netherlands great. I've referred to it before. This principle has made the Netherlands one of the strongest economies. This is also reflected in the economic recovery of the Netherlands, even so strong that we can get less money from the European Recovery Fund. There was much more economic recovery than anticipated. This is not the EUR 5.8 billion expected, but EUR 4.7 billion. This seems to be a setback, but not if this is due to higher economic growth, which also leads to more revenue for the government. At the bottom of the line, the effect on public debt will be small. Can the Minister comment on this? Is there really a setback or more of an accounting problem? Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to claim that 4.7 billion, we need to invest the money in digital transition, among other things. It is 20% of total expenditure, to be precise. Then I come back to Mr Grinwis' point. If I study the recovery plan properly, this seems to be the vulnerable point of this plan. Because whether we achieve the required 20% depends on two major projects, if I read it correctly: Groundbreaking IT at Defense, another colleague referred to the ERTMS and the ERTMS train security system earlier. That project has been going on for a very long time. This latter project is particularly extensive, complex and ambitious in terms of timeline. How is the Minister going to ensure that this dossier is actually delivered in order to prevent future setbacks, namely that we do not achieve objectives and therefore do not meet the conditions? In addition, I do not see in the recovery plan anything about combating bogus self-employment, although this is reflected in the country-specific recommendations. This is part of the coalition agreement. The coalition agreement also refers to the need for the cabinet to work on clarifying the employment relationship in advance and, in conjunction with that, better enforcement. Why does this not appear in the Dutch recovery plan with concrete objectives? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my last point. Whether or not a measure is included in the Dutch recovery plan does not result in additional money for that measure. It is a policy that has already been planned. We are now debating this in detail. However, if a measure is included in the recovery plan, it will lead to stricter monitoring or effective implementation, with clear objectives and milestones. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman, because I see I've run out of time. In fact, monitoring policies should not depend on whether or not a measure is included in the recovery plan, but you should do so at all. We are doing it not for Brussels, but for the intrinsic motivation that we want it ourselves. I've referred to that before. I would therefore ask the Minister: why not extend the monitoring of the implementation of the coalition agreement and the setting of targets and milestones, not just in the recovery plan, but in the whole coalition agreement? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u119	Thank you very much. There is another interruption by Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u120	If I have listened to Mr Heinen correctly, he says: the added value of this fund and this whole exercise for the Netherlands is quite limited. The investments that we are going to make out of this if it is well, we would already be doing so. We'd be doing the reforms by now. That's all in the coalition agreement. But hopefully we can partly finance it with money that flows back into our pockets by means of a detour through Brussels. We can get some of the money we're paying back. There are therefore advantages in enforcing reforms in the south; that is what he indicated. But they're not free, are they? There's a price tag on it. Is he also saying that this could be repeated? Does he say that I, as a VVD member, am so satisfied with the reforms that we have forced in the southern Member States in such a way that we could do so again in the future? Or does he, together with the SP and among others the PVV, think that this was a one-off and that we should also underline this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u121	In southern Europe there is a price to pay; that is right. Of course there is also a price tag not doing. The alternative is never free; first of all. We need to see whether it will be implemented in those countries. We're in the middle of something right now. The recovery plans shall be submitted. The instalments shall be paid out. In a few years, you can see if it's successful. What we are seeing now is hopeful that there will be real reform now. Mr Alkaya asked whether the fund should be one-off. This is a one-time fund. That's the deal. That's what I agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u122	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u123	My specific question was: does Mr Heinen agree with me, and among other things the PVV, that we should stress that again? This can be done, for example, in that plan, or in that the cabinet receives the assignment from us to emphasize: in this case the Dutch plan, but it is one-off and exceptional; we are not going to do this anymore in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u124	I get it. I also understand the concern, because I see many plans in Europe that lead to new funds and so on. To be honest, my eyebrows frown on that, too. I always find it a little difficult in politics to re-confirm current policies which are not covered, for example, in motions for resolutions. It's possible. You can do it. But I find it so easy sometimes. I can see some of the parties do that a lot. Then certain policies are not on the agenda and a motion is tabled which states that the policy is not on the agenda either. But it's not the issue. This fund is temporary. Sure, you can stress again that it's temporary. But it doesn't say anything that it's structural. This fund is temporary. It's fine to reconfirm that one more time. But yes, that's standing policy. So what exactly are we doing with each other by continuing to reconfirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u125	Thank you. You're out of interruptions, Mr. Alkaya. Thank you, Mr. Heinen. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u126	Thank you. I hear all very big topics. I'll keep it small. I've got some little things. President and inhabitants of the Netherlands. Tonight we are talking about the Corona Restoration Fund, namely the Dutch Recovery and Resilience Plan. The plan consists of 39 measures, with a cost of billions. We have a few reservations about some of these measures. We also have questions about this to the cabinet. The removal of the exemption from the purchase tax for fossil vans, while retaining electric vans, is expected to lead to an increase in the number of electric vans. That would be fine in itself. But can the power grid handle that? We're already in big trouble. The aim of the energy tax is also to make the use of electricity cheaper. This measure will also increase the use of electricity. In the coming years, efforts will be made to strengthen the electricity grid. But also business organisation VNO-NCW believes that more is needed and calls for more central direction from the government. For example, the waiting period is now up to two years for restaurants that want to switch from gas to electric cooking. Can the Minister explain whether the cabinet has plans, and what they are, to promote the strengthening of the electricity grid? Can it take a central role in this? Then about the Nature Program. This concerns, among other things, land-use organisations, the TBOs, e.g. State Forest Management and Natural Monuments. In the Nature Programme there is talk of system restoration of nature, system herstel. However, the so-called Habitats Directive calls for measures to stop further deterioration of Natura 2000 sites. So I do not understand the word'system recovery', because the Habitats Directive states that the deterioration must be stopped. That's different from the fact that nature needs to be restored. Meanwhile, the PBL itself also says that 80% of the nitrogen-sensitive nature reserves are in good or improved condition. And the critical deposition values are too sharp, the PBL says. For example, the dune area has a high precipitation nitrogen, but conservation is stable to positive. That is true, because there is no ammonia coming from the North Sea, as RIVM had mistakenly included in its sources of nitrogen deposition. The omission of this brings the deposition in the Natura 2000 sites in the Dutch coastal area below the critical deposition value. This gives space to construction, agriculture and fishing. This was already discussed with RIVM in 2019, which turned it into ammonia from the sea first, and later into a measurement correction. Why does the Minister still not allow this to be corrected in the AERIUS instrument? In addition, it is used to have the conditions of water quality and recreational pressure in order. To monitor this, an annual monitoring system is set up. But there is already monitoring, isn't there? And is this monitoring going to be carried out externally, or still by the TBOs themselves? Then who is going to check these TBOs, and what can the Minister say about this? The costs for the Nature Programme have three striking points. The first is the use of hydrological measures in and around natural areas; this is also about the surface water regime. Can the Minister indicate what measures are envisaged by these hydrological measures in this case? And does this include, for example, the additional construction of wet nature areas? Because it is precisely with the increase in the number of avian flu outbreaks that it is very undesirable to add wet nature areas. Or are we going to do that, and then we are going to chase farmers away after many generations when the birds fall dead from the sky? So that's going to cost billions again. Some of the resources go to the ground-up. Who's this land for? The TBOs, the road construction or the housing? And how much ground are we talking about? I'd like an answer from the Minister. I see I've run out of time. So finally point three of nature; then I'll leave the rest for a while. There's an increase in the management fee for TBOs. On what grounds? Is that really necessary? TBOs do not have to account for the results achieved in their nature reserve, but receive more money because this is considered necessary. Can the Minister explain why the TBOs are getting this increase and why they need it? 'Cause did they do their job right? Do we know that? I can't go on, can I?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u127	No. So I actually liked that you stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u128	Not me, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u129	Nothing to the detriment of your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u130	I've got some more interruptions. So maybe we can still do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u131	And a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u132	Sure. It was not that long and I said the most important thing as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u133	Well, that's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u135	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u136	Mr. Chairman. Never waste a good crisis, you might say; use the opportunities offered by the crisis to get out better. In this house, we have talked very often about the opportunities offered by the corona crisis to get out better, to recover more from nature and the climate and for social reforms, fundamental reforms. But this fund leaves opportunities for climate, for nature, for people and for society. Today, a new analysis by the World Meteorological Organization shows that the probability that the average annual temperature on Earth will rise by 1.5 degrees over the next five years is much greater than we thought, namely 50%, whereas we previously thought that the probability was much smaller. We notice it's getting warmer and warmer. The heat record from 2016 is expected to fall rapidly. And nature runs backwards. The Rli has the alarm bell sound: nature policy is failing. And now there is a fund, a recovery fund, which could lead to fundamental reforms. The Animal Party was against this fund, because of giving out powers, but now that this fund is in place, we must also take advantage of it for improvements. However, we see that fundamental changes are lacking, so the system choices that are needed to really tackle the climate and nature crisis. There is no economic system change. Economic growth is under way, and that is precisely what we cannot use. Economic growth is the problem and not the solution. Let's make sure those billions are well spent. It's not like there's nothing good in here. We see the abolition of the reduced rate for greenhouse horticulture. That's fine, like the doubling of wind at sea, but it continues to plan green in a grey and fossil system. Besides, these are plans we already know. They're in the coalition agreement. And instead of using this extra money for climate and nature measures, the cabinet chooses to use it to close holes in a fossil budget, a business-as-usual budget. And these gaps really hit the cabinet itself in that budget, because the big polluters and the big powers still get away with it, and because there are unnecessarily many billions spent on the wrong things, such as subsidies on woody biomass, manure digesters and CO storage, CCS. The Dutch budget is at the expense of the climate with these 17.5 billion in fossil subsidies and exemptions to compensate for the fossil energy bill and fossil fuels. With the use of new money for old policy, the cabinet is behind the facts, literally and figuratively. Take the measure to clean up pig farming. That arrangement has even expired, but it's just in that Recovery Fund. Is the cabinet running or accounting? Mr. Chairman. We need a real response to the climate and nature crisis, but that is not going to happen. New leadership stays out. The cabinet's proposed plans add up to 7.7 billion, so it seems that choices still have to be made. That's right, that's how I ask the cabinet. And what does that mean for the plans that don't make it? Is it true that they are actually financed from the regular budget? I would like to be promised that at least the climate and biodiversity plans will not be affected. Come up with a progressive rate for the energy tax. Disburse fossil subsidies. Come up with a uniform CO charge for all emissions and apply to all sectors. Those are the system choices we have to make, because without these additional measures, the chance of a real green recovery has been lost, and soon the chance to keep the earth viable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u137	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u138	Mr. Chairman. During the negotiations on the Recovery Fund in 2020, the cabinet was not very enthusiastic. The questions that were asked were: is such a megafund necessary and should the Netherlands take on these joint debts? As far as we are concerned, these were justified questions, but suddenly the Netherlands was overstagged. A so-called emergency braking procedure brought a result. Mr. Chairman. The SGP was, and still is, critical, very critical. Because whatever we say about it, the fund is a round pumping machine. We put a lot of money into it as the Netherlands, brought in by Dutch households and entrepreneurs, and we only get a very small part of it back. And what we do get in return are European requirements and controls from the Commission. Of course, as the Italian economy grows, so is our Dutch entrepreneurs. And when the French retire a little later, the Netherlands also reaps the benefits. But the costs are very high, and as far as the SGP is concerned too high. Mr. Chairman. As I said, after an emergency braking procedure was set up, the cabinet moved on to prevent, for example, slow progress of plans. But what about the emergency braking procedure? Is this one ready for deployment? And are there any signs that the emergency brake will be used, for example by the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. The estimate was that from 2028 onwards, the Netherlands will be able to pay 1 billion annually to repay all subsidies awarded by the EU. It is becoming increasingly clear how much the subsidy part is going to be used, but at the same time we have to note that interest rates are rising, which may lead to higher costs. Can the Minister indicate the amount of money that the Netherlands is entitled to pay annually? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has put forward proposals of up to EUR 7.7 billion, but as there is only EUR 4.7 billion available, this can still be pushed a little further. And although all the plans, as we have just heard, are already part of the coalition agreement and are therefore going to be implemented, at least I am assuming that we will only get that 4.7 billion once the plans have been approved. But let's say those plans aren't approved or we only get part of the money. Will measures be removed from the coalition agreement? Or are the plans paid for differently? In other words, to what extent are projects dependent on funding from the EU Restoration Fund? Mr. Chairman. In order to be eligible for subsidies, we also need to implement reforms. That's still a little unclear, at least for me. The draft plan contains all kinds of reforms, but what exactly are we imposing on ourselves? And what can the EU actually demand from us in the future? Some of them will have to be further developed in the negotiations in the coming weeks. We understand that, of course, but can the Minister promise that the Chamber will be kept proactively informed of all the arrangements made by the Cabinet at that time? Indeed, robust reforms with milestones and objectives can greatly restrict the participation of the Chamber. And how can the Chamber get more insight into this and more say in it? Mr. Chairman. The cost of the Recovering Fund, which I have already indicated, will be borne by households and entrepreneurs, but as far as the SGP is concerned, those households and entrepreneurs should also benefit from the benefits of the Fund. Quite specifically, will families benefit from, for example, a more accessible labour market? And is it easier for the baker on the corner to buy a new, sustainable oven? And how does it become more interesting for greenhouse horticulture to switch to electricity? And will it indeed be easier for those SMEs to purchase such an electric van? In short, can the ministers indicate on behalf of the cabinet what the Dutch people with a middle income and the Dutch SMEs will actually notice about the Recovery Fund? I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u139	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Houwelingen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, that's how it is. First, under the guise of a corona pandemic, our economy is being completely helped down through the absurd lockdowns. Next, this economic crisis, like any crisis, is being abused by the European Union in order to seize power and create a huge so-called corona-restoring fund, a fund that should restore the European economy. But why do we need the European Union to do that? Hasn't the Netherlands been able to do its own business for centuries? FVD was mordicus against the rigging up of this European Corona Restoration Fund, which we are debating today. In vain, because the fund has come anyway. What the hell does Corona have to do with this corona recovery fund? There are plans to reform car taxes. We are talking about energy taxes, about the restructuring of pig farms and about CO taxes. It won't be a surprise for the people who have been following us for a long time. This corona repair fund is a wolf in sheep's clothing. It's planetary red in a green climate jacket. It's a watermelon. It is the Great Reset sold as a bitter necessity to restore our economy. Let me translate some of these measures into Dutch for you. Energy tax reform, we read. That means more gas taxation and less electricity. So anyone with a central heating boiler is screwed. In other words, the normal Dutchman. Another measure. Introducing and tightening up the CO-tax industry, it says. This means that the industry would have to pay more money for every tonne of CO. This is of course passed on to the Dutch citizen, so to all of us. Finally, the subsidy scheme to clean up pig farms. This means reducing livestock, because you have to eat less meat. What the hell else do these measures have to do with corona? Do you see what's happening? The so-called corona crisis is used to change our way of life permanently and thoroughly. We have to stop using gas, eat less meat, emit less CO, because that's the only way we can get corona under it together. In other words, this fund is being abused, as expected, by the European Union for achieving globalist objectives. Because we have to jump through all kinds of hoops as the Netherlands, and it has been said a few times already, to be able to claim this fund, a fund that is filled with Dutch tax money. How absurd is this? They are hoops and require nothing, but they have nothing to do with economic recovery. For example, in the letter sent to the Chamber by the Cabinet on 28 March, we read the following. "For example, 37% of expenditure should be climate-related and 20% of expenditure should focus on the digital transition." Yeah, here comes the monkey from the sleeve. The creators of this European Corona Restoration Fund have devised six pillars that would be most important to restore the economy in the EU. It is six demands imposed on the Dutch Corona Recovery Plan to be submitted in Brussels in order to claim our own tax money, six hoops through which Cabinet and Chamber have to jump. Let me sum them up for you: green transition, digital transformation, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, social and territorial cohesion, health and economic, social and institutional resilience, and finally policies for the next generations. In other words, an implementation of the globalist Sustainable Development Goals. So the Great Reset, a total transformation of our way of life. That is the true nature of this so-called corona repair fund. It's not about corona or lockdowns or mouth caps anymore, it's about the bigger picture. It's about control of every aspect of life. Again and again new symptoms, new manifestations and materializations of the same underlying trend: the ever greater control of a constantly more powerful State, which with every step further towers over the permanently small and vulnerable individual. This so-called Recovery and Resilience Plan also fits into this picture. It is about the transfer of power and control from the individual to the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u141	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u142	Allow me to correct a few points from Mr Van Houwelingen's speech. I don't know all about this stuff. I sometimes pretend, but it's not like that, but I happen to know about pig farming. Mr Van Houwelingen mentions the warm recovery scheme for pig farming as part of the plot, The Great Reset, but the warm recovery scheme for pig farming, and the 275 million mentioned therein, is a plan of pig farming itself. That's a plan that was initiated five, six, seven years ago, because a number of provinces had to do with odour nuisance. At that time, the pig farms said they wanted to take responsibility for themselves, to show that they want to do so in those smell-burdened areas, where there is a lot, because those pig farmers also want to maintain support in the area. So they said: we're making a plan to see if we're in some areas... sorry that it's taking a little longer, but I do think it's important because this is being set up as a conspiracy. The pig farming industry itself has said: we want that odour tax to be reduced in a number of eastern areas, for example in Gelderland, Overijssel, Brabant and Limburg. That's a voluntary arrangement. That was voluntary enough for pig farmers to sign up for it, and so have they. Of the 500 who have registered, some have not done so in the end. They are not forced at all, there is no question of that at all. In the end, more money has also been made available, in case more pig farmers would like to. I would like to contradict that, and that might save the civil servants a bit of work. That is the reorganisation scheme that is being discussed here. I think it is very good that Mr Van Houwelingen and his party are very critical of matters, and you should continue to do so, but it is therefore very wrong to see this as a conspiracy: because we have to eat less meat, pig farming must go. I would ask Mr Van Houwelingen to come and see me next time, if he wants to know something about pig farms and say, because we are on the same floor. Then we can discuss that and at least we can remove a lot of noise on the tube.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u143	Thank you very much for this comment. We're sitting next to each other in the hall, so we're gonna be fine. I'm sure you're right to know a lot more about pig farming than I do. The point is only, and we see this coming back a few times in this debate, that it is so difficult to determine what is autonomous, so to speak. This will undoubtedly be a consideration of pig farming, as you say, but another consideration is that what you know as no other is that they are slowly being bullied away from their farms by all kinds of European regulations. That's also a truth you're hopefully recognizing. Of course, that's gonna play along. This story of this favourable subsidy scheme is also going to play a part, that people think: let me do it. It's multivariate. There are more factors, and this is part of that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u144	But that is a completely different discussion, of the compelling, strangling laws and regulations and European regulations, in order to make it difficult for entrepreneurs in general and also for pig farmers. Whether that's a big conspiracy, The Great Reset, we're not gonna discuss that here, at least I'm not gonna do that right now. That's a whole different discussion. To suggest in your contribution that the reform scheme for pig farming is also part of The Great Reset, because we have to eat less meat, that is fundamentally incorrect. I just wanted to make that right. Or maybe all those other things are right, that's all gonna have to turn out, fine, but I just know that myself, because I was involved from the inside because I was working for the sector back then. I have not been involved in the programme in substance myself, but I have been involved as a communication officer. I just know for a fact I'm sorry, I can't speak English...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u145	And that out of your mouth!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u146	I always blame Mrs Kaag and now I'm going to do it myself. You can't do that. I almost wanted to say "shame on me," but that's not allowed, of course. Seriously, that really isn't true. I would also like Mr Van Houwelingen to stop saying in future statements that that would be a part of it, because that is not true in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u147	But another point: I am going to be very brief, hear that this arrangement and these six pillars, on which this plan is based, are clearly a continuation of the Sustainable Development Goals. That is the objective. Those six pillars are focused on CO reduction, so eat less meat. You acknowledge that. This is also an objective that lies behind this whole plan of the European Union. That's part of the game. That's part of the truth, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u148	I don't forbid you to say that at all. Or "you," through the chairman: I do not forbid Mr Van Houwelingen from saying that either. That's not what I'm getting into. I'm going into this part specifically. That's just really a factual inaccuracies. I just wanted to make it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u149	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Van Houwelingen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about half an hour to answer the very various questions that have been asked. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u150	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the Dutch draft plan for the corona recovery fund. I hope that Members have now taken their place. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u151	Thank you, Madam President. I will begin by explaining the division between the Minister of EZK and myself. There are 72 questions, if we counted correctly. The lion's share is mine. There are five questions that will be answered by the Minister of EZK. I don't know which ones they are, but I think that will crystallize itself. Then let me explain what the cubes are like. I have a brief introduction. Then I will continue with the general questions that have been asked about the European Union and the RRF. The questions on the path and consultations, the consultation, the involvement of the Chamber, the requirements of the HVF Regulation, and the content and requirements will then follow. This is a whole set again. Questions have then been asked about the digital and education sector, among others. There were questions about the railroad, or infrastructure, I'd better say. There is a block about taxes, charges and relief. Then there is another set that we have only mentioned, with an apology to Mr Stoffer, the questions of the SGP, because they were diverse and rich in scope and content. So you have your own block, Mr. Stoffer, I say through the chairman. Then I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u152	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u153	...introducing a few words. As you know, the measures in the first concept of the Dutch Recovery and Resilience Plan contribute to the further modernisation of our economy according to the government's vision. It is also really intended that this happens in other countries. Some Members have already explained this. That is why this is both a key and an opportunity, born of crisis, to see how we can ultimately shape reforms, both in other countries and in the Netherlands, and how economic convergence can take place. We hope, or we see that the plan can promote the green transition and contribute to accelerating the digital transformation. As has often been said, the Netherlands can count on around EUR 4.7 billion from the Recovery and Ferry Facility. The first concept is more comprehensive, so that there is room for emphasis in the final version. European rules require that at least 37% of expenditure in the plan should be climate-related and that 20% should go to digital transformation. We are well above that by 40% and 32% respectively. The plans should also address country-specific recommendations from 2019 and 2020, as has already been recalled. All EU Member States receive them in the framework of the European Semester. This plan addresses the most relevant country-specific recommendations. The technical requirements of the European Commission are considerable, as my officials explained during the recent technical briefing. In the formal dialogue with the Commission, therefore, we will not only focus on the final composition of the plan, but we will also give a great deal of attention to the elaboration and underpinning of the measures. They are technically significant, very specific and demanding, also in terms of the final submission. We are confident that this balanced package will address important investments and reforms. These are measures that also fit our broader cabinet ambitions and form an integral part of the coalition agreement. Based on the input of this Chamber, consultations with stakeholders and dialogue and close cooperation with the European Commission, a final draft plan will be drawn up in the coming period. The aim is and will continue to be to present this plan to your Chamber in June 2022. By 31 August 2022, the Cabinet shall submit the final plan to the European Commission. I say right away: no plan, no money. So we're dealing with a very tight time regime. I therefore hope that we will be able to take the next steps in the debate and in the further processing of your suggestions. I shall now go on to repeat it for those who have just walked in to the questions that have been asked in the wider framework of the RRF. The first question was from Mr Grinwis: what does the Minister think about a transfer union? I'll take a look at the chairman, see if it was Mr Grinwis. I have Mr Van Haga here, but he is not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u154	Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u155	Oh, Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group. Apologies! How do I feel about a transfer union and how can it be prevented? Honestly, I think it's very simple right now. This whole debate is not dealt with in all the European bodies. Mr Ephraim is right when he says that there is a lot of talk at different times about how countries now want to finance, for example, large, possible defence investments and how energy prices could be financed. But the Dutch attitude in all the governments is one of great restraint, not only in the meeting of finance ministers, but also in the Foreign Affairs Council and in the European Council of leaders. You know from other committee debates that we have said: at the moment all the existing instruments must be looked at, at the resources that are still available. They must be exhausted. Furthermore, we have not yet seen any proposal to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u156	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u157	There have been statements of chambers recently made by this Chamber in February. The Minister also replied with a letter. How does she see her words just now in the light of the rapidly rising spreads between Germany and Italy, for example? This has been the recipe in the past for discussions on the sustainability of the euro area and how we should jointly or not finance debt. The majority of the Chamber has made a clear statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u158	Yes. The cabinet naturally joins the majority of the Chamber at those moments. That's a very clear statement. But right now, I'm not going to anticipate potential risks: inflation, the big differences between economies, the pressure on the euro area. Yes, those risks are very real. We will, of course, soon have another meeting of the Finance Ministers: the Ecofin. It may come up there, but no one is talking about a transfer union; that is a big difference. That was your question. Mr Van Dijck's question: can I explain again why the Dutch taxpayer should give Italy 4.5 million? Sorry, that must indeed be 4.5 billion; I made it a little cheaper for Mr Van Dijck. He says that the Italians are richer than the Netherlands and that we would give them a gift of 4.5 billion. Why does another 3.5 billion have to be given away to other Member States? I have already indicated in the introduction that we see the importance of the RRF to facilitate economic convergence and reforms. Clear conditions have been set. The strictness of the conditions and requirements, also technically, and the very clear justification, are mainly enforced by the Netherlands. You can remember these debates, I think, better than I do. I had a different role back then. This played especially in the period 2019-2020. We are still thinking of both reforms and investments in order to repair the economic damage caused by the corona pandemic, in order to speed up this economic resilience. That is ultimately a shared interest. If you look at the position of the Netherlands, at our open economy, a number of Members of Parliament who have been appointed and the earning model, then that strengthening of the European economy is precisely in the interest of the Netherlands. This fund was indeed born under difficult circumstances. They were difficult debates and high demands were made. This fund will hopefully be able to make an important contribution if everything goes well. It is also good that the Netherlands draws its contribution from this. Mr Van Dijck also asked: why do other countries not lend to the capital market or knock on the door of an emergency fund if they need additional funding? As Mr Van Dijck knows, it was not attractive for the Netherlands to borrow. We can borrow it cheaper on the market. So this is indeed a means that is unique and temporary. It's really founded in response to the economic shock. We do so, of course, from a shared interest, from an economic solidarity and also a political weighting. All these debates have been held a long time ago. For other countries - you know them - it is much more difficult and expensive to borrow on the capital market. Mr Alkaya asked: what is the added value of the fund? As far as we are concerned, the added value is, I think, twofold. It is about speeding up post-corona recovery, but it is, as has been shown in the negotiations and final agreement on the fund's design, and as I said earlier, it is also a way of facilitating ideally economic convergence and reforms. I think that the word'mandatory' is a heavy word, but it is an important condition for other European countries. This is also in the interest of the European economy and the Dutch economy. Mr De Jong of D66 asked: should we not be in favour of a new fund for the Ukraine crisis? There is no proposal, but as you know, there is talk at European level of what resources might be available for the reconstruction of Ukraine. There is also another fund for Ukraine, which is more of a humanitarian nature. That is still being discussed at the moment, but I do not think this is the place, in the Restoration and Resilience Fund, to talk about a possible new fund for the Ukraine crisis. The costs are very high, we know that. We see this in the Netherlands and elsewhere. That will have to be discussed seriously, but I would not want to link it to this fund. How do we learn lessons from the HVP for other European challenges? That was also a question from Mr De Jong. This is a unique and temporary instrument; that has always been the approach of the Netherlands. It is true that this is the case, and I would like to point out the letter we sent from the cabinet on the Stability and Growth Pact, which looks at the model of the RRF to perhaps enter a country debt disposal path at national level, but that is absolutely not a race that has been run. I say this only because we mentioned it in the letter and because it is being discussed at European level. What are the classes? What can we benefit from if you look at models or a plan of approach, so to speak? Could Ukraine itself participate in such a fund, so that it gets stronger out of the war? As I have already said, there is talk of a solidarity fund. At the European Council meeting on 23 and 24 March, the European Council decided to work that out. We are working on other initiatives, but we do not think it is wise to link them together. There was a question from Mr Goudswaard and Mr Stoffer, namely: can the Minister indicate how much the Netherlands can pay from 2028 to pay back all subsidies distributed by the EU? An earlier estimate was: 1 billion per year. Mr Goudswaard also asked whether future generations would be saddled with huge debts. Why isn't this in the letter? Thus the words of Mr. Goldsword. The assessment given in the July 2020 European Council report, which decided on that corona repair tool, is still a good assessment. Then it was 1 billion in 2028, going down to 0.8 billion euros in 2058, because the repayment of the loans will also reduce interest payments. Moreover, the repayment of the next generation of EU loans will be part of the negotiations on the next MFF from 2028 onwards. Redemption will therefore have to be paid from savings within the EU budget. Mr Goudswaard also asked whether it was true that European taxes would be introduced to pay back those billions. I just said what the European Council agreed on in July 2020. It is not a question of taxation, it is a question of bases, on which the Member States contribute funds to the European budget. Proposals for own resources have already gone to your Chamber via the so-called BNC sheets. Information agreements have also been made with your Chamber to keep the Chamber well informed of developments on this point. Then Mr Alkaya, Mr Van Dijck and Mr Ephraim asked, of course, in their own words, whether the cabinet is prepared to say that this fund is temporary and exceptional, and that the Netherlands will never support it again. I think we can reaffirm that it is a temporary and exceptional reaction. There are simply no concrete proposals for new permanent or temporary emergency facilities at the moment. But I can hear you. I also know that there is simply a very different assessment and weighting of possible new instruments. I have just said that the cabinet is very reluctant. I cannot rule out anything, but I can, of course, repeat the commitment already made by the previous cabinet that we will inform you in good time and give you an appreciation of whatever proposal might come or be made, and that we will then discuss with your Chamber on the basis of what would then be. But right now, this is surrounded by a lot of dance. Then I'm gonna keep...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u159	Before proceeding, there is a question from Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u160	I'm getting a little uncomfortable about this. On the one hand, it is said that it is temporary and one-off. On the other hand, it's said to be super positive and we need to see how well it works now. There is talk of learning, of applying it in the future and of using its experience. Those two things seem to collide in practice, of course. My fear is that we, as a parliament of the Netherlands Member State, are at some point too late and that the cabinet has already agreed under the heading of 'we have learned lessons from the RRF and we have already agreed to something else'. I'd like to rule that out. Can the Minister also rule out that a fund similar to the RRF is not on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u161	I can't rule out what's not in store. Here's what I said. I deliberately referred to the letter on the SGP. This is part of the model the Commission is talking about, namely a country-specific debt write-off path, similar to how the HVP was drawn up. That wasn't about money. That was about a country that owns debt disposal. So that's the model, but it's not a loan or a grant. That part is being discussed at the moment. But I would like to reiterate the commitment we always make. You will be and you will have to be taken on board in good time whatever proposals are coming from Brussels. Of course, we cannot support this without discussing it with Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u162	That's clear. So, if I understand correctly, the only element in the plan that is now in the process of perhaps re-applying in the future is those country-specific plans that are planned by the Member States themselves, rather than, for example, the model of loans that are being made in exchange for reforms that are being enforced. That element is not mentioned. That's not the point. The cabinet is opposed to this, and it will continue to speak against it in the EU, in Brussels, if that is mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u163	Well, I think Mr. Alkaya is going a little too fast. At the moment, I am not aware that there are concrete proposals to promote this model again. But you also know that this can be seen and read everywhere; you also know from our debates..... that a number of European countries are trying, for example, to get defence investment at European level through extra money or try to finance the energy market differently. There's a lot of talk, but there's nothing in front of it. You know the cabinet position. We are aware of the Chamber; we are very reluctant. But you can't ask me to say that this is never gonna happen anyway, because there's nothing for it now. The promise is: we take you with us; we hear the Chamber and we know what the wishes of the Chamber are. But it is impossible to make a commitment that the Commission will not come forward with a proposal in the future under exceptional circumstances. We can still shoot that. We don't have to agree to it. That's two separate things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u164	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u165	Then there was a question from Mr Van Dijck: why does the Netherlands suddenly get 1.3 billion less and Spain get more? Why are we being punished, dixit Van Dijck, if we do better? The RRF is, of course, an instrument designed to repair the economic damage caused by the pandemic through reforms and investment in the economic system. The allocation of resources has been designed, as Mr Van Dijck knows from previous debates, so that countries with a relatively weaker starting position and most economically affected by the pandemic can receive the largest contribution. We just had a good starting position. The shrinkage was limited, also thanks to many measures taken by the Rutte III cabinet. Think of the so-called "deep bags"; the Netherlands has generously spent. Then it will work out in the logic that we ourselves have forced as a co-negotiator, with all the demands, in such a way. That is a pity, but at the same time I am also thinking of Mr Heinen's words, I do not regret that, in this case, we have this setback for these reasons. Because it's for good reason. It is ultimately a good achievement of the Dutch economy, of Dutch society. Mr Van der Lee asked: isn't the approach taken by the HRP not the approach of the previous cabinet, which was still a brake on the EU? I think we have a good package. I think it is fair to say that this coalition agreement is more pronounced pro-European. It is also stated in the coalition agreement that the cabinet wants to be the frontrunner in certain areas within Europe. We continue and we try to do the right thing for the Netherlands. That's our assessment. Then there were questions from Mr Grinwis: "How does the Minister view the Dutch reforms? Are they sturdy enough? The mortgage interest deduction is still in place. Are we getting away from the European Commission despite the country-specific recommendations?" First of all, I don't think we want to get away with anything. I know that Mr Grinwis himself was closely involved in the negotiations on the coalition agreement. So he may know the answer that lies in his question to me. The cabinet has chosen to see how we can finance budgeted expenditure and plans from the coalition agreement. The abolition of the mortgage interest rate deduction was not part of the coalition agreement. Participating parties in this government think differently. But, of course, we also have great compromises to make. So it's not in the concept of HRP. The Commission knows this. It's also often written about it. It's been pointing the finger for years. We pointed out to the Commission in a technical consultation that the write-off of the mortgage interest rate would be accelerated. So it's not entirely black and white, but it's not being abolished. There are other ambitious reforms in many areas. Think of the green and fiscal measures, but also those relating to the housing market. The pension system was also discussed. We have confidence and I try to say carefully that if we discuss and discuss with the Commission the overall package is a solid package that can withstand the test. We have checked many times, and I have done so myself, when I was in Brussels on a working visit, which is not expected to translate one-in-one hundred percent of the country-specific recommendations. That is not possible for any country. But it's critical mass.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u166	I would like to come back to the agreements in the coalition agreement. I have placed interruptions because there are coalition groups that are calling for a number of adjustments, whether it is about the basic digital provision in the regions where it is not yet in order or more attention to culture. Does the agreement that has been made mean that if an additional project should be added that is not in the existing plans, an additional coverage should be added? Because if that is going to be financed from the fund, then it means that the projects that are not financed from the fund are on the regular budget. So I mean that an additional wish will require additional coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u167	Let me see if I understand Mr Van der Lee's question. All proposals are based on planned measures. They're covered. If I understand correctly, Mr Van der Lee is asking for new ideas, which he would like to present tonight, for example. It is true that there is still a need to find cover for this. I do not know whether, at this stage, a new initiative that has been well developed technically, with a basis and a budget, and-and-and-so, is still feasible at all. But I also invite everyone to find the cover. How do I see the Dutch reforms? Are they sturdy enough? I've already answered that question from Mr Grinwis. I'm sorry. Mr Ephraim said that SMEs were overlooked. That was his concern, I believe. My answer to this would be to have regular discussions with the social partners, including representatives of SMEs, during the consultation process. There has also been a public internet consultation. In addition, a response has been received from Entrepreneurship Netherlands, ONL. Of course, the HVP also includes various investments in, for example, sustainability, housing, education and mobility that also, or sometimes mainly, benefit SMEs. Mr De Jong indicated that we are the last in the EU to submit a plan. This hasn't had any consequences. He asked if I could go into that. Isn't it gonna come to the point where there are consequences? I deliberately ended my introduction with: no plan, no money. That is the ultimate consequence. So we all have a huge interest in it and we are committed to it. I think it is fair to recognise, of course, that last year's very long formation produced a lot of beautiful products and input, and all those consultations along the lines of the formation tables, but of course we would have started the process earlier if there had been a cabinet before; let's face it. Then there is a question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u168	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Dassen van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u169	Let's talk about the consultations. The Minister states that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u170	That's the next block. Then it's about the process, the progress and the involvement of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u171	I have already said something about the consultations, but I will come back to them again with a chronology. That might be a little more complete. Mr De Jong asked: can we assume that municipalities wishing to participate will be brought into the process in good time? Co-governments have been consulted on the concept of the HRP. Shortly after publication of the concept, a technical briefing also took place for them, with co-governments who wanted to join it. This was organised by the umbrella organisations VNG, IPO and UVW. Co-governments have also been invited to provide written input and to participate in several consultation meetings. I'm going to have a conversation with fellow governments myself next week. That was about the process and the consultation. Then I'll come to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u172	Mr. Dassen, your cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u173	It's not that complex. A question from Mr Dassen was: how can it be that social partners, civil society and cultural organisations say that they have not been involved? We may have chosen a different start. During the cabinet formation several stakeholders were consulted extensively. Part of this was also the implementation of the HVP. You know that, for example, the period of informant Hamer has resulted in a huge amount of material contributions and a huge number of discussions with written after-rounds. This has also been the case in the forming period after that. Several interested parties, such as social partners and civil society organisations, have been specifically and specifically consulted on the first concept, including by the various trade ministries, I have been told. There are also other different meetings dedicated to it and the public internet consultation is open. Civil society organisations also play their part in this process. But I think that the starting point is very important, namely that in the long period of the formation iterative the full breadth of the economic and social Netherlands has been consulted and has been able to contribute. This has just been picked up as an input to the coalition agreement, for the proposals with the cover that it fits.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u174	I believe that the starting point has been much earlier, namely in autumn 2020. There was already a look at what promising projects are. At that time, an official survey was launched and certain parties were able to provide input. Follow The Money has submitted Wob requests, because they have investigated them. VNO-NCW, Aedes and other parties who are more likely to find their way to The Hague have been able to discuss this. But the creative and cultural sectors, for example, have not been able to discuss this at all. So I do not understand very well that the Minister says that it was all part of the formation. No, that trajectory started a long time ago. This has led to a gross list of projects of up to 12 billion, and on this basis this plan has been drawn up. It has made it very clear that a very large group of parties has not been consulted. That's what we got back from the field. I am therefore very curious to see how the Minister sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u175	I guess it doesn't rule out one thing. There has been a starting point, but that has not been the end point. As I have just said, a lot of plans and ideas have been submitted at various times, including in the long consultation for formation. Eventually, that's just what's going on right now. I will come back to the cultural sector in particular; I will come back to it in my other block. It is difficult to take everything one-on-one under certain criteria. But extra money has also been made available for the cultural sector, for example in the coalition agreement. I think it is worrying if we treat the HVP as if it is the only fund within which we want to regulate all the ambitions and legitimate priorities that Mr Dassen calls, such as the restoration of the cultural sector. I think it is important to look at, for example, the budget of the Secretary of State for Culture: is that enough, should there be more, should it be otherwise and how do we finance it? Not everything is the Recovery Fund. It's one cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u176	I fully agree with the Minister. What I cannot agree with the Minister alone is: how exactly did this fund come into being, what parties have provided input and have talked about it and on what basis have these decisions been taken? That's what we want to know. We've seen that there's been a gross list for 12 billion. Parties have only been able to talk about this in part. Not all parties have been able to do that, but we can solve that. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to make a commitment that the final Corona and Recovery Plan should be accompanied by a proper, thorough lobbying paragraph so that everyone can be transparent about who has had access to the decision-making process on this Recovery Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u177	I understand the stakes. This morning, I read with interest the own-initiative legislation of Mr Dassen and Mr Omtzigt on restricting access for lobbyists and, in particular, on transparency in it, if I have understood the newspaper article correctly. There are two things going on here, first of all the "lobby" around the HVP. I'd say access, consultations, sharing information. Not everything is a lobby. It is also the submission of wishes, for example by civil society organisations involved. It's also been the subject of a Wob request. There have been public documents shared with your room. I think it is important that we make an overview of everyone who has provided documents: short or long, formation, through ministries. If that is possible, then I would like to make a commitment that we will look again at whether we can make a consolidated overview of this. But a lobby section? Then I must hear from you how you intend to formulate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u178	I am already pleased with the commitment that is being made, because that is what I mean by a lobby section. I would like to know more specifically which proposals were made on the basis of which discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u179	I can't promise that one-on-one. The civil servants are working very hard. This is really drawn to. As with every ministry, people have contacts, are informed and compared. There is no simple process: I have spoken to Mr A or Mrs B and that is why this project is coming through. Ultimately, it is about the technical quality, the justification, the funding possibilities and the relevance in the broader framework of the coalition agreements. And it is about whether it actually meets the criteria set by the European Commission in terms of digitisation, in terms of contribution to climate change or the energy transition. That has nothing to do with lobby. These are priorities that we have been negotiating with ourselves, because we consider them to be important challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u180	Mr. Dassen, last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u181	I think this is a little too easy. This also has to do with lobby, because in the end the proposals will be made with parties who are able to find access to The Hague and this must be transparent. I am going to see how I can shape this promise made by the Minister, whether I should table another motion on it or whether this is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Inge van Dijk. Oh, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u183	I would like to add something to what Mr Dassen said. I think it's a little different. We are all in favour of transparency, but I think it is too easy to pretend that the cabinet is under the total influence of lobby and pressure... that is the suggestion that would be raised, and that is also not enough for the officials in the care they apply. I'd like that to be said right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u184	Mr. Dassen, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u185	That's not at all the suggestion I want to wake up. It is only important that we know how this proposal came about, and that is not a strange question at all. The suggestion that the Minister is now making is that I am looking for something, that something has been done. That's not what I want at all. In my view, what I want is quite clear, namely that transparency is how this proposal has been made and who has spoken about it, and that is, in fact, only normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u186	Sure, but I would say: have brain trust in The Hague as well. I really want to give credit to the officials who have been working on this for some time. Independent considerations are made on the basis of all information. Transparency I share. That is why I have also made a commitment to see if we can provide a consolidated overview. Maybe there's a correlation to deduce from what we know. Much has already been shared with this Chamber, especially in the context of the formation process. All the pieces are available, but I'm making a commitment to add some organization to that. I think that will also help transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In any case, I am pleased to hear that the Minister will be speaking to the VNG and the IPO in the coming week. They have written a letter stating that they still see it as a missed opportunity, a number of topics. They also have a concern. Accountability must be careful and sound. I understand that, but you can see that they're afraid of a lot of administrative burdens they're gonna have and costs they're gonna have to incur. Is that also the subject of discussion and can we also get a feedback on the outcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u189	I have not yet entered into the preparations for the discussion with the IPO and the VNG, but it will undoubtedly occur and we will be able to put it back at an appropriate time. I understand their concern. Of course, this concern also continues to exist among SMEs and other organisations. The regulatory burden, the demands and the fear of ultimately failing to meet the requirements are, I think, real concerns. We need to work on this and we need to help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u190	Two looming mistakes have been made. The cabinet has wrongly decided to wait a year to submit plans. Now we're running out of time. It has wrongly decided not to set up a much more open process and to involve parties, including regional and local authorities and the cultural sector, much earlier. I am maintaining that criticism, but my question is what is the impact of the ongoing consultation. Because in a sense in the response to my previous interruption, the Minister says: yes, add a new project, you need a cover for that and actually there is no time for it. So adding something new, actually just can't be anymore. So what is the meaning of the consultation that is currently taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u191	Of course, we have a 7.7 billion package of measures. There's been a lot of conversations. I think it would be a pity if the impression were created as if we were not consulted and as if we were suddenly coming up with a total surprise package at five to twelve. That is not the case. That's one. I said earlier that on the eve of the missionary period, a number of choices have not yet been made or could be made, including through the long formation period, and that is regrettable. But conversations have taken place throughout that process. Mr Dassen pointed to autumn 2020. Many suggestions and ideas have been put forward through all kinds of channels, and that has been discussed. There have been moments of consultation and consultation. Here in the Chamber, this is the moment when, even after the technical briefing and previous information you have had, we would like to hear from you what priorities you do not see at all and where the balance is. Some of you have already made that very clear. And we still have to go back from the 7.7 billion to 4.5 billion, just to put it this way. This is another moment of weighing. For example, Mr Dassen asked about gender equality. Has it been taken enough? That's important to others of yours, too. So I can partly understand Mr Van der Lee's frustration, but this is a time of consultation. Mr Dassen also asked whether the cabinet could guarantee that the HRP would contribute to gender equality. It is a requirement of the regulation, as Mr Dassen knows, to include a piece in the HRP on the contribution to gender equality. We're just gonna have to meet this, and we want to. The concept of HRP has been presented to organisations that are committed to gender equality and equal opportunities in the Netherlands. Someone picked up input here. There are already a number of measures in the plan that indirectly have a positive impact on gender equality. There are two very specific measures, which are also in line with the digital transformation. I mention AiNed, targets included for support for female researchers. I mention Quantum, a significant contribution to women's network organisation in quantum technology. I realize this sounds very specific. But there's more work. Yes, I also asked if we could mention some more areas that I can follow myself a little bit more. It's very important, we all know that, but so far, I'm afraid, my knowledge extends.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u192	We're talking about the Corona Restoration Fund today. I notice that there is hardly any mention of the real victims of the corona crisis, i.e. retail, catering, consumers. They're all victims. The outcome of the corona crisis also results, among other things, in high inflation, with the delays in transport and increased demand for energy. In other words, what does this Recovery Fund do for the hospitality industry, for retail and for consumers? I can only hear the Minister talking about climate change, about sustainability. But climate is not the victim of corona. And we're talking about the Corona Restoration Fund today. We're not talking about the climate recovery fund. What does this corona recovery fund do for the victims, for the catering industry, retail and consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u193	You know the regulation, of course. It is very specific in terms of expectations and demands for the digital transition and the energy transition. I'll be right back to purchasing power. Mr Van Dijck has asked questions about this. With regard to the current situation, the cabinet has opted for other measures and other means. We have also discussed this on a number of occasions. However, the purpose of the Corona Restoration Fund, or the Restoration and Resilience Fund, is to restore the economy. And with the Recovery Fund, we do want to make reforms and investments possible. That's different from purchasing power repair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u194	So "The Corona Restoration Fund" is just a title that doesn't add up. It's just a misleading title. 'Cause who's supposed to recover from the corona crisis? These are the consumers who are now looking at enormous inflation. And it's the catering business. I've just read in De Telegraaf that half the hospitality industry is up to the lips, through the corona crisis, through the lockdowns, and you name it. Retail's having a really hard time. Many companies are about to go bankrupt and are about to collapse. There's a huge tax debt. There's 20 billion open. These are all consequences of the corona crisis. So you should not be standing here talking about a corona repair fund as if we are dealing with all the victims of the corona crisis, because in that corona repair fund there is hardly any talk about hospitals, about intensive care. Those were all corona-related problems here in the Netherlands. But we are talking about climate, about nitrogen, about sustainability, about windmills. None of that has anything to do with corona. In fact, a windmill doesn't make the economy any better either. In other words, the minister pretends to have a recovery fund, but we just have a climate fund to accelerate the transition. That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u195	No, that's factually incorrect. This is the Recovery and Resilience Fund. The requirements and conditions have been discussed and negotiated in detail with this Chamber. So I do not think it is right to be surprised. This is a different plan. We'll talk to you on Thursday about the phase-out of the corona support packages. The Minister of EZK and myself are present, and perhaps also the Minister for Social Affairs. We are therefore talking about the requests for deferred payment of taxes, and about other arrangements. We are indeed looking at what we can do for Dutch citizens through the closer lens of corona and the impact of corona on Dutch society and economy. Then we will have the debate on what we have done in this area and what may be possible in the future. That's another debate. I would like to come back to Mr Dassen's question: where is the 2% for the cultural and creative sector? As he knows, the EP (European Parliament) called for 2% of the budget to be invested in art and culture in the negotiations on the creation of the HVF. Unfortunately, that is not a formal part of the HRP, of the regulation itself. It's not a formal demand either. Nevertheless, it is the opinion of the Cabinet that indirect investments in culture are being made through the HVP. The subsidy scheme makes it possible to make local cultural institutions, such as theatres and museums, more sustainable, so that cultural institutions can have a sustainable home base for their activities. The formal European conditions, such as climate, digitisation and addressing the country-specific recommendations, make it difficult to reach 2%, but I hear Mr Dassen and also Mr De Jong of D66, of course, well when they talk about the importance of culture and the funding set aside for the cultural sector in the coalition agreement. But there are also times to come back to that in other debates. Mr Dassen asked whether the money could not be used for families affected by energy poverty. I have just said that the country-specific conditions and framework conditions for the Netherlands see that we need to work with the country-specific recommendations. There is a wide range of measures. The direct use of the HVF resources for energy poverty, however important, especially at the moment, is not in line with the objectives of the HVP. At the same time, we are taking account of recent developments. We will try to join European initiatives such as REPowerEU where this fits and within the frameworks we agree with your Chamber. However, the Dutch Recovery and Resilience Plan contains important measures against energy poverty, such as strong investments in green energy, sustainability and sustainability, which ultimately also helps the account as well as the built environment, such as subsidies for hybrid heat pumps. But these are exceptionally difficult times for a lot of people. We are well aware of this. Mr Van Dijck said: "The plan contains 7.7 billion. We only have 4.7 billion. 3 billion is deleted. Is it deleted or is it paid out of the budget?" I have said a number of times that they are measures that are almost ready or ready to be covered. By including the measures in the plan, the Netherlands is once again committed to implementation, we are also financially bound to the milestones and objectives of the measures, and we are committed to achieving all this by August 2026. Mr Van der Lee asked whether I agree that the DNSH criteria should really be followed. Yes. I'll make a commitment to that, too. At this stage, we cannot suddenly see a decline in such a plan or a relaxation of what are important steps and criteria in terms of sustainability and climate. If Mr Van der Lee would like to hear how he will be linked back to that, then I will take it where appropriate in future debates or writing. Mr Alkaya asked whether the investments had been adapted to meet European requirements. As a general rule, measures are not adapted to meet the conditions, but certain elements may not be included because they are sanding with European conditions, such as the "do no significant harm" principle. Mr Nijboer asked what the intention of this package was. Did the Netherlands also intend to do so in relation to other countries? Yes. We agree with the objectives and requirements. The aim of this package is to bring in the 4.7 billion, which we are entitled to at least on paper, and that we can use it smartly. But there may be another question under Mr Nijboer's question. I am looking at Mr Nijboer through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u196	That's entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u197	Well, no. It is not intended as entrapment, absolutely not, but I would like to answer the question that has been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u198	Totally correct. Mr Nijboer, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u199	I think the idea was a little bit to invest hugely in making the economy more sustainable. The PVV is not for that, but that is reasonable. But the idea was also to invest in, for example, international rail traffic. I kind of miss that. That's what colleagues said. I also miss investing in, for example, education, combating social inequality and solving housing shortages. I think it's a little filled with things from the coalition agreement. That's what I was trying to notice. I'd rather have seen that a little more ambitious.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u200	In fact, Mr Nijboer says that he would have liked to see the whole coalition agreement with other ambitions, and I understand that. Of course, the measures contained in the coalition agreement are not ambitious enough from Mr Nijboer's point of view. So I am afraid that we might be a little bit... I do not want to make a circular argument with Mr Nijboer. I respect his position and I understand what he is saying, but I think and I also hope that we will come to terms with each other on a great many issues, including with other ministers, precisely about capability inequality in the Netherlands. You can when the ibo is ready. This cabinet has also invested, as you know, in higher education, but also in MBO. This has been done through many measures. As I said earlier, not everything needs to be regulated through this fund. It's only 5% in the end. It is a modest amount and our ambitions are much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u201	The joke is, of course, that the idea was... there are cabinets all over Europe, huh? The minister's predecessor said: those Italians really must, and we are also forcing them to take steps that they would not otherwise have taken. There are really things the Chamber can best agree on. Get one of those international rail lines. Then you're nowhere with five billion. While if you choose at that point to make Berlin and Hamburg accessible; I understand that. That's not really a good idea. It is just a bit of the housing funds that were already there, the investments that would have already been made, the sustainability and climate funds; we are just going to fill up some of them and then we don't have to cover it elsewhere. That's kind of what I expected and hoped for. Why didn't that happen? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u202	I do not want to go back to an earlier description of the process, as it started before my time, but there is of course already a rich path for this. It is true that the coalition parties consider it wise to submit precisely the measures that are there and which were covered in order to have the highest success rate. Because it's just not a run race with these kinds of proposals. I accept that Mr Nijboer sees this differently. I think, on the contrary, that the coalition agreement with the choices made is very ambitious. The means, the instrument of the HVF, is a catalyzing factor in that, but no more than that. Ultimately, we also have relatively little money in relation to other countries. Mr Van Dijck asked what the cost of implementing the plan was. The cost of implementation is still unclear at the moment. We want to keep implementation costs, administrative burdens, as low as possible. I suddenly realize that Mr Van Dijck has also asked how big or small the team that is currently working on this issue in Finance. I will come back to that in the second term, because I am not ready for that. Or perhaps it will be delivered through the civil servants for some time to come. Then there was a question from Mr Heinen: is there, on balance, a real setback, as we claim less resources than initially expected, or is it purely accounting? The distribution of resources within the Union has been determined on the basis of a distribution key. Population, prosperity and unemployment played an important role in this, as you know. 30% of the funds were agreed to include the economic damage caused by the pandemic. In an earlier estimate, we were estimated at EUR 5.96 billion, but the economy did better. That was your question. The expected contribution will thus be 4.7 billion as it stands. That is indeed a setback. It is incorporated into the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u203	Of course it has to be incorporated into the budget. That's obvious. But apart from the whole framework system: that we have less income from that fund is a result of the higher level of prosperity. There are more revenues behind that, which we see again on the revenue side of the government. On balance, if you really look at the treasury and the sovereign debt, it is a much smaller setback than accounting has to be processed. That was my point. We often pretend to have a setback from Europe, while forgetting that it is actually a result of a huge success that we have, namely higher economic growth and therefore more revenue. That was my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u204	Yes, correct. I fully agree with that. I think I've named that myself before. I said before: this is a setback that you don't actually grieve for, because it's a result of relative success. Mr Van der Lee asked on the basis of which criteria the selection will take place. I've already told you what our starting position is. We're still trying to get your direction from you here. We've heard some suggestions. A round of consultations is also taking place. Much of the selection will de facto take place in the final round on the basis of a rejection or failure to comply with the technical review by the committee. We are already seeing some of the proposals being challenged.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u205	Actually, that's a lot of words to say that the ultimate criterion is to bring in 4.7 billion. All projects continue. They are covered from somewhere, from the fund or from the budget. The cabinet is only going to look at the maximum opportunity to bring in that 4.7 billion. I guess that's the summary, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u206	Well, it's not "money-seeking project." That is not what Mr Van der Lee means to say. But you're right if I can rephrase it like this. We've got proposals. We think it's important. They're from the coalition agreement and they're already covered. On the basis of the criteria set by the committee and the technical review, we want to see what fits within that 4.7 billion. You're asking if we have a list in there. Yes. We have the percentages of digitization and the energy transition. That's all right: do no significant harm. But it's not all totally scientific, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u207	Shortly after the start note we received a letter with the disappointment: from 5.8 billion to 4.7 billion. That letter also stated that 30 June next, the final distribution becomes clear. Is there also the risk that the amount, the 4.7 billion, will be even lower, because afterward economic growth was even better in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u208	No. The information we have is that it is no longer being modified. Because the state of play for the economy of 2020 and 2021 is closed. Then I have an immediate answer to Mr Van Dijck's question. How big is the team working on the HVP? The HRP programme management consists of 9.5 fte. This is similar to countries like Belgium, Austria and Sweden. Then there was a question, or perhaps a suggestion, of Mr Van der Lee. He asked if it was the intention of the Chamber to table motions on individual projects. It's up to you. If you would like to give accents, we will welcome them. Mrs Van Dijk asked why the input for the plan on behalf of Parliament was so weakly taken up by the cabinet, that is what Mrs Van Dijk said? How much room is there for change? I have actually already appointed the room for change in my debate with Mr Van der Lee. I read again that the official inventory with promising already budgeted measures was shared with your Chamber by my predecessor on 1 November 2021, as well as all the pieces that were on the table for formation at that time. There was also a committee debate on 17 November last year. Of course, we are a long time ahead, but there is also a preliminary route. Then I would like to answer a question from Mr Grinwis about the railway construction projects, such as the Lely line. He asked if they could come back to the plan; perhaps that was a comment from Mr Nijboer. It was also about flying, so mobility. Why doesn't railroad construction, like the Lely line, come back into the plan? In the draft plan, the measure European Rail Traffic Management System ( ERTMS) is referred to as "the European Rail Traffic Management System'. This replaces the current analogue train protection system with the European digital standard. We are of course interested in rail investment, which has already been appointed by some of you in view of the fact that they contribute to the 37% climate investment required. ERTMS is particularly interesting, given the digital component that contributes to the 20% factor for digital investment and its European character. Mr Nijboer asked about the flight discussion and international train traffic in the Netherlands. He says, "That is hopelessly behind. Why isn't such a plan in it?" Mr Nijboer just mentioned that. We have therefore chosen to include the ERTMS. This is also a measure that is important for digitaler rail traffic and making rail traffic more future-proof. But I can hear what Mr Nijboer is saying. Without track you can do digitally what you want, but there is still a railway line to be built. I'll take that. Next to Mrs Van Dijk's broader question on digital and education: are funds from the fund going to technical education? Strengthening the digital skills of the future Dutch workforce is indeed part of the measures contained in this draft plan. A few measures will ensure that this is done. It's called "devices and internet connection." I don't quite know why it's Dutch and English, but okay. Students are equipped with digital devices and AiNed, as I have just mentioned. To this end, the capacity of training on artificial intelligence is increased. I will come back to Mr Nijboer's question as to why only the National Education Lab is being looked at. The concept focuses more on education, such as measures to combat learning loss due to school closures during the corona pandemic. This may also reflect Mr Van Dijck's comments. These measures contribute, in the spirit of the HVF, to a resilient education during and after the corona pandemic. But I repeat what I said earlier: this cabinet is doing a lot more investment in education. Mr Van Dijck had a number of questions about taxes and purchasing power. Mr Alkaya had questions about the VAT rate, about the flight tax and another question. I would like to start with Mr Alkaya: has it been considered that the VAT rate for public transport should be set at 0%, as provided for in the VAT Directive? The Secretary of State for Taxation and Tax has promised your Chamber that he will come forward with a letter on how to deal with the VAT tariff directive. You'll get this letter in a few weeks. So I cannot anticipate that, but I hope you will be able to wait for this. I also know that you have asked Parliament questions on this issue. You also asked if the Cabinet was prepared to make the flight tax fairer by also allowing transferrs to pay a higher tax under this plan. This isn't the cabinet's plan. In the current design of the flight tax, the Netherlands, like other countries with a tax on flights, has excluded switching agents, partly because otherwise Dutch airports would have a significant competitive disadvantage compared to foreign airports. Are we willing to investigate whether every Dutchman can fly once a year without a flight tax? I have been advised that the non-taxation of the first flight or the higher taxation of subsequent flights is not feasible, because the flight tax is a tax paid by airports per flight movement. There is no record of passengers and how often they fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u209	How fair does the Minister of Finance consider it, especially in the light of this plan, that a quarter of travellers at Schiphol Airport who cause nuisance, global warming and environmental pollution should not pay such a tax and that people in the area who want to go on holiday once a year should pay the same tax? This plan should focus on promoting sustainability, combating global warming and promoting a fairer economy. If this is really impossible, I think we should look for ways to dress it more fairly, but I have not yet seen an investigation into it. Is the Minister prepared to at least investigate this because this is so unjust?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u210	This one I really want to have seen with the Secretary of State for Taxation. He just needs to take a good look at this. As far as the question of whether this is fair is concerned, I do not have enough data. I don't know if whoever gets on a plane and makes the switch doesn't pay a flight tax when boarding for the flight that that person takes. Indeed, this requires more study and more insight. The use of a flight tax for both sustainability and discouragement of air traffic and, hopefully, making it cheaper, for example, rail traffic and other means of transport are all important in an integrated package, but you are asking me about technical matters. I would like to put this question to the Secretary of State for Taxation. I'll ask him if there's any information and any possible weighting in this. I understand the intention behind the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u211	Thank you, and then the Secretary of State will return to the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u212	I'm gonna let him give it his own shape. I'm sure he'll have another debate soon, including the other motion. The letter is coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u213	Of course, we do not escape to talk about the content of the plan, because it is one-on-one the plans of the coalition agreement. So when we have a debate on the plan, we automatically get to those substantive points. One of them is the flight tax. So if the Minister states that she would like to have it examined, I am pleased with it, precisely because she indicated that she would welcome it if the Chamber wanted to highlight the plan we are talking about today. Those were her literal words. I'm saying I think it's unfair, and she says she wants it investigated. Then I wonder if we can approve the plan in this way. Then we'll have to come up with a proposal today, won't we? Then I can't wait to change the content so we can change this plan? Otherwise we will not have to have this whole debate, because then we will have the debate twice every time: once when it comes to content and a second time when we talk about this recovery plan. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u214	No, but as Mr Alkaya also knows, I have also said it a few times now, I do not think that such suggestions are being examined so quickly. That's one. And if these are good and well-founded ideas, there are other times in the year when this can still be decided and discussed. Not everything we do as a cabinet now depends on this plan. There's very little time. I do not know if the Secretary of State is able to conduct a careful study and to organise a comparison with other countries, a weighting and an exchange. We do have a hard deadline. I really would not want to make the totality of this plan depend on a study which has yet to be planned and carried out and on which I have not yet heard from anyone else. I am making this as a commitment to Mr Alkaya, but it must not get in the way of the further development of the HVP. There are other ways of achieving the same and politically agreeing with the cabinet should there be a good outcome. This can also be done later in the year on the basis of the dates. I know Mr. Alkaya as someone who also cares about data and studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u215	Finally. That makes the debate on this plan so difficult. If we can only talk about accents and if this is so far-reaching that we cannot take a decision today to include it in the plan or to discuss it with the Commission, because it requires a study... Look, we have not caused that delay. We have not ensured that these coalition negotiations have lasted so long. We would have liked to have had this conversation earlier, so that we could have adjusted this plan. I would therefore like at least the undertaking that when we submit this plan, in any way whatsoever, it will not be at the expense of our freedom to put any more emphasis on those issues contained in the plan. The subjects contained in the plan can therefore be changed at the time they are submitted to the Commission if this Chamber so requests. It cannot be that we cannot decide on it now and that it will soon be too late because the Commission has already approved it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u216	Well, it's not so much about approval. It is more about the fact that the Commission cannot approve it if it is not properly substantiated and does not fit in with the existing criteria. That would be more my concern. I could make a very easy commitment, but I do not want to do that by saying 'yes, you do it above all' in the knowledge that it is probably not going to pass the Commission's test. Of course, we don't want to work like this with each other. So I think there might still be moments. I make a promise that I will ask the Secretary of State if he can let us know in the short term what the options are. Maybe there's already data or data that I or the Minister of IenW don't know about. I will ask him if there is room left, but then we must also assume that we cannot force it on the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u217	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u218	Then there was a comment from Mr Van Dijck. All taxes are getting higher; where is the government purchasing power plan? Can taxes be reduced? Of course, we had a debate on purchasing power a few weeks ago, with the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Poverty Policy and Participation and myself. We then discussed in detail the reduction of charges and the packages introduced by the cabinet. We are still talking about the implementation of the 3 billion in relief provided for in the coalition agreement. The exact details are determined in the run-up to Prinsjesdag. Of course, I share your concern about the development of purchasing power as a result of inflation, particularly for vulnerable households. We also heard again this morning how it affects the low and middle incomes. However, there are no plans at the moment, and certainly not through the HVP, for additional burden relief measures. Then I come to the block of Mr Stoffer of the SGP. You asked: what about the emergency braking procedure, is it already operational and are there any signs that the emergency brake will be used, for example by the Netherlands? As you know, the emergency braking procedure has been requested by the Netherlands in particular as a method when it is considered that there are serious deviations as regards the achievement of milestones and targets. Six requests for payment of HVP funds have currently been submitted to the EFC. So far, no Member State, not even the Netherlands, has felt obliged to use the emergency braking procedure. Hopefully that's good news, but we're still early in implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u219	Clear answer, thank you for that. Can I also conclude from this that the procedure is simply clear, so it is clear how we will apply it if we have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u220	That is my understanding, but I am unable to give a technical explanation of all the steps now. But there is, certainly in the Netherlands but also in other countries, political will to use the procedure when it is demonstrably necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u221	I understand that it is not possible now and it is not necessary technically, but then my specific question is whether the Minister could inform us of what this procedure looks like. As far as I am concerned, this can be done in writing after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u222	Yes. That is a simple commitment. Thank you. Mr Stoffer also asked: "Although all plans are already part of the coalition agreement, we will get the money when it is approved. What if the plans aren't approved or we only get part of the money?" The worst case scenario is: no plan has been approved, so no money. Then we will have to finance this ourselves in a different way, because they are already covered measures. But I'd rather not. I assume that we, as the Netherlands, as we have been demanding towards other countries, will also meet our own test. Mr Stoffer also asked: "The draft plan contains all kinds of reforms. What exactly are we imposing on ourselves? What can the EU demand from us?" We commit ourselves to the implementation of the reforms that are in place. It is true that receiving available resources is also dependent on the progress we are making on these reforms. That is what we wanted from other countries; we did not just want to transfer money and then conclude afterwards that the investments were not carried out. So yes, the Commission can demand that we demonstrate that we have implemented the milestones and targets. We got what we asked for. Can the Minister promise that the Chamber will be kept proactively informed of all the arrangements made by the Cabinet? Yes, I say to Mr Stoffer and this Chamber. He also asked: "Milestones and objectives can limit the participation of the Chamber. How can the Court gain more insight and participation in the milestones and objectives?" The underlying idea behind the milestones and the objectives of the plan was, of course, to ensure that the Member States really get to work. We will continue to actively involve the Chamber in the implementation of the final plan. After that, milestones and targets cannot be changed. I do not yet have a conception, I say to Mr Stoffer, of how it would work if countries did indeed call the bell and say: we are slowing down. I will also take this into account in the letter, to explain what scenarios are being worked on, because, like life, not everything is going as planned. So I can imagine that. What other mitigating frameworks has the Commission considered? Mr Van Houwelingen of the Forum for Democracy asked: what are the measures of the HVP still to do with corona? I think I've said this before. It's about a Recovery and Ferry Facility. But there are also measures within our proposal that have to do with corona. I would like to mention the expansion of intensive care capacity, temporary additional human capacity for care in crisis time, which is also a great wish within this Chamber, and, of course, measures to combat learning loss. Mrs. Van Dijk asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u223	Mr Van Houwelingen...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u224	Oh, sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u225	Sorry to scare you. Mr Van Houwelingen has resigned because of circumstances. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u226	Thank you. But I was also finished with Mr Van Houwelingen's question, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u227	I thought it would be nice to tell you why he's not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u228	Thank you. Sorry, other experiences. How are the BES and CAS islands involved? A broad consultation process has been established and the consultation is also open to the BES islands and the CAS countries. The VNG has also shown this commitment. The municipalities of the regions of Aruba and Curaçao and the special municipalities of Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius are also part of the VNG. The CDA is curious to see what SMEs are going to notice about these investments in concrete terms. Mrs. Van Dijk asked for that. The final HVP will, as required, contain a chapter analysing the broader macroeconomic impact of the measures included. This is being investigated by independent parties. Several of the measures included in sustainability, housing, education and mobility I have already said that SMEs benefit. Good examples are Lifelong Learning and provide skilled staff for SMEs. Quantum is coming back and there are many other examples. Mr Stoffer also asked about Dutch households and SMEs. I've named this for the most part generically. Now I come to a number of questions from Mrs Van der Plas. She is asking us about some content, I must confess, and my fellow Minister, too, I believe. We have done our best to obtain the answers through fellow ministries, but I hope that Mrs van der Plas will accept some of the referrals to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. In finance, we deal with a lot of things, but this is just a bridge too far. The question was: why is the claim of the RIVM that nitrogen would come from the sea not corrected by the Minister? I assume Mrs Van der Plas is referring to the Minister of Agriculture when RIVM has now acknowledged that this was a measurement error? For the record, Mrs van der Plas' question deals technically with the problem of nitrogen and focuses on a claim from RIVM. I will formally ask whether the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality can give a brief written statement or answer to this, a yes or no about a correction, but I have no idea. Mrs Van der Plas also asked whether there was any monitoring, whether this was done by the TBO itself or whether it was carried out externally. The requirements of the HVF Regulation itself call for careful monitoring of the progress of measures. We must, of course, also show ourselves that we meet the milestones and objectives. The trade departments have a very independent, very important role to play here. They ultimately own the measures. Its implementation is also reflected in their budget. How this monitoring will take place is a choice of the specialised departments. It is also up to your colleagues in the Chamber to ask in their committee debates when it has been accepted how this will take place per ministry. Mrs van der Plas then asked what measures are referred to in the Nature Programme as 'hydrological measures', and whether these measures include the construction of wet natural areas. With the increase in avian flu, it is undesirable to add nature reserves, said Mrs Van der Plas. The Nature Programme is part of the nitrogen structural approach and focuses on system restoration in and around the nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites. This means that measures must also be taken in the vicinity of those areas. For the other technical details that Mrs van der Plas undoubtedly wants to hear, I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality to include this information in the same letter in reply to Mrs van der Plas. Some of the resources go to ground-raising. Whose land is that? TBOs? As I said, the departments of the trade have the responsibility to monitor implementation, which is what we decided as a cabinet. They are therefore responsible for this. I therefore take this question with me for the Minister of LNV. The same applies to the question of whether the TBOs need an increase in their management burden. Those were Mrs van der Plas' questions. All in one letter, I'd like to suggest. Then she gets the answers she's entitled to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u229	Thank you for the answers. Of course it's fine if that goes in one letter. I also had another question, if you don't mind. Then I don't respond so much to this, because that's fine. I also had something about reducing the self-employed deduction ofzzp'ers to make false constructions less attractive. In the case of the premium affair, we have seen that a relatively small group is committing fraud and that something is being rigged up completely. To put it briefly: that is what ultimately created the surcharge scandal. I'm a little afraid that's gonna happen here, too. It might be a small group ofzzp'ers taking advantage of it. Then something is done about the self-employed deduction. And then the good guys are actually the victims of that. It sounds to me like a hundred hooligans amok in a stadium and then the football stadium closes. That would be weird, too. We don't. I would like to ask the Minister whether this policy can be put on hold, first of all to investigate how many people are doing these phony constructions and whether it is relevant to put something like that on the table. That can be answered in second installment, because it comes a bit out of the blue. That was the third time! Yeah, it's kind of hard. I get it. After a year I'll find out, Minister. But that was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u230	I just heard from the Minister of EZK that she can answer it. If not, we'll do it in the second term, but there'll be an answer. Thank you very much. Then there were two questions from Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals. Is it true that the plan is financed from the regular budgets? Is it true that choices still have to be made? Can you promise that climate and biodiversity plans will not suffer? I think I've named it before, but the plan is pre-financed from the regular budgets. The financial coverage can take place from the facility, if the plan is approved. The final selection is thus also based on technical criteria set out in the Regulation. I think that we will also return to Mr Van der Lee's question in order to meet the requirement not to seriously undermine the six environmental objectives. As far as I'm concerned, it really needs to be out of the question. The cabinet must therefore also make a full effort to meet these requirements and to ensure that climate and biodiversity plans are implemented. Then the final question was: with the use of new money for old policy, the cabinet is behind the facts. Maybe that's more of a comment. Is the Cabinet ruling or accounting? We've been at it for four months. We hope that at the end of this cabinet ride we can demonstrate that we have ruled, responded and also anticipated. I hope this is a good start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u231	It's good to hear that there's a government going on. That's always good to hear. Can the Minister at least acknowledge that we are dealing here with a few shifts from the national budget towards the European budget, that we are not responding to the latest developments and that there are opportunities that we are not taking advantage of? For example, look at energy saving. It fits perfectly within the framework of the cabinet, of the government agreement, to do more about it now, especially as a result of what is happening in Ukraine. That's what I miss about these plans. We have a chance to submit additional plans. Does the Minister recognise that we are not doing so now and that we are focusing on plans from a government agreement which was concluded a few months ago and which does not reflect the current situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u232	I think there's a few things going on here. It's not a question of recognition. We have already said that we have decided to submit existing and covered measures, because you need to be very firmly in place for an opportunity to meet the very high technical requirements of the Commission. The situation in Ukraine, the geopolitical shifts and the need, for many reasons, to accelerate that energy transition, not only from a climate change perspective, do not mean that we can now come up with a lot of new, unfinished proposals from one day to the next. However, through the climate fund and through the other actions of other trade ministers, it is being worked on, including by the Minister of EZK, to respond to the current need and to be ready for the future, but we do so in other ways. I would like to reiterate that this fund, with the modest sums that it is in the end 4.7 billion ECU, is not a panacea for all the ailments; far from it. It is an additional possibility, in which we, as a cabinet, must stand up to the challenge of climate change, the task of nitrogen and the whole sustainability of the economy. That is also the coalition agreement. Then it doesn't matter that the plans are a few months old. They're equally relevant, I think, just because they're focused on the future. So I'm looking at that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u233	But the plans of the coalition agreement are not specifically aimed at recovery after corona. We must now carry out fundamental reforms. We can take advantage of the opportunities we have to carry out reforms now. They are now based on old plans from the coalition agreement. That's not very ambitious, is it? And with the only difference that ultimately we do not decide on the conditions for these plans, but that the European Commission decides on those conditions. So in fact, we're also giving power out of our hands. That's not very ambitious, is it? I also felt that the democratic decision-making process here was inadequate. Surely it is a far too little ambitious plan that we have here, with a democratic deficit?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u234	We are members of the European Union. We ourselves fought for these criteria in good consultation and with the support of this Parliament. It is a Recovery and Resilience Plan, the objectives of which are very clear. That takes care. Most countries have taken quite a while. I cannot, with all due respect, say that a cabinet that is just four months old is coming up with old plans, while the coalition agreement, the coalition agreement, was not concluded until 8 December. That's not really old. But we have lost quite some time because of the long formation, and I find that regrettable. But they're not old plans. They are relevant, because they are part of a recently concluded coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u235	Thank you. You're out of interruptions, Mr. Dassen. You had an extra one, too. Luckily, you still have a second term. Mr Van Dijck has one more, so I would ask the Minister of Finance to return. Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u236	I have one last question. We all know they're going to retire in France at 62 years. We all know that all of southern Europe has a major problem with its pension systems. They're retiring early and they don't have a piggy bank. They don't have a giant piggy bank like the Netherlands does. When it comes to the strength of those economies for the future, it would be good if they did something about those pension systems. My question is this. France receives 37 billion in donations from that Recovery Fund. What is the demand for France to do about this 62-year retirement age? Because I don't see it in the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u237	I don't have the French plan in mind. I do not know what the country-specific recommendations for France are at present. I'm gonna have to compare it. I can explain that in the second term, but I need some official information first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u238	The Minister agrees with me that this is the best time to make certain demands on those countries, to say: listen, you get 37 billion, but then 62 years of retirement is no longer of this time. The same applies to Italy. Italy will receive 200 billion. Spain also receives 80 billion in donations. In other words, the Netherlands, as a good boy in the classroom, is transforming its whole pension system. In our view, this was not necessary at all, but we are reforming everything that Brussels is asking for, but those countries are getting a lot of money and they are actually doing nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u239	I do not think Mr Koolmees had the impression that he was doing the reform of the pension system on behalf of Brussels. But I think that's a difference of appreciation. What I said was: I do not know what the French country-specific recommendations are and what the French proposal itself contains. The main issue was and is the Dutch attitude that reforms and investments should be relevant reforms that have long been over time and should be part of a plan. That's a deal too. But I'd like to come back with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u240	Thank you. Then I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for her comprehensive reply. I give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few questions have been asked to my address. I'll walk them off for a while. First of all, Mrs Van Dijk's question. It's a sympathetic thought. Indeed, I have read the article that says that in America free internet is offered to the poor in society. Perhaps it would be a good idea to refer to the coalition agreement. We have literally included that we are pursuing robust, super fast and safe internet in all parts of the country. Right now, the Ministry is investigating to see what that means. It seems an easy task in a country like the Netherlands, but it is disappointing in the outlying areas. A letter will be sent to your Chamber shortly. So that's what we're investigating right now. But I would also like to see whether your suggestion can also be included in those solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u242	Mrs Van Dijk has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u243	I know that part of the coalition agreement, and I know that research. In my view, I tabled a motion last March requesting that this be examined. Honestly, I'm glad that investigation is finally coming. I would very much appreciate it if we could indeed look at what is needed for such a proposal as has been made in America. What is needed to make this possible in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u244	I will. I'll take it with me. It's just two different angles. One is really about the coverage and the other is about how you support people who have little resources to pay good internet. So it's two things. But I will take them into the investigation that Mrs Van Dijk is asking for. Then there was Mr Stoffer's question about what SMEs are going to notice about the plan. Some of them have already been answered by the Minister of Finance. It has already indicated that in some parts of the plan that are now included there is also room for SMEs, but it is not very widely distributed. I think you have a point to make. At least it's very specific; I need to put it better. It is about accelerating artificial intelligence and promoting education and talent programs. Quantum is all about specific knowledge. For hybrid heat pumps, to mention a different subject, and for example for solar boilers, SMEs can make direct use of the subsidy covered by the plan. It is also true, of course, that the coalition agreement has made a much wider reference to the position of SMEs and that other debates are also taking place on this issue. Hopefully, reinforcement will be generated for innovation and sustainability, for example. There are many subsidies, but the question is: are they enough to help SMEs take those steps? So we're looking at that critically. We want to do it as best we can. Then I come to Mrs van der Plas' questions, first of all about... Now she's not here; that's sad. The first question was about thezzp'ers. I know they're at SZW investigating the position ofzzp'ers. I will pass on Mrs van der Plas' question to the fellow minister. Then there were a few questions from Mrs Van der Plas. I'm so sorry she's not here right now. That's what I've been waiting for all night. I guess I'll leave the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u245	I imagine her support is listening. I'd almost say, could someone get Mrs. Van der Plas? It's okay to do the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u246	Yes, shall I give the answers for the Acts? That might be nice. Actually, I kind of like that myself. Among other things, the plan would lead to an increase in electric vehicles and to the question of whether the power grid can cope with the increase in electric vehicles. It is true that there is an increasing level of network cramping, but there is still room for households and small consumers. This means that for people who want to charge a car at home there is, in principle, enough room. It is true that the network operators in their expansion plans take due account of the increase in electric driving and transport in the future. We know the possibilities are not limitless. My colleague, the Minister for Climate and Energy, is looking at this. Mrs van der Plas' question went a little further, namely about the plans we have to promote the electricity grid. Can we take a central role in this? The Minister for Climate and Energy draws up a National Energy System Programme to outline what energy system we need by 2050 and what actions are needed in the areas of infrastructure, standardisation or stimulation and what the planning should be. In addition, we have a Programme Energy Main Structures. In doing so, we will ensure that the infrastructure can be properly integrated in a spatial manner. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions that concern me. Pretty good, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u247	That is what we have come to the end of the first term. I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy for her reply. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the second term of office. I invite Mr Dassen to make his contribution. It's a bit of a sad ending, so... Five questions, but whoever asked them isn't in the room. But I'm sure the support is listening, so that's gonna be fine. I give the floor to Mr Dassen van Volt, the applicant for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the directors, in particular to the Minister of EZK. It's nice that she was here today after all. Thank you for that. Thank you also to the Minister for Finance for the commitment. I was wondering if we could also get in a letter what exactly is the effect of the commitment so that we can see what that means. I see the Minister nodding, so that's very nice. I have two short questions. We must make mandatory use of an audit and control system to ensure efficient use of the RRF. This must also be done if we are to be able to see which organisations are receiving the funds. The European Commission has set up the ARACHNE system for this purpose. I wonder if the Netherlands will use this as well. I wonder if the final beneficiaries will be revealed, as is often done with other funds. That seems to me to be a good thing for transparency. Mr. Chairman. I am very sorry that as a Chamber we actually have very little control over what exactly is in the Recovery Fund; hence the next short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the first Dutch concept corona recovery plan does not include measures to strengthen the cultural and creative sector;]] [[Whereas the European Parliament has adopted a motion calling for at least 2% of RRF funds to be invested in the cultural and creative sectors;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the cultural and creative sectors, to come forward with plans to further invest 2% of the RRF budget available to the Netherlands in the cultural and creative sectors, in addition to the existing coalition agreement plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dassen and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1843]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the rulers. It is a little mustard after the meal, but I shall leave that feeling to this debate. All plans have been made. The only question is how it's covered. We need to make sure that this 4.7 billion is brought in. I support Mr Dassen's motion, which I have co-signed. Mr Nijboer is also going to table a motion. What I really regret is that I also think that a missed opportunity is that at the time it was chosen not to make a plan right away and to do so in consultation with neighbouring countries. For example, it is important for Germany to invest in international rail infrastructure, the Lely line. For example, if you had consulted with Germany at the early stage, you could have had some kind of leverage function. We have not taken advantage of all these opportunities; we have let them go. I regret that. The Minister also sketches an image that has actually been a kind of consultation in the formation, including with VNG. That's really not their experience. However, I have to say to the debate that the consultation that is currently taking place does not really have any significant influence at all. That consultation may at most affect the exact package you submit, but that does not alter the fact that the projects that have been appointed are financed by our own money or not. I'm sorry to hear that. I do welcome the commitment made on the point that the Netherlands will see to it that the "do no significant harm" test really remains intact. The Minister has also promised to keep us informed. I'll hold her to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u250	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Alkaya, SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the directors for answering our questions. This is the first time that we, as a Dutch Parliament, have discussed this plan. We would already be too late to make significant changes to the plan. In this way, there is a real threat of democratic erosion. That's not good. The speakers before me have also drawn attention to this. It's definitely mustard after dinner. We are now told that it is actually too late, because we have to meet a deadline. Soon we will be discussing the content, for example the flight tax. It hasn't been introduced yet, so we need to talk about that. The plan has already been submitted to the European Commission. Then you get the argument that it has already been submitted and that there is already an agreement. So you're late again. This is how European processes always work. You're either early or late, but never on time. I do not think we should want this democratic erosion. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement and the concept of the Restel- and Resilience Plan include a triple flight tax;]] [[noting that this tax will not apply to transfer passengers;]] [[Whereas a disproportionate proportion of flights from Dutch airports are caused by commercial multi-pilots and transit passengers;]] [[considers that the negative impact of the Schiphol hub function on the living and living environment should be reduced;]] [[considers that flights from Dutch airports should be better adapted to the needs and interests of the area;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the flight tax also to transfer tickets and also to examine whether and, if so, how passengers from the Netherlands can be exempted from the flight tax for the first flight each year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1844]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for answering the questions put. The PvdA would have liked to see some more ambitious proposals made on living, education, combating inequality and tackling wealth inequality. Anyway, we switched that. I would like to call on the cabinet not to choose in the selection, even if it is a little coat pocket, which I agree with Mr Grinwis, to clean up pig farms, because that has absolutely nothing to do with the objectives of the European fund. So really try to fund some projects there that will strengthen the economy sustainably and socially. Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. I think even the PVV is going to vote for that, because Mr Van Dijck spent seven and a half hours on the train. He doesn't want to go through that anymore, that's how I understood. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that international train connections from the Netherlands are not of the twenty-first century (the journey The Hague-Hamburg takes, for example, six hours and the journey to Berlin even seven hours);]] [[Whereas ambitious proposals to significantly improve international train connections are lacking;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to include proposals in the Recovery and Ferry Plan to invest heavily in faster international rail transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Teunissen, Mr Alkaya and Mr Dassen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1845]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u253	I have just looked up that of the trip The Hague-Hamburg and that of the trip to Berlin I experienced myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u254	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u255	Thank you, Mr President. That seven o'clock was a one-way ticket. You'd better return what we did. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the ministers. It's called the Corona Restoration Fund. Too bad that the real victims of the coronapandemic, such as SMEs and the catering industry, are not or are hardly being addressed. Perhaps I could have saved that interruption for the Minister of EZK, so here we are. Half of the hospitality is water to the lips. That's the latest. But, of course, think of the families as well. It looks more like a Timmerman Fund than a corona recovery fund. For the families, the water is up to the lips. We saw inflation above 10%, already for the third month. The PVV therefore sees a disaster when it comes to poverty and bankruptcy. So if you still want to spend 4.7 billion, give it to relief. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make full use of the EUR 4.7 billion from the Recovery and Resilience Plan to reduce the burden on citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1846]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u257	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Inge van Dijk, CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions. As the Minister indicated, not everything we do depends on this plan. For us, digital access and, above all, equal opportunities are very important. Of course, I know that the coalition agreement states that the Netherlands wants to be the EU's digital hub. Also think about getting robust, fast and secure internet throughout the Netherlands. I know that ambition lies there. I'm just worried if we can achieve that. So I'll just keep asking about that. It is also stated in the coalition agreement that digitalism is to be targeted; I know that too. But I was just hoping to hear a little more about that today. Fortunately, I am also a participant in the debate of the committee-telecom, so I can come back to it in detail. I certainly will. I am pleased with the commitment I have just made to look at the American initiative through the eye hairs of the Netherlands or Europe. If people cannot participate and are not digitally unlocked, there will really be differences in the Netherlands. That's what we need to avoid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u259	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u260	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their reply. Minister Kaag's was a bit longer than Minister Adriaansen's, but that shouldn't spoil the fun. Thank you. I was beginning to say that perhaps it was not with great respect for this institution that it was going to be a bit of a debate about the beard of the emperor. To be honest, I still have that feeling, because there is a very ambitious coalition agreement with more than enough plans and more than enough billions to qualify us for that 4.7 billion in Brussels. That's it. Of course, it would have been a very different debate here if we had 191.5 billion to spend, like the Italians. But we didn't. I am not giving the ministers a motion; I am not giving a ruling to the Chamber. But we've been talking about the Lelyline and there are a lot of other beautiful projects in the MIRT project book. However, I would like to call for other facilities, other funds available in Europe, to be used to implement such a Lelyline Northern Germany, such as the CEF, the Connecting Europe Facility. I agree with Mr Nijboer. I won't just support his motion, because it doesn't have the cover. But I'll give you the call to make use of all the facilities there are. We absolutely need such a cross-border train network. That's how we track the flies out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u261	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Goudswaard of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u262	Mr. Chairman. I've got two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission considers investments in nuclear energy to be sustainable in green taxonomy;]] [[Whereas, therefore, investment in nuclear energy is in line with the objectives of the Recovery and Ferry Plan;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to amend the Restel- en Veerkraartplan and to invest at least 25% of the requested 4.7 billion in nuclear energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Gold Sword.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1847]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u263	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the second motion. European funds such as the Corona Restoration Fund should be able to be stopped at any time by means of a right of veto. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Conference on the Future of Europe calls for the convening of a European Convention;]] [[Whereas President Macron and Commission President Von der Leyen also wish to convene a convention;]] [[noting that 13 Member States opposed the call for a convention and subsequent Treaty changes;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to oppose the convening of a European Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Gold Sword.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1848]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u265	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Heinen. No? He's dropping his term. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u266	Thank you. First of all, I apologize. I'm actually sitting here in the debate room for hours a week, and if the Minister has to answer, I'm just leaving. I won't tell you why, or I'll get LuckyTV back on my ass. Anyway, I'm gonna file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet proposes to reduce the self-employed deduction from €7.280 in 2019 to €1,200 in 2030;]] [[noting that the cabinet is based on a negative situation in which an unknown number of employees abuse the current regime;]] [[noting that the reduction of the self-employed deduction affects all self-employed persons;]] [[Whereas the phasing-out of the self-employed deduction may create negative side effects forzzp'ers;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to investigate the actual number ofzzp's who abuse the current regime;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine the side effects of the reduction of the self-employed deduction and not to introduce the reduction until that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1849]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u267	I'm gonna leave the final motion for a while. I have received the answers through my colleague, for which I am grateful. It's written along, but I'm still filing the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u268	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Grinwis, Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u269	Mr Van der Plas has every right to table a motion on the self-employed deduction. I'm not gonna let that go. An image is sketched here as if phasing out is a matter of combating bogus self-employment, but it is also a result of the opinion of the Borstlap Committee. It says that the difference between wage-earners and those who decide to move forward from one day to the next as a self-employed person is far too great and that it is therefore wise to reduce these differences and to abolish or limit the deduction of self-employed persons as stated in the coalition agreement. I would just like to point out that it is not just a question of combating bogus self-employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u270	No, I didn't. That is why I made a second request in the motion for a resolution to examine its side effects and, on that basis, to implement or not to implement the policy. I am very much in favour of first looking at the effect, the result, and then making policy instead of first making policy and finally finding out "this is not working, it wasn't actually" and then everything has to be reversed. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u271	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen, Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u272	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the rulers for their reply. In this debate, I found accounting to be central. That makes me feel a little unsatisfying. It is really only about the shift of resources and not about new plans that contribute to fundamental reforms that are needed. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, it is not ready with the coalition agreement. We have huge new challenges. The Minister said that there are no old plans in the coalition agreement, but it is true that the world order has changed because of the war in Ukraine, that we have to deal with fossil fuels differently and that the urgency has increased. Two climate reports have been published showing that the situation is worse than scientists had previously shown. These kinds of things point to the need to take additional measures, but they are not going to happen now. My group finds that very disappointing. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u273	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Stoffer, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u274	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank both ministers for answering the questions. I was very honored that I had even answered a block of my own as yet small party. Anyway, when I look at the fund, I think: if we have to pay 1 billion going down to 0.8 billion between 2028 and 2058, if we pay somewhere between 25 and 30 billion and get 4.7 billion back, that's actually a bad deal. That is also a bit the feeling that many inhabitants of the Netherlands live with, at least among those I encounter. We certainly should not do this too often, because it does not help to make European cooperation feel good at least that part of the Dutch I encounter a lot. Anyway, we talked about that. It's the way it is, so I want to end up with two positive notions. The Minister for Economic Affairs indicated that there is not too much in it for SMEs. But one of the things I liked is the investment in quantum technology. I liked that in itself. What exactly are we supposed to do with that? I was just at a meeting of the Defense and the KIVI. I'm still an engineer. It's not my field of expertise, but there was someone there who could tell me so much about the potential. So I am very positive about that. That's the one positive thing. Then the second. I had a motion in preparation to take the Chamber proactively before the decision-making process. But the Minister of Finance made such a good promise that I will just drop that motion, because I trust it will happen. I'll close with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u275	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves. I shall suspend the sitting until 11:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u276	I'm gonna take a look at the minister's colleague. It's coming. All right. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Finance to give her appreciation of a number of motions and to answer some questions. I call the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u277	I had two more questions, Madam President. A question from Mr Van Dijck of the PVV: what demand has been made for France to do something about retirement age? He didn't see that in the plan. Mr Van Dijck may recall the cabinet letter of 7 July 2021, in which the Dutch cabinet gave an appreciation of the French HVP. The French Government started the pension reform in 2019 in line with the country-specific recommendations. This reform was suspended by the COVID-19 crisis and is not part of the RRP, but France stresses that it intends to resume the pension reform. I think we have all read in the newspaper that it has been part of the debate for many years and that there is a desire to do so. The Commission indicates that it will monitor the progress of the pension reform. Then there was a question from Mr Dassen. For the HVP, we have to meet the control and audit requirements and register to which organisations apply. Will the Netherlands use ARACHNE and will the final beneficiaries be made public? Member States must take measures to prevent corruption, fraud and conflicts of interest. We are currently considering the use of ARACHNE as a monitoring tool. The Netherlands does not now use ARACHNE for the Structural Funds. Conditions for making effective use of or wanting to make use of ARACHNE are the user-friendliness, the effectiveness of the system, the comparability, I think, the appreciation of the management authorities/audit services on the use of the instrument and European regulation, the famous GDPR, on data protection. So it is being seriously considered and I can confirm this in due course. Then I'll go straight to the appreciation of the motions. After that my colleague also has an answer to a question I believe and a motion, the motion in part No. 1849.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u278	There is a question from Mr Dassen. About the latter, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. There was a second question concerning the disclosure of beneficiaries. You mentioned it, but you didn't answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u280	Sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u281	I couldn't understand it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u282	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to go too fast. The second question concerned the disclosure of the final beneficiaries. The minister mentioned it, but he didn't answer it in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u283	I'll assume so. I'll take a look at the officials. The answer is yes. I thought it was a decision, but Mr Dassen made me doubt it. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 1843 by Mr Dassen. As I said, the coalition agreement agreed to increase the structural contribution to culture by EUR 200 million, including EUR 30 million for the media. That is a lot more than the 2% HVF allocation for the Netherlands. Existing measures and measures under the coalition agreement in the field of culture have been budgeted and will be implemented. Recording in the HVP doesn't change that. Moreover, inclusion of culture is difficult to achieve within the requirements of the HVF. Culture remains very important to the cabinet and there are, of course, many moments left to discuss it. I therefore advise against this motion. Mr Alkaya's motion for a resolution 1844 asks the government to have the flight tax paid by transferrs and to give all the Dutch one flight free of charge. I will ask Mr Van Rij, the Secretary of State for Taxation, for an investigation. However, as the motion has been tabled at the moment, it is not desirable and it is not feasible because of all the arguments I have already mentioned. Data research and then another debate, that seems to me to be desirable. We'll do that anyway, but as the motion is now formulated, I advise her not to. The motion by Mr Nijboer, Mr Van der Lee, Mrs Teunissen, Mr Alkaya and Mr Dassen to item No. 1845: noting that international train connections from the Netherlands are not of the 21st century, that the journey from The Hague to Hamburg takes six hours and to Berlin seven hours. We have already announced a number of mobility measures today. We are making a number of investments in international rail, but at the moment there is no planning. I have already mentioned that we are doing ERTMS and other business. On the basis of the proposals now before us, I would advise against this motion. But mobility via other channels remains a priority, also of course in talks with the Minister of IenW. The motion in part No. 1846 by Mr Van Dijck: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u284	Apologies. Before you proceed, Mr Nijboer would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u285	Yes, I would like to ask one more question about the motion in part No. 1845, because I think it's about something that connects left to right. It's actually something you don't have to think about. We have to fly less and we want more by train. It also fits within Europe, it is cross-border and it fits within those objectives. So I ask the cabinet again to argue why such a proposal on more international train connections is not supported. Countries such as Spain, Italy and France are ahead of us. That's what I'm saying to the VVD: The Netherlands is a little behind in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u286	We're now, after what we've discussed before... There have been consultations. There have been proposals. Departmental ministries have collected proposals throughout that period. There is an ambitious coalition agreement. The proposals were taken out of that. Much is being done, in many areas. I fully recognise the call to improve and speed up international train connections. And traveling by train must of course also be made cheaper, because at the moment that is also quite pricey. Many people who do not want to fly, I think they have to choose the plane because the train is just more expensive. All these things are absolutely true, and we need to work on them. However, this is not the time to say: let's also do this in the HVP. That's all it is. On that basis, I advise against the motion. But I do not disagree with Mr Nijboer's argument; we support that. In his motion in part No. 1846 Mr Van Dijck asked the government to make full use of the funds from the Recovery and Ferry Plan to reduce the burden on citizens. Mr Van Dijck knows that his motion totally does not meet the criteria of the plan itself. So what he's asking is impossible. I'm dissuading the motion. In his motion, Mr Goudswaard asked for item No. 1847 to invest 25% of the 4.7 billion requested in nuclear energy. We have plans in the coalition agreement for nuclear energy, research and construction. This is financed through the Climate Fund. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 1848 the government is asked to speak against convening a European Convention. First of all, I would like to say that this motion would really belong within the Foreign Affairs Committee. That is where the conference is discussed on a regular basis. But the Dutch cabinet has not written a letter and has not joined the letter writers who have become public today. We have done so for a reason. We advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u287	Thank you. Then we go to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u288	As far as I am concerned, the motion in part No. 1849, by Mrs Van der Plas. I'm going for the rebound. I thought I'd pick him up. First of all, let me come to the promise I just made. Mrs Van der Plas asked the cabinet to investigate the side effects of the reduction in the self-employed deduction. On that part of her motion, I have already said that I would like to inform the Minister of SZW and the Secretary of State for Finance to take this into account. So that was my promise. But the motion also states: 'and until then not to introduce the reduction'. That's complicated, because there's something else in the coalition agreement. In that sense, I should discourage the motion. But I would actually advise Mrs van der Plas to hold the motion because there is still plenty of room to question it. For example, the Secretary of State for Finance will hold a debate in June on fiscal policy and the implementation agenda. Then this can also be discussed. I therefore advise Mrs Van der Plas to hold her motion. If she doesn't, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u289	I would like to look at Mrs van der Plas to see if she can think about that for a while. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u290	That concludes this debate. I would like to thank both directors for their reply. Ah, I see Mr Van Dijck has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u291	Maybe I missed it, because I was inside a little later...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-10-tweedekamer-33.u292	No, Mr. Van Dijck, we're really at the end now. You missed it, too. The Minister replied, but unfortunately you were not in the Chamber at the time. Yes, very annoying. This happened twice today. Timing is everything, let's just say. I would also like to thank the spokesmen and the people who have followed the debate. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions that have been tabled. Thank you all.
