ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the extension of the Temporary Law on administrative measures to combat terrorism (35917). I welcome the Minister for Justice and Security and, of course, the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the first word to Mrs De Boer of the GroenLinks Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's the first time I've met our new minister in a debate. I warmly congratulate her on this position and hope that the rule of law will be in good hands with her. That's what I'm holding my heart for, I must say, but she can make a good start today. Mr. Chairman. Like yesterday when the Twm was extended and today when the possibility of withdrawing nationality was extended, we are discussing the extension of a temporary law in this debate. That calls for a critical test. The Cabinet stated that when submitting this legislative proposal in 2016: "The legislative proposal contains far-reaching powers that infringe citizens' rights and freedoms and temporaryity, obliges it to reconsider whether it is desirable to continue this law after five years." I am happy to respond to this invitation and I will pay attention to the necessity, efficiency, proportionality and subsidiarity. We also need to assess whether the law is enforceable. When this law was introduced, it was legitimised by the exceptional circumstances of that time. There was a significant level of threat to terrorist attacks, we were dealing with relatively large numbers of return travellers from the IS area and the criminal justice tools were limited. We are now five years away, the threat level has fallen, there are hardly any return travellers apart from those we ourselves bring back to prosecute criminal law and criminal law has more opportunities to intervene early in the preparation of terrorist acts. What exactly is the need for this law under the present circumstances? The answer given by the cabinet to the written questions: see it as dike surveillance in case. As far as we are concerned, that answer is not enough. In yesterday's debate, on behalf of many political groups in this Chamber, I was able to say that 'in case' is not sufficient to allow the extension of a temporary, fundamental law-limiting law. The same applies to the present legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I come to proportionality. The question is whether the infringement of citizens' rights is proportionate to the objective that can be achieved. It also affects effectiveness. The violation of citizens' fundamental rights is significant. They can be severely restricted in their freedoms without judicial review and outside criminal safeguards. On the effects of the temporary law, WODC and Council of State conclude that the law has been applied so little in the last five years that there is actually nothing to say about this. To the limited extent possible, they consider that the measures are not effective. According to WODC and Council of State, the government's assumptions about effectiveness are not in line with the functioning in practice. Can the Minister explain again why that law would be effective? Mr. Chairman. The question of subsidiarity is whether we can use less radical means of achieving the objective of protecting national security. In this context, I come to the fight against radicalisation and deradicalisation. Where countering radicalisation was originally one of the aims of the law, the cabinet now points to deradicalisation as a possible side effect, after it has been found that the law is not effective on this point and perhaps even counterproductive. Apart from the discussion of whether deradicalisation should be a goal or a means, my group is surprised that the government does not weigh more heavily on deradicalisation, or even better on preventing radicalisation, especially in view of the steps taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs in this area. Does the Minister agree with my group that measures against radicalisation are potentially more effective than the measures in this law? Does the Minister agree that these measures do less to interfere with the personal freedoms of citizens and are therefore preferable in the context of subsidiarity? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say a few words about implementation. The implementation burden of this law is high. There is a great deal of research to be done in order to impose the measures. This is capacity that could also be used in the context of criminal investigations into the criminal preparation of terrorist actions. If there are not enough leads to such a criminal investigation, how is the use of so much implementation capacity for the benefit of administrative measures still to be justified, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The GroenLinks Group already ruled negative on the necessity and proportionality of this temporary law in 2017. This judgment has not become more positive since the necessity has been further reduced and the law has not proved effective. Nevertheless, I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mrs. De Boer is going into the threat level. Of course, that is incomparable with five years ago, but yesterday in the debate on the draft law on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, we discussed this with several political groups. Then we mentioned: look carefully before you make a direct link between the threat level and the probability of the occurrence of attacks. In January, you had that huge prison outbreak of ISIS fighters that was barely pushed back. Think of the number of Dutch people with this potential that is still in Syria. Look at the jihadists coming back up in Mali. Do you agree with me that you are underestimating the threat and sweeping it away too easily when you say that we do not really need that legislation in our instrument box?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u5	That's a lot of questions all at once, and they actually look at the complexity. Look, my judgment is that you need to see the necessity in the light of the threat level, and that's a lot lower now than when we introduced that law. I think you agree with me. You also have to look at the measures that are in here. These are measures which are mainly a burden on citizens and which do almost nothing else in the area of security protection. That they would do something has a high degree of wishful thinking. When it comes to outbreaks from prisons or people threatening to travel back, we have our criminal instruments. And frankly, to put it bluntly, I don't think anyone who intends to commit a terrorist attack will be stopped by a restraining order. So, yes, there is a threat and we should be focusing on it, but then I think that with a commitment through programmes to counter radicalisation and deradicalisation on the one hand and staffing intervention on the other, if there are really any preparatory actions, there will be sufficient instruments to cover the whole palette. I think that these administrative measures, which are a bit of both because they are a major infringement of rights but are also soft in the sense that they are not effective, actually have the worst of both and bring little good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u6	Thank you to Mrs De Boer for the comprehensive answer to my question. We appreciate the complementarity of these measures in criminal law. More legislation is also under discussion. You should not only look at this measure, but, together with the other measures, see whether the effectiveness of reducing terrorism will ultimately succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u7	I can only imagine that I'm going to interrupt you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u8	Thank you. I call Mrs Bezaan from the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the extension of the Temporary Act to five years of anti-terrorism administrative measures, which runs until 1 March 2027. This law lays down temporary rules for the imposition of restrictions on freedom of movement for persons who pose a threat to national security or who intend to join terrorist organisations. For example, the obligation to notify, the ban on territory and the ban on exit should be considered. Even in 2027 we are probably not rid of the dangerous ideology of Islam, and therefore not of the terrorist jihad. So what can we expect from the Minister after 2027? So, did this temporary problem go away? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Let's not be naive. The measures mentioned are a drop in the ocean, as life-threatening jihadists can easily evade the measures. For example, ankle tyres, which must maintain land bans and reporting obligations, can easily be cut and they do not prevent jihadists from entering public space, with all possible consequences. And a land ban may sound nice on paper, but this area ban should of course apply to the whole of the Netherlands. It doesn't matter where jihadists attack. In their eyes, we live in a country full of unbelievers, or kafirs, who may be killed rücksichtslos. Mr. Chairman. Our group believes that the government has an absolute duty to protect its citizens, and as regards jihadists, it is best to do so by giving them a life sentence. This is how you avoid what is actually happening now, namely that Russian roulette is being played with the lives of our citizens. Unfortunately, where a tough, uncompromising approach is needed, our country has to deal with politicians and the media who give terrorists all the space. For example, Jihadiste Laura H. was allowed to join the bank at Margriet van der Linden for an extensive TV interview and closes the VVD, the party of our Prime Minister and our Minister of Justice and Security, the convicted terrorist Soumaya Salah in the arms. Does the Minister agree with me that the Netherlands should not give terrorists a millimeter of space? I'd like a response. The Netherlands has a government that voluntarily and unenforcedly brings Islamic terrorists back to our country where they are facing a relatively short prison sentence, after which they can enjoy their lives. That is unforgivable and completely disrespectful of their victims. The statement made by Prime Minister Rutte in 2015 during the debate leading up to the Provincial State elections that Dutch people who want to travel as a jihadist to Syria or Iraq could be better killed there than returning to the Netherlands was therefore nothing more than an ordinary election stunt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u10	I doubted for a moment whether I would be interrupting the remark about the VVD member who was convicted as a member of the Hofstad Group. I do that anyway, because that is how your text says: 'Once a crook, always a crook'. I think our constitutional principle is that you do something and then you can rehabilitate yourself. You can change your mind about business. I would say that it is even a success for the rule of law if you go from terrorist sympathies to a democratic party that wants democratic solutions. Why does the PVV, and in this case you as the spokesman, insist that it is so terrible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u11	First of all, I think rehabilitation is rather difficult when you talk about Islam, but the main argument is that there isn't even an apology for it. Given the VVD by far as party is best at apologizing for accidents, this could at least have taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u12	The question is (a) what for, but (b) whether it is ready for your group if there are any excuses. That basic principle also applies to the PVV. At the moment you have done something and that you will react to it, you should in principle be able to make a fairly clean new start.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u13	Apologies are a start, but it has also turned out that the lady we are talking about said certain things about Mr Wilders. I do not know whether Mr Wilders would agree if only excuses were made. I don't know how you'd react if you were threatened with that type of weapon, but maybe you're more of a guy who's okay with someone saying sorry. Yeah, it's different at our club.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u14	Finally, Mr Recourt once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u15	I'm very much of a right-of-restorer, but I can see how that's different for everyone. I don't know how that would go if it were for me directly. But that's not what I care about. I am interrupting because I almost disagree that someone with a label will always keep that label, if I listened to you carefully. Fortunately, you are nudging that by saying that it is not, that excuses are at least appropriate, but that someone can, in principle, make a fresh start. Did I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u16	Not quite, because if you threaten someone in such a way, it goes against everything that our rule of law stands for. Then maybe you can start by saying sorry, but... no, I'm not answering any of this, if you don't mind. At least we don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u17	That is why I have to react, without wanting to have a whole debate on this issue. In fact, we are talking about a criminal debate on the essence of criminal law and the essence of our rule of law. I understand Mrs Bezaan in such a way that she believes that a threat can be so serious that your civil liberties must be taken away from you for a lifetime. So the first question is, is that right? And the second question is: is that true for threats that are not based on Islam but on other ideologies? How do you see this in the whole context of our rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u18	First of all, I'm convinced that anointing healers make stinking wounds. I trust that this comment from me will give you enough answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u19	No, unfortunately that is not the case, I say through the chairman. If you're talking about "soft healers make stinking wounds," I can imagine, but for that we have criminal law. Criminal law is for punishing people for what they've done, after thorough investigation. And if you've served that sentence, our rule of law will be in such a state that it's done. Then there's no reason to take away any further civil liberties. My question to Mrs Bezaan on behalf of the PVV is whether she agrees or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u20	I believe that Mr Wilders' civil liberties have been taken away for a long time, so I fully understand his reaction to this. And I agree with him, too. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u21	Finally, Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u22	Finally. I note that I am not getting an answer to my question, because I did not ask for an emotional personal response from Mr Wilders, but for a political response from Mrs Bezaan's party to the rule of law that it is ready after serving your sentence and that there is no reason to restrict your civil liberties. I did not receive an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Mr President. The PVV Group will vote for the extension of the law, albeit as Mr Markuszower so eloquently put it in the House of Representatives, in the context of "something is better than nothing." Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u25	Mrs. De Boer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u26	Yesterday we had a debate on the extension of the Twm. At that time, your colleague Mr Van Hattem made a very comprehensive argument that, even if it is a temporary law restricting civil liberties, your group cannot vote in favour of such a law, if the effectiveness of that law has not been scientifically demonstrated and if there are no clear indicators for how long that law can remain in force and when those measures can or cannot be scaled down. I would ask you to apply the criteria he has set out in that speech to this law and to explain to me how you come to a conclusion that is 180 degrees in the opposite direction by applying the same criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u27	First of all... The Twbmt evaluation study states that the administrative measures have added value to the local, personalised approach to counter-terrorism. Second. As far as PVV is concerned, the current threat is a reason to extend the Twbmt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u28	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Recourt of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, on behalf of the Labour Party. Today we are discussing the extension of a temporary law which has hardly been applied, has received a poor evaluation and a critical report from the Council of State. The next item is an extension, while the threat picture has improved and alternative criminal measures have been developed. However, this extension is continued under the guise that you cannot wait to strengthen the dikes until there is a heavy storm. The government also admits honestly that it preferred to make the law permanent, but under pressure from the Lower House has opted for a temporary extension. Better shy than shy, the motto is, and right here the shoe wrings. Protecting national security, the purpose of this law, is, of course, a great asset, but it has to be balanced against the restriction of freedom that it entails, even if the law is never applied. My group does not want a government with very far-reaching powers for 'you never know'. Powers must be proportionate in relation to the threat. And has the threat been removed or greatly reduced? Then again, get rid of the jurisdiction. Is there a better alternative? Get rid of the jurisdiction. Is the measure not effective? Get rid of the jurisdiction. All three of these elements are dealt with here. Research has shown that far-reaching powers introduced as temporary measures after 11 September 2001 have never been reversed, even if the threat that justified imports has disappeared. You never know. Mr. Chairman. Power, and in particular government power, must always be approached critically. So no far-reaching powers where they are no longer needed. We have now proved that if the need arises again, we will soon be able to introduce new legislation, but with parliamentary control of proportionality. The new vision of fear for everyone who loves his freedom is now called surveillance state; we used to call it Big Brother. With the increase in technological potential, the fear of increasing government power at the expense of its citizens is also increasingly real. The requirement of proportionality and subsidiarity, which I agree with Mrs De Boer, is an important protection. A few comments on the peculiarity of this law, which makes it possible for the administration to impose restrictions on freedom which are classic to the courts. No one gets punished for what he thinks, even though that thought is even so horrible. But in silence, I say, because it becomes different when it comes to expressing thoughts. Some expressed thoughts, namely concrete intentions, may already be covered by criminal preparatory acts for terrorism. That is problematic, because by far the majority of intentions simply remain thoughts and never become reality. This law goes one step further, because it is not the criminal lawman who restricts freedom, but the administration. Can the Minister briefly explain here what the minimum of evidence is for the administration? What concrete evidence is needed to impose such an administrative measure? Does the person concerned gain insight into any material used against him? Can the judge test on the basis of all the information and what test can the judge make? A full test, or should it take into account the discretion of the board? In what way does the recent ruling of the Council of State, made in the Grand Chamber of 2 February last, which introduces the concept of "slide scale', fit into the review of the principle of proportionality by the Administrative Court? Then there is the impure back door of criminal law, to which Mr Dittrich referred in his written questions. Where the criminal court rejects a request, the board may still impose it. Think of supervision after detention, supervision of suspension of provisional detention without conditions, etc. This is a development that does not fit in with our legal system. Not the judge will have the final say on the execution or remand in an individual case, but the board. This seems to me to be a fundamentally incorrect development. Can the Minister reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. My colleague Kathmann has asked in the Lower House why it is necessary to also record data on race and ethnicity. The Minister replied that such data does not play a role in imposing measures but that the GDPR requires inclusion. Can the Minister explain once again why and how the GDPR requires that senseless but valid for the person concerned, the whole of society, vulnerable data................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman. My group welcomes the initiative for better integrated cooperation to combat terrorism. We hear more about that this spring, so we could read. Take away the soil, gain the confidence of the environment, leave room for an authoritative alternative sound, organize knowledge and skill in the government of language and matter. This approach focuses on local policy. The fact that the government is investing further in this is an old wish of my group and is therefore very welcome. Let us put our money and our energy on this and for now stop with this law with its negative effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u30	I would like to return to Mr Recourt's view that there is really no need anymore, because that level of threat is well down. My first question would therefore be: do you agree with me that there is actually no direct relationship between the level of threat on the one hand and the need and urgency to take measures to reduce terrorism on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u31	In general, I disagree with you. I assume you mean that there can always be terrorists, even at a low level of threat, or people who intend to do bad things. But the more concrete that threat, the higher the urgency and the more important it is that you have your measures in order. In general, I do not agree with you, but if you mean that there can always be such individuals, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u32	That's my follow-up point. The threat picture is regularly updated and we get information about it. If you read that, you can see that despite the fact that the threat level is going down, there may indeed be so many signals that it is really necessary that you have this in your instrument mix. Then I come to my next question: how quickly can we legislate? You say that this is not necessary, because we can do so very quickly. But do you not agree with me that we were too late last time, five years ago, when we made legislation on the subject we discussed yesterday? Because we were too late with that, people who should actually be included in 2015 and 2016 have been acquitted by the judge at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u33	Of course, the judge can only apply a law once it has entered into force. But no, I don't think I agree with you. The implication of your comment is that we put him in the toolbox, and if he's needed, we can get him out quickly. I have just argued that for several reasons, not just that level of threat, you should not want freedom-limiting measures if they are not a genuinely topical, urgent cause and if the measure is not effective and proportionate. All three elements are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u34	For the last time, Mr Arbouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u35	I conclude that we do not agree on this assessment, but at least I am satisfied with Mr Recourt's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u36	Thank you. I call Mr Dittrich of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Temporary Act aims to combat terrorism by protecting national security against the threat of terrorism by enabling administrative action to be taken in situations where criminal law is not yet in play. Then we have to think of a reporting obligation, a land ban, a restraining order, an exit ban. These are very far-reaching measures, which violate the fundamental rights of citizens. That is why it was agreed at the time that this law only applies until 1 March, unless we allow an extension of five years. It was also agreed that the law would be reviewed. D66 believes it is important that terrorism and the threat of terrorism are effectively combated, but we do not want any measures that are used to this end to undermine important principles of our rule of law. We are therefore reviewing this proposal for a regulation on proportionality of the measures and the proposal for an extension on legality, enforceability and feasibility. That is why we were very interested in the evaluation carried out by the WODC, but also in what the Advisory Department of the Council of State and an organisation such as the Dutch Order of Lawyers had to say about this bill. This raises a number of questions for us, first of all about the usefulness and necessity of this temporary law. The Minister states that the need to maintain the possibility of using administrative measures under this temporary law is not determined by the threat picture and the level of threat. Mr Arbouw has already spoken about this. The Minister says that it is not determined by the number of times this law has been applied. But if you let that get to you, the Minister actually says that the evaluation of the law by the WODC is a dead letter, because those were exactly two important components in the evaluation. The written documents then repeat that the law complements the existing instruments, but that is not really substantiated. However, I would like to quote the conclusion of the WODC report: 'The expectations of the functioning of the law have not been met to a large extent'. As far as the law was effective, the researchers noted: "There is a high workload prior to imposing the measures, while the added value of the law for the personal approach is limited." My questions to the Minister: does the Minister acknowledge that the WODC investigation was very critical of the functioning of the law and that the WODC researchers themselves do not draw the conclusion that this law has contributed to protecting national security? For the D66 Group, these are important conclusions, because it is, of course, about proportionality. The Minister states: "The interventions from the temporary law are an important complement to the package of possible interventions." But how can you say that if the law has only been used seven times and eleven measures have been imposed in the period in which the WODC conducted that investigation? Then there's the threat picture. The government always refers to the importance of the law as a whole and not to individual measures, but the Advisory Section of the Council of State rightly points out that this does not answer the question of whether all measures still have the right to exist. The WODC evaluation study showed that the deployment of measures varied. For example, the ban on contact was only applied once, and mayors have not withdrawn any permits or subsidies on the basis of this law. The fact that the government does not make any substantive changes means that the government says that these measures are effective and necessary in the interests of national security. However, this raises the question of how the withdrawal of subsidies or licences can be considered effective if it never occurred during the period under investigation. And how can the restraining order be considered effective if it has only been applied once? In short, for all the measures contained in this bill, can the government explain once again, per measure, why the government considers this necessary for the protection of national security? Then there's the threat picture. That went from 4 to 3, to "significant" in the five years that the law was in force. The situation has changed completely. Previous speakers have already mentioned this. The need was mainly supported by the threat of jihadism when the law was introduced. Even now, the Minister states in the explanatory statement "that the current threat image also gives rise to the maintenance of the temporary law." But not only the level, but also the kind of threat has changed, for example, outbound travellers vis-à-vis returners. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security says: these two periods are totally incomparable. The Council of State therefore rightly states that the existence of the measures contained in the legal texts is not sufficiently substantiated. If the threat picture gives rise to the law, how can it be that in the case of a lower threat level and in the case of an incomparable threat picture, exactly the same measures are continued? Should the infringement of these measures not end in proportion to the level of threat, which is then put forward as justification? Mr. Chairman. Another passage on the relationship between criminal law and administrative law. The law regulates measures aimed at persons who pose a threat to national security but whose conduct does not yet result in criminal offences. The measures are therefore preventive and must be distinguished from the use of criminal powers. Therefore, the link to the imposition of an administrative measure is not a suspicion or an indication that a terrorist offence is being committed or will be committed, according to the Minister. Then I quote: 'but a set of behaviors', end quote, on the basis of which it must be concluded that the person in question poses a threat to national security. At local level, a particular person is then examined from different angles. The conclusion of the intervention will then be submitted to the Minister. In the note to the report, the Minister replied to a question from D66: "Sometimes, however, the criminal record is still not sufficiently developed, while the behaviour is a threat to national security." This is a real tension field, isn't it? Suppose the criminal court finds that there are not enough serious objections to hold someone. Then the criminal can release or decide that there is no need to impose conditions on the release. Then it is strange that the Minister could impose a reporting obligation or a ban on territory or contact on the basis of administrative law, whereas the criminal court did not consider that necessary. You could say: isn't this close to a détournement the minister's pouvoir? The administrative measures are preventive and criminal law is not yet under discussion. However, national security is protected by intervention on the basis of the conduct of the person concerned. But these behaviors are also preparatory acts of a terrorist crime, in the sense of criminal law. Preparing acts are behaviours. Then why not intervene on the basis of criminal law, with all the safeguards that apply there? If I look at Article 6 of the Temporary Law, which is'related to terrorist activities' on the basis of its conduct, then the question is also justified: are words also covered by 'behaviour'? The question is also whether watching videos on the internet or reading documents relating to, for example, right-wing extremist attacks in Norway or New Zealand is also covered by "behaviour." Is that a reason for imposing an individual measure to protect national security, as set out in Article 2 (1)? Mr. Chairman. We would also like to know whether right-wing extremist behaviour has already led to the imposition of an administrative measure. The documents also refer to a digital area ban. That would happen in Utrecht or will happen. The previous minister replied: well, I'm going to look at that with interest. How's that going? Can this minister say anything about that? Finally, Mr President, a word on legal protection. For what is the case with the legal protection of a person who has been examined by the local association, whose personal data is shared and processed and who is then subject to an administrative measure, e.g. a reporting obligation? After all, the Data Processing Act is still in the Eerste Kamer. All kinds of questions have been asked about that. This law has a number of forms of protection, for example an advisory committee, a privacy officer per participating organisation, there is possibility of objection, there is possibility of appeal. The question to the Minister is: are all these things now being applied on the basis of this law? They are given the opportunity to express their views on the measure, but the temporary law does not provide for an opinion at all and does not provide for any objection at all. One must appeal immediately against the Minister's decision. The question the group of D66 has is how the Data Processing Act, which is not yet in force, relates to this law. And on what legal basis are these personal data processed under this temporary law? Mr President, those were the questions of the D66 Group and we look forward with interest to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I shall then give the floor to Mr Janssen. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr President. The next temporary law is on today's agenda. Looks like it's getting fashionable. Again a law in which the WODC has conducted research into the effectiveness of the law in practice. The judgment is also critical with regard to the functioning of this law. The WODC found that the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism did not contribute to a process of deradicalisation, that the measures did not lead to better contact and links with the persons concerned or contributed to greater knowledge of the motives and behaviour of those persons. In addition, there were only a very limited number of people. When I read the reaction of the cabinet to the WODC findings, it seems as if the cabinet says that the WODC has understood nothing of the objectives of the law. Is that really what the Minister means to say? In the case of this law, too, my group believes that the predicate temporarily does not fit in with this. You're making a temporary law that's valid for five years. Meanwhile, you assess the effectiveness in practice and decide whether you want to make the law permanent. Now the temporary law is renewed for another five years if it is up to the cabinet. My group does not believe that this is a good thing. Temporary must remain temporary and not permanently in a cloaking jacket. According to the Minister, the law provides justification for the protection of national security. At the same time, the Minister says that the extent to which national security is threatened is not a criterion for the law. That's where I lose track. I quote from the note following the report: 'The need to maintain the possibility of using administrative measures from the Twbmt is therefore not determined by the threat image and/or level of threat, just as it is not determined by the number of times the law has been applied. According to the Cabinet, the determination of a threat level at which the Twbmt is no longer considered necessary is undesirable." Here goes the state of law shoe wringing. Here a semi-permanent law is made possible, which the cabinet says is not an assessment criterion and should actually be permanent. If you follow the Minister's reasoning line, it is: even if the threat is zero, you never know. By the way, this also makes an annual evaluation an absolute empty case, because it is not going to lead to anything. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. Far-reaching measures in fundamental rights, outside acute crisis situations for as short a period as possible, do not belong in a temporary law as a starting point. However, everything in the Minister's response is crying out for permanent. Coalition parties in the Lower House wanted a five-year extension; so the cabinet pretends to be an extension, but that's not the point at all. Jihadism was at the root of this law when we look back. Everything is stuck to it as a distraction, but without a jihadist threat this law would never have come about. Does the Minister share this view? In my group's view, inserting Article 7a and b on data showing racial or ethnic origin, political, religious or philosophical beliefs should not be the subject of an extension of a temporary existing law. The Cabinet writes that following the opinion of the Council of State in the proposed Article 7a on the processing of special personal data. This processing is limited to data showing racial or ethnic origin, political, religious or philosophical beliefs and health data. But that's not what the Council of State recommended. The cabinet suggests that it follows the Council of State, but does not. The Council of State, I quote, states: the department advises the basis to limit special categories of personal data to data showing religious or philosophical beliefs and, where appropriate, political views. Has the Council of State made a mistake by overlooking the GDPR obligation to which the Minister refers about race and ethnicity? Why is the Minister aware of this provision and of this obligation, but the Council of State and the Advisory Section do not? Mr. Chairman. The mixing of criminal and administrative law in the manner laid down in this law, my group simply considers it undesirable, and that is why we reject it. Mr President, concluding. The Minister states that the current threat image also gives rise to the preservation of the Twbmt in order to protect national security. On the other hand, the threat picture does not play any role in the extension of the Dutch law to protect national security. It all seems rather wanted and constructed on my group. The NCTV says that it is not possible and is not possible to conduct empirical research and to investigate whether the Twbmt prevents terrorist attacks or crimes or that the level of threat is reduced by the use of the Twbmt. The WODC concludes that expectations of the operation of the Twbmt have largely not been met. The WODC further concludes that the Twbmt is a bare monitoring and control tool, the added value of which is lacking. This does not prove useful, necessary and effective for my group to see the law that the cabinet now wishes to extend. I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u40	Thank you. Mr Talsma then has the floor. He speaks on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Gert Schutte, a representative of the People's Party, recently died, on behalf of the GPV, the party that together with the RPF was to form the Christian Union. Gert Schutte was not remembered in this Chamber because he was never a member here, but I would like to mention his name here with respect for his contribution to Dutch politics in general and to Christian-social politics in particular. Schutte was a strong supporter of clear dualism. The government rules and the States-General function as the people's conscience. In his Thorbecke lecture in 2002, Schutte said: "Dualism is not about small things. The credibility of the government and the relationship of trust between government and citizens are at stake." And today, too, it is not a small matter. Fighting terrorism, national security, violations of fundamental rights, legal protection, it all affects that relationship between government and citizens. So there is every reason to carry out our task as a people's conscience according to our ability. The measures whose legal basis has been extended by five years have not been applied in recent years and, in some cases, never. And while the Minister is right in saying that effectiveness is not related to quantity, my group does not consider the basis for the position that the law has contributed to national security in recent years to be very firm. That is all the more so now that colleagues have already said that the WODC has produced a critical review and the Council of State has also made considerable comments on the need and effectiveness demonstrated. When this law was enacted, a temporary duration of action was explicitly chosen. It recognised that these measures were far-reaching and offered the possibility of reconsidering the desirability of these measures after five years. If I try to look at the whole thing, I get the impression that the last five years have actually produced too little casuism to determine a well-founded view on necessity and effectiveness. It is clear that the implementation of the law requires a lot of time and commitment at all levels and that there is a profit in terms of the individual approach. In that spirit, I also read the Segers/Van Toorenburg motion adopted in the Lower House, which asks for the extension of the temporary law, but also insists on considering how the workload can be reduced and the added value for the person-oriented approach can be increased, a kind of extension of the probationary period. My group does not reject this in advance and considers it proportionate in the consideration of the interests involved. How does the Minister see that? Apart from the motion already mentioned, there are several other statements from each of the two chambers concerning the evaluation of this and other legislation relating to the fight against terrorism. A broader counter-terrorism strategy is also in the making. My question is: does the Minister still have the overview? What is her picture of what will happen in a possible extended probationary period in order to arrive at a substantiated assessment? As far as my group is concerned, these are at least clear criteria for evaluation. What conditions do the five individual measures have to meet if they are to be eligible for a new extension or even a permanent place in the law? Does the Minister provide the WODC with such criteria? As far as my group is concerned, the relationship with criminal law is an important point of attention. WODC and the Council of State both raise the question of whether administrative law is the appropriate route. My group, too, is not yet convinced on this point and would like to see this evaluated in greater detail. Furthermore, according to the WODC, the law is not now being used for what it was originally intended for, namely for those places where criminal law does not, or does not yet, provide for the protection of national security. In the written reply, the Minister seems to see this differently. Can she put that into practice? And how does the use of this law prior to criminal action relate to secrecy, in which investigation can be so beneficial? Adequate legal protection is also an issue on which we are critically critical. In what way will this element be included in the next evaluation? The last part I am referring to here has already been made in written preparation by my group as the constitutional image emerging when a judge finds that there are insufficient serious objections to a person's retention or release conditions and then the Minister still imposes those conditions on the basis of another legal title. The Minister's reaction that the administrative measure serves a different purpose does not recognise the legal portee of the question. Since it is a very important point for my group, I have taken the liberty of putting the question to her again. Mr President, allow me to conclude with a quote by Gert Schutte: 'A sharp analysis of the policy in a debate with the Minister can stimulate a clear response'. With good hope for the latter, I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u42	Thank you. Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u43	I shall go back to what Mr Talsma said at the beginning of his speech. He said two things. First of all, he said that the weighting of the implementation burden against possible effects should be improved over the coming period, including by means of the Segers motion. Let me put it this way. The second is that any subsequent extension of this law would need to justify the possible effects by measure, because they cannot be established now. My question is: why does this need to happen until the next extension? Why should we not be able to answer this question by measure? We must now assess whether there is any basis for this extension. Then these questions will have to be answered now and not only on a further extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u44	Strictly speaking, I fully agree with Mr De Boer. That would have been ideally the best. I would have preferred that the WODC had produced a report on the basis of extensive study with a great deal of casuism, of which we could then have assessed and assessed the conclusions. We could then link them to our consideration of this bill. But my thesis is that there is actually not enough underlying casuism. A number of measures have been used very little and, in some cases, not even once. Well, then it's gonna be kind of hard to evaluate. That's kind of the portee of what I've been trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u45	But should you not conclude that an evaluation has been carried out on the basis of the case-law that shows that effectiveness cannot be sufficiently demonstrated? Ergo, there's no reason to extend the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u46	I can be brief about that. No, we do not draw that conclusion. If you have too little underlying material to do a good evaluation, then our conclusion is not immediately that these measures are not effective. We think that the underlying problem is serious enough to do something about it and to have and maintain certain provisions for it. As far as my group is concerned, however, we are not going to extend and extend it, without knowing at some point where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u47	My question follows on from that. If there has been no casusism in the past five years, the time of a great jihadist threat, does Mr Talsma think that in the next five years, in which hopefully that threat will not return, there will be enough casusism to give judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u48	That is very difficult to predict, but it does not immediately seem that the casuism will accumulate in large piles. But that means that the impact of the law will continue to be small in the years to come, in my group's view. That is what I meant to say about the weighting of the interests involved: what is the impact and what is the effect of the law? If that means that we will be back here in five years' time, then I hope to be able to look at Mr Janssen again here and say to each other that it has not been much more than it was, then I think my group has made the balance by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u49	Let me say that I think this is a good answer and I also hope to see Mr Talsma here again in five years' time in good health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u50	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u51	Mr Janssen then has the floor. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group. Oh, I mean Mr. Doornhof. Apologies, Mr. Doornhof, of course it would be very special to forget you. For those who have not heard it, Mr Doornhof speaks on behalf of the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u52	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Yesterday we discussed the extension of the possibility of withdrawing Dutch citizenship. At that time, on behalf of the CDA, I pointed out that the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security said that this jihadist movement is currently causing radicalisation and that this movement is a threat to national security. The CDA therefore believes that we should continue to arm ourselves against terrorism. It is therefore also important that you extend the possibility of taking that passport. It is also important that you maintain the administrative measures that you would like to take against terrorism; that is what we are talking about. I did say yesterday that my group has some mixed feelings about the amendment in the House of Representatives on the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship, which says: let us make it a temporary law again. The government's original proposal was to give that possibility of withdrawing the passport a permanent character. In the present proposal, it was the government itself that said at the time of submission that this would be a temporary law again. At first, however, it was intended to make this a permanent law. The Segers motion may have played an important role in this, but my group would like to hear from the government exactly what that is about. If you look at the evaluation of the WODC, then there is not much use of this law. Apparently, the question whether or not you use the powers frequently or not is not a question of whether or not you maintain powers at this time. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday... I agree with Mr Janssen that if you need powers, you must also dare to say yes to a law and make it a permanent law. If it's the other way around, you'll make a choice. If you look at the threat images of NCTV and if you see that terrorism is spreading everywhere, Mr Arbouw has just given good examples of this, then you can ask whether this temporary law should actually be converted into a permanent one. My group is curious about the Minister's response to this. So far, in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u53	There's been a big confusion of speech. You put it very clearly in the first term: this is a temporary law, but actually with arguments for permanent. Because "temporarily" means: if it's no longer necessary, he'll leave. Then the threat picture is important. Mr Arbouw pointed that out too. If you say "permanent," this means we have him in the toolbox and we pull him out right away when we need to. Do I hear correctly that the CDA Group is actually taking the view of that last argument, namely: we just want it in the toolbox, threat image or not, because if we need it, we want to be able to use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u54	I would like to thank Mr Recourt for that question, which is why I can make the position of the CDA Group clear. You may have noticed that my speech is a little more inquisitive in the direction of the government than it was yesterday. Where you were talking yesterday about withdrawing the Dutchmanship, you would say that there are enough arguments to say: you just have to cut the knot and you have to keep that power. Here we have a WODC report that Talsma has just pointed out is a bit tricky to really use when you look at this law. So it's more out of interest that I ask what's smart to do now. 'Cause, yeah, you're gonna pass a temporary law again. That is what the government is asking, when we are actually saying: we do not like to do that; dare to make a clear choice. I would like to know what the Minister's answer is on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u55	And in second term, will that clear choice of the CDA follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u56	I would like to point out to Mr Recourt that we may need group consultations to do so. So do you get that answer in the second term? But let me put it this way: if we stand here in five years' time, I have already understood that we will be able to see some people again, hopefully, at that time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u57	Thank you. The next item is Mr Arbouw of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a brief contribution to make to clarify my group's position, because I think the debate has already said what is necessary. Mr. Chairman. This bill extends the duration of the temporary law by five years. These are the temporary rules for imposing restrictions on freedom of movement on persons who pose a threat to national security, or who intend to join terrorist groups. This law will also expire on 1 March, so it is important that we reach a decision on this extension today, because of course it will have to be published in the Official Journal. Mr. Chairman. On the urgency of developing a package of coherent legislation to combat terrorism, I already discussed yesterday the extension of the state law to extend the possibility of withdrawing Dutch citizenship. We also discussed this in the debate. In yesterday's reactions from my fellow Members, too, I thought it was important for us to bear in mind that this is not about each individual measure, but about an overall package. Hence the question: can the Minister explain in the reply how she sees this coherence of legislation in this integrated approach and what is the importance of this legislative proposal within this approach? Mr. Chairman. The aim of this law is to protect national security against terrorist threats, by enabling administrative action to be taken in situations where criminal law does not yet provide a legal perspective. It deals with the obligation to notify, the ban on territory, the ban on contact and the ban on exit, but which is often not dealt with: administrative bodies may also refuse or withdraw subsidies or permits on the basis of this law, if there is a serious risk that they may be used for terrorist activities. There is, of course, also the link to how we try to achieve radicalisation locally in case-solving, and to take appropriate measures in good time. As described in the WODC report, this law has recently been applied in seven cases. Several colleagues have pointed this out. In these cases, therefore, a preventive measure has been implemented to counter a threat to national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u59	I take Mr Arbouw back to what he just said: where criminal law offers no perspective. What a number of colleagues have pointed out, including myself, is that criminal law does offer a perspective, but apparently not the perspective desired by administrative law, because that is given as a kind of post-measure on a criminal judgment. Then it is very strange what Mr Arbouw thinks should be the perspective. I would like to ask him about that, because if he says 'criminal law does not offer a perspective'............................................................................................................................................................................................ What perspective does Mr Arbouw mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u60	That has to do with the threat assessment when it comes to national security. The tricky thing is that criminal law needs facts to be able to act. Those facts can be very clear to those who perform that from the case consultation, which shows that you need to act quickly. Then it must be submitted to the Minister. That may be just as different from how the criminal court judges it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u61	Does Mr Arbouw mean to say that the administrative measures can be imposed in a factual manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u62	No, no, no, no. You have heard well that this is about the threat and the assessment thereof and the acuteness of the situation through which you have to do certain things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u63	Over the past few years we have all been national coach of the Dutch national team and over the past two years we have become a virologist; now, apparently, we all have to become NCTV'er and AIVDer in order to be able to assess a threat that the criminal court has already given an opinion on. Apparently, Mr Arbouw does not think the criminal court can do that. Is that what Mr Arbouw says?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u64	You asked me, and I am also replying to this question about the complementarity of these measures in criminal law. Because administrative law and criminal law are different and are used in a different way on the basis of other considerations, you get that picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u65	I would like to build on this. I hear Mr Arbouw say that criminal law is based on facts and that this is based on a threat picture, to summarize it very briefly. As far as individual administrative measures are concerned, the law also states that they must be based on individual behaviour...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u66	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u67	...and not on a threat image. In recent years, too, there has been an increase in the instruments of criminal law. So more behaviors have been brought under criminal law. Can Mr Arbouw give me an example of individual behaviour which he does not think can be brought under criminal law, but which could give rise to such an administrative measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u68	I do not immediately have all kinds of examples, but yesterday I mentioned the example of that terrorist who took the bus to Schiphol. Well, I think it's perfectly permissible to take the bus. The problem is... well, then it's about intelligence we need. So you are indeed talking about the AIVD, who has to report it. Look, the tricky thing is, of course, that there are situations where the facts that a criminal court needs to act on are not so clear on the front. That's why it's complementary, isn't it? The point is that, from the point of view of administrative law, you have a number of possibilities to impose a ban on territories, for example, so that you can anticipate certain behaviours that you see and say from the knowledge of the files you have: boys, we really need to avoid this for national security. But perhaps the Minister will be able to give some clear examples of this in its term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u69	I hope so very much, because we should not adopt this law if we are not all able to give an example of when these administrative measures could be taken. I hope that Mr Arbouw agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u70	In any case, we have seen seven cases in the WODC report, where it has been applied. In these cases, therefore, that preventive measure has been implemented. We have these examples anyway. My point is that by imposing administrative measures, you still have a more effective view and supervision of the person than without imposing those measures. So you better keep an eye on that person, too. Then you can monitor and influence the behavior we're talking about. That's the power of this bill. As far as my group is concerned, there is enough reason to extend it. Applying it remains a matter of adjusting and weighing and not using powers of this kind if this is not necessary after the balanced judgment, because it is a matter of fundamental rights. On the other hand, I agree with Mrs Bezaan, and I do not agree with everything Mrs Bezaan said earlier, but on this point we cannot afford to be naive. It is important that we have the instruments and the overall package in place in the fight against terrorism. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u71	Thank you. I note that those who had signed up for speaking time have spoken. I am looking around to see if there are any Members of Parliament who would like to speak in this time limit. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-22-eerstekamer-4.u72	That means we'll be looking forward to the government's reaction later this day.
