ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the executives to trade union K: the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. It is the first debate, not for the Prime Minister who has been sitting on it for two days, but for the other three directors this is the start. I wish you every success at this start in the Chamber. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament, journalists in the public gallery and viewers at home. I would like to agree with Members that next Tuesday we are going to vote on the motions tabled. It's a good thing you know that. I would also like to agree with Members that we have four questions or comments to each other and six to the rulers, the same as last time. I would also ask you to keep it in an interruption to a short question or comment without a whole introduction, as you can keep it in your contribution in the first term and second term. I also see a number of new spokesmen. Welcome to them, too. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mrs Tielen of the VVD for her contribution. So like last time, we have four questions or comments to each other in the first term and six to the cabinet. I call Mrs Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is my first corona debate. You can imagine that I have 100 questions and 100 wishes. I'm gonna try to name part of that in these next four minutes. Mr. Chairman. The press conference last Friday was for many a bright spot in this dark corona time, for shopkeepers and hairdressers and their customers, amateur sportsmen and students. The Netherlands has not yet fully opened up, but can take a step forward, a small step forward. But there's no reason for real happiness yet. Horeca entrepreneurs stand empty-handed, events can't plan anything and culture makers still have little view of opening. Mr. Chairman. In addition, a lot of people in the country don't get it anymore either. In Belgium and Germany it is just busy on the terraces. My group is increasingly concerned about the side effects of the virus or, to say it with a saying borrowed from care: surgery passed, patient died. Mr. Chairman. Together, we have managed to prevent code black, partly because of the early and firm intervention in December. That was far from fun but effective. But just making that operation work isn't enough. I want us to keep an eye on society as a whole; I will come back to that later. Because the long term has begun and we have to learn to live with the virus. First of all, on the measures now and next week's decision-making. For my group, the question is: what can be done, what will it take to move forward next week? Entrepreneurs are ready with protocols and a lot of good will to open up again. How does the cabinet make the choice about what can be done? There's so much knowledge, like from the field labs. How is it used in weighing priorities? What's this space that's been going on so many times? I'd like an explanation. My second question is: how can the cabinet better communicate about it? The majority of people feel their own responsibility and want to join in to fight the virus, as long as they understand why and how. Otherwise, they're gonna drop out and we're gonna see that happen. Entrepreneurs don't know what they can do to be able to open up safely. Too many people doubt whether they want to get another vaccine or booster, including their children. Communication about quarantine and mouth caps can also be improved. How is the Minister going to clarify this? Communication is more than transmission. It only works if the message also meets the needs of the recipient. I'm asking the Minister what he's doing to get that insight. How does the cabinet apply insights about the need in the campaigns? I'd like an explanation. And people also want a clear message from what I call the authorities: The Hague, the municipalities, the experts of the OMT. And that's not going as well as sending OMT members on their own advice, decisions and opinions to the media. How's the cabinet looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mrs Tielen's observation is, of course, correct, that, despite the fact that the same virus exists everywhere, it is handled very differently in different countries. What I also note is that we are at an ideological crossroads. Which way are we going? Are we going to lift all the measures like the United Kingdom? Are we going to lift the masks, the homework and the corona tickets or will the Netherlands go along with the path of repression, repression and freedom-limiting measures, such as 2G? My question to Mrs Tielen is whether she is still going on with 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u4	What Mrs Agema does well is to outline the two extremes: on the one hand repression, as she calls it, and on the other hand everything is open. I think it is important that we take steps carefully, also because I want us never to go back. Meanwhile, the virus may have all sorts of surprises in store for us. We've seen that for the past 22 months. In the long term, it is important that we have at our disposal sufficient resources, measures, instruments, whatever term you use, in order to be able to use them when necessary. In what variations, in what situations, at what times, in which regions, I do not know, but we need a palette of measures to be used when it is necessary to ensure that we never have to take another step back. Then maybe 2G could just be one of those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u5	Yes, Mrs Tielen seems to be confused with figures, facts and the newly revised accounting system of TU Delft. The effect of 2G appears to be particularly marginal. And then there is often counted with content based on delta. In reality, the effect will be much smaller when it comes to medical scientific support. I asked about the ideological choice that the VVD is going to make. Is the VVD going to make the ideological choice of saying goodbye to corona tickets, as the United Kingdom is doing very emphatically? Or is the VVD going to make the ideological choice to maintain those restrictions of freedom? There are no medical-scientific arguments. Unvaccinated are just as contagious as vaccinees; vaccinees are often even more contagious. Mrs. Tielen hasn't been doing this file that long. I've been doing it a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u6	A clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u7	What ideological choice will the VVD make? Does she choose corona tickets based solely on ideological considerations of repression, restriction of freedom and repression of certain groups in society? Or are we going back to normal with the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u8	I thought it was a pretty long interruption, Mr. Chairman. Anyway, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u9	Because there's a lot in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mrs Agema claims a number of things, and I was standing there non-verbally reacting to them, which are not entirely correct. About 2G and the report from TU Delft this week. It looked at the effectiveness on the infection of 1G, 2G or 3G. What I think we wanted to see in November is the effect on the pressure on care. And then you might come to a whole different, maybe even higher effectiveness. I don't like repression. Everyone who knows me as a member of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy will recognise that. I am concerned with the pragmatism of a number of measures that you can use in different situations at different times and in different variations. I do not want to exclude things from this, because it can help us to open up society step by step. And that is what I think we all want here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u11	If the VVD wants to do something about the pressure on the care, it needs to do something about the intensivecare capacity. It is far too low in the Netherlands compared to other countries. You were able to see that at the technical briefing this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u12	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u13	But the VVD doesn't. So my question is: how can it be that the VVD opts for something like a corona admission certificate when it comes to reducing hospital admissions, where a division is made in society, a division that now stands for 6.6 million people who haven't gotten a booster shot? Will the VVD deny 6.6 million people access to cafes, cinemas, non-essential shops, zoos? That's my question. Will the VVD support 2G and exclude from society 6.6 million Dutch people who didn't get the booster shot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u14	The sad thing is that Mrs Agema doesn't really listen to what I'm saying. What I am saying is that measures are needed to be able to use in different situations at different times in order to remain open. What Mrs Agema is now saying about 2G and zoos... we are not at all there yet. We still have to have that discussion here in the Chamber. Mrs Agema had two more questions in one interruption. If she asks what the VVD is doing about its ic capacity, I would point out that we have supported plans over the last few years to increase its ic capacity. In addition, increasing ic capacity is really not a solution. You yourself have seen those people who sit there and take their breath and try to keep them alive with all kinds of snakes in their bodies. To pursue that with all of us is not what we want, I think. And I don't think Mrs. Agema wants that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u15	Your last question, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mrs. Tielen blows very high off the tower, but she doesn't know the facts. We still have half less ic capacity than the average in European countries. When you talk about the wave and the dike, I say: we have such a small dike and that wave talks to it every time. There is nothing in the coalition agreement but a flexible scale. That's exactly what's happening now. There will be a corona wave, then there will be some scaling up, but at the same time there will also be scaled down on the regular care, the operations and the treatments. And if the VVD isn't willing to come up with a substantial, structural investment in hospitals and increasing ic capacity, we're going from lockdown to lockdown for years to come. That's because of the VVD, and it's going to be the same with 2G.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u18	'Cause it's not like when you get your third shot, you're not contagious anymore. Because there are too many examples left. At superspreading events people are still infected, like the 70 out of 173 at a Christmas party in Malaga: 40% just got infected with three shots.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u19	I'm almost looking forward to a quiz with Mrs. Agema on fact-finding. She almost dares me to do that. I do not feel like screaming all kinds of percentages and numbers in the Chamber now. What I think is important, and what we all want in this Chamber and in this country, is a step-by-step move towards "open." There are a number of things that need to be done. We need vaccination, we need boosters, we need corona tickets. The care capacity is also needed, not only in the ic's and hospitals, but also in long-term care. All these things together we need to have at our disposal to weigh at what time the virus comes back with surprises to be resistant to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u20	At that same point. I also looked at TU Delft's research. It just says: "Omikron withdraws from 2G. People who have previously been infected, cured or vaccinated may still be infected by omikron, so 2G does not work for that." But 2G does have an effect, because previously radicalisation experts have said: 2G increases polarization, 2G increases oppositions, 2G increases resistance. Then you can't seriously say "we're going to enter 2G" when you know that it doesn't or hardly affect the infections, even more so, that it can give a false positive image, and that you're going to greatly increase the resistance in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u21	I would, however, ask Members not to give any detailed introductions. I asked for the interruptions to be limited to brief questions or comments. I understand that you want to give some context, but it shouldn't be very contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u22	I don't think anyone heard me say that I'd like to enter 2G anywhere. I don't want to. I don't think it's the best choice either. I don't want a virus at all. But what I do want is to look at what we have at our disposal to use at certain times, with certain virus variations in certain circumstances, to keep society somewhat open. That doesn't always mean 2G everywhere, no, I'm not saying that at all. I'm just saying we're not convinced yet that we should rule it out. I think we really need things. I just mentioned the whole row. But I'm not gonna cross 2G off the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u23	We are only at the beginning of the debate. I see an opening already, who knows how far we are at the end. But there is something I want to say, and I really want to respond to that. Those radicalisation experts say it increases polarization. That really is the very last thing we need in the Netherlands. Mrs. Tielen agrees with me on that, doesn't she? Does she take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u24	Mrs Tielen very much agrees with Mr Wassenberg. And I think, quite frankly, there are more things that increase polarization. You and I speak various people, entrepreneurs, culture makers, young people. At all a lockdown increases all the polarization. So yes, there must be a criterion. I will come back later to talk about how I think we might be able to give the Corona policy some broader objectives. But I agree with Mr Wassenberg that it is an important element, certainly. And I'm worried about that, too, if that's a good addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u25	I heard Mrs. Tielen from the VVD rewrite history. She said: the lockdown we just had at Christmas was actually a fine example of intervention on time and being well prepared for what is to come. Of course it isn't. Mr Van Ranst, the Belgian Jaap van Dissel, has said this very clearly. The reason why the Netherlands was in a lockdown was a. because of the government policy we were late with the boosters and b. because of the shortage of beds in the hospitals, so we had zero margin with the virus that was coming. That's why we had a lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u26	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u27	I would like to ask Mrs Tielen whether she agrees that the lockdown was not a smart and sensible policy, but a necessity because the cabinet stood with its back against the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u28	I don't think I gave a big compliment on the lockdown with very warm words. If it did, I'll take it back. I certainly don't like rewriting history. So far. What we saw in December certainly has to do with the booster campaign which started quite late and which is still not where we want it to be. I believe that my colleague Aukje de Vries also mentioned this in December. The omikron variant had completely unknown elements in it, but it was clear that there was a lot more infectiousness attached to it. According to the models, it's a pretty heavy procedure. We've been able to avert these huge models. What's that all about? That will be due to different variations. That's not one dimensional. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u29	My second question concerns the capacity of hospitals. That is one of the reasons why we have not been able to keep society more open in recent weeks. We have major shortages in care. The government is coming up with a new savings agreement of 1.5 billion, which further undermines healthcare capacity. Here's what I want to ask the VVD. If she thinks that society should remain as open as possible, does she agree with the SP that that also means investing in the capacity in care and that you need more capacity so that you can avoid lockdowns, and that you need to strike a line through the €1.5 billion savings agreement that this cabinet wants to spread over care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u30	When it comes to budget cuts, I always think of graphs going down. Quite frankly, the charts with care costs for the coming years do not go down. So we have a very different picture of what cuts are and what is not. I believe that the measures relating to the fight against corona pandemics include additional funds to scale up the ic capacity where necessary. It's about more than beds and ventilators. You know that, too. That's also about people and smart hands. So I believe that in this conversation we are talking side by side, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u31	I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then to Mr Kuzu of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mrs Tielen says she wants more space or hopes for entrepreneurs. It is, of course, a bit strange that the VVD has been supporting all kinds of measures that entrepreneurs have completely screwed up over the past two years. It's funny to see that starts with data. It goes to the OMT, who gives an opinion. That comes in the cabinet and is then supported here by a large part of the people. Now it turns out, as I've called out a long time ago, that that data is completely polluted. It is then introduced in models. This morning there was a beautiful piece in De Telegraaf. All kinds of hospital directors say that the data is contaminated. 30% of the people on the ICU are there with corona. Does Mrs Tielen agree with me that, like the Prime Minister has said all the time, we are in the fog, looking in the rearview mirror and not knowing anything at all? We've made the most dystopian, weird decisions. The whole business has been keeled. Shouldn't we forget all about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u33	I do not know exactly what Mr Van Haga's question is. If he's talking about how we need more knowledge to predict the future, that's true, of course. No one can predict the future. What omikron suddenly came to do and how that works out, we still don't quite know. I believe that the illusion that we can predict the future must be ignored. Mr. Van Haga says we need good data to at least make a probability forecast. That's what RIVM has been working hard on over the past 22 months. Totally. How do we make sure that the data is very good? I'd rather it's better, too. At the same time, if an ic nurse is going to have to do all kinds of difficult administrative things somewhere so that we have some sharper data here, then I do not know if that is so much better. I do not know exactly what Mr Van Haga is asking of me. I think I can go a long way with him, but I can't go a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u34	It's very simple. A year ago, I got hoarded because I was gonna spread fake news. I then told you what I heard from ic-doctors about people who got hit by a car accident. They ended up on the ICU. There they got a stick in their nose, after which they were registered as a corona patient. Now Maurice van den Bosch and Joost van Galen of the Amsterdam UMC say exactly the same. The fact is, the data doesn't add up. My question is not whether you can predict the future differently. My question is whether you agree with me that on the basis of these data we have made dystopian, weird decisions that have gone far too far. We've been shot into an anxiety cramp by wrong data. That's why these models have always predicted the wrong things. Do you agree with me that we should stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u35	I think we're in fear because we've seen some pretty intense things, especially in the first waves of the corona pandemic, and because we had absolutely no control over what happened. I don't think it's so crazy that someone who's brought in with a broken pelvis gets a stick in his nose, because on the workplace it's quite relevant whether someone's infected or not. It could be on the ic next to someone else who might be very sensitive to the coronavirus. So that happens to the people who are brought into the hospital, isn't that crazy. If we say this has to be registered differently because we don't know otherwise, then I don't know if it's worth it. So, in the end, I'm sticking to my answer. We need models to be able to make a somewhat probable prediction of the future, but it must also be practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u36	We've had two years to register things better. If you had had this comment in March 2020, I could have understood that, and I would have forgiven you. But after two years, we are still in the situation that the VVD is responsible, along with the other coalition parties, that our entire society is disrupted and that the whole business is in trouble. And you say, "I don't know if that's necessary." No, the data is wrong, the models are wrong and we are in a total anxiety cramp shot by your data, your models and your approval of this policy. That's gotta stop. Let's just do that together as soon as possible, because we now know it's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u37	Thank you. I didn't really hear a question in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u38	I didn't really hear a question in it either, and I don't think it's entirely right for Mr Van Haga to put one party or one person on the line with total responsibility. I think we are all responsible for this. There is a cabinet that takes decisions on the basis of data, ideological and political considerations and practical consequences that we all do not care about. Then there is a Chamber that gives input and sometimes makes additional decisions. That makes us all responsible. I think we should continue to do so. I do not think Mr Van Haga has a better model for making predictions. If it is, I'd like to look at it. But I think that we should really look at the data provided by the RIVM, which is updated weekly to the current situation. We have heard the actual data this morning. Maybe we can do better than that. Well, then let's ask how to do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'm not accusing one party. I accuse all four parties in the coalition alike, but the VVD is the largest party and also a liberal party, so it should have something else in it. In addition, 150 people die a day from cancer. 100 people die a day from cardiovascular disease. There's hardly anyone dying of corona. In two years, I believe 87 people under 45 have died of corona. And yet we have put the whole society in total disarray, in total fear. I do blame the VVD, but also the CDA, the Christian Union and D66. What I find so strange is that now that we know that those data are wrong, you are still considering entering 2G and still keeping the whole country in lockdown. I blame you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u41	I'd love to go through the chairman. Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u42	I do not know whether Mrs Tielen would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u43	I don't think I'm going to say anything else than in the previous reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u44	I'm fine with it, because Mrs Tielen is right. We are jointly responsible here for the choices we make. Of course, the choices we make and the decisions we make have an impact on society. We have seen this recently in the catering industry, the entrepreneurs, the pupils, the young people. We have seen countless groups pass by. Today, during Mr Van Dissel's technical briefing, we heard that the models we have were rather pessimistic. I asked him how he found that in retrospective. He said, "That's an assessment question." That's what he actually said: that's something for politics. I'm asking you. How do you assess the choices we have made just before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u45	During the technical briefing, Mr Kuzu asked Mr Van Dissel: what would you say with the knowledge of today about the decision of that time? In hindsight you look a cow in the ass, I think they say in the Achterhoek. Of course, that's too easy. At that time, with the available data and the enormous uncertainty surrounding the omikron variant, of which we knew one thing, namely that it was countless times more contagious than the delta variant, we stood for a time when we were also expecting people to look for each other much more. Quite frankly, when I saw these measures announced, I also got a lump in the throat, especially since it was until 14 January. But with the knowledge and, above all, the lack of knowledge we had at the time, I think it had to be that way. But I also think it is a good thing that we are now a step forward. I am also going to ask that this be maintained and that we continue to move forward. Because, once again, I think we all want it to be a bit ordinary again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u46	As far as I am concerned, that is also the difference between a scientist and a politician. I also understand that a scientist, like Mr Van Dissel, states: with the information I had at the time, I had to advise. It is up to a politician to assess the social consequences of this, to look more broadly at what is happening around us. We have not seen anywhere in the world, at least not in our neighbouring countries, that such stringent measures have been taken as in the Netherlands. So we can stare blindly at models on the wrong assumptions made in the past, but we can also look at what countries around us are doing. How does the VVD view the measures we have taken in the Netherlands in relation to, for example, Belgium, Germany, France and Great Britain? Nowhere in the world have we seen such stringent measures as here. How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u47	Well, there were also a lot of other differences with all those countries around us. 2G is already quite normal in some countries. In some countries vaccination is already quite normal, especially in some professions. Testing for access is far from free everywhere. From the mortality rate in some countries, I'm getting a lump in my throat. It's very easy to take out one dimension and then say: we're the worst boy in the class. It is also easy to take another dimension out and say: we are the best boy in the class. In the end, we must weigh in this Chamber what is ultimately proposed by the cabinet, with the aim of supplementing this in my contribution to opening up step by step, despite the fact that the virus is no longer leaving.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB and then to Mrs Pouw-Verweij from JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u49	I would like to come back to what Mrs Tielen just said in response to Mr Van Haga. Mr Van Haga was quite clear. He says: people come through a car accident or something else in the hospital, get a stick in the nose and are registered as covid patients. Mrs Tielen says: if someone comes to the hospital with a broken pelvis, I think it is quite logical that he gets a stick in his nose, because people work there and they can be infected. But that is not at all what Mr Van Haga says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u50	What is your question to Mrs Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u51	I'll get to that. Mr van Haga says, and this is also said by doctors, that they are then registered as covid patients and that the figures are not correct. I would like Mrs Tielen to respond to that, not to the stick in the nose, but to the crooked figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u52	I understood very well what Mr Van Haga said. I can imagine very well, but I'm not sitting on the bed, that it's very important in a hospital that somewhere in a patient's file says he's a covid patient, because there are all kinds of aspects to that. If we don't want that hospital file containing the information that Mr or Mrs covid patient is on all kinds of routes to the RIVM, then we need an additional registration. That's possible, but yes, is that practical?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mrs Tielen, the whole society is locked!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u54	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u55	People commit suicide, companies go bankrupt, and people have fallen into depression. There's a huge dichotomy. You say: yes, you can, but I do not know if all that is very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u56	Yes. I know...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u57	Wait a minute. Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mrs. Tielen, would you like to make sure that the registration goes well? The whole country is being destroyed!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u59	I sympathize very well with Mrs. Van der Plas. Again, I will come back to that in a moment. The other point is that we here in this Chamber are constantly complaining about the administrative burden on healthcare workers. I'm careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u60	My question is about the exact same thing, so I'm happy to take over. By the way, I have a bit of a frog in my throat. I've been tested and it's not a corona, but if I sound a little crazy, you know there's nothing else going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u61	So far, we haven't heard you sound any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u62	No, don't you notice? Okay. I'll only hear it myself. That's nice. Saves people at home. Regarding registration and how it works: it seems quite natural to register a dbc for someone with covid, because you have to take into account isolation measures and so on. I couldn't agree more. But we're asking for those numbers of patients because we want to know how much pressure there is on different departments because of covid. For that the recording reason is important and not what happens during a recording. In particular, we want to know how much new growth of patients there is because of covid, not how many people get it in the hospital, it happens to have et cetera. Apart from that registration: can we agree that reporting from the RIVM should be directed towards people who come to the hospital because of covid? Because then we can make a good assessment of our policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u63	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u65	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u66	I was going to talk about the RIVM behavior study, which also confirms that people have less and less understanding of it. These percentages show that the level of support is still quite high, but as the RIVM also writes, the personal costs of compliance, such as reduced well-being, monotony and loneliness, no longer outweigh the benefits it can bring to others. If "only together we can control corona" means that one makes sacrifices while others go their own way, then we only lose it together. Or as I said before, surgery passed, patient died. The three objectives of the corona policy are: to keep an eye on the virus, to keep the strength of care acceptable and to protect the vulnerable. But the people we always consider to be strong and flexible are now becoming vulnerable. I call entrepreneurs, young people and culture makers. The long term has begun, and it is time for the Corona policy to have a broader goal, to preserve the energy in our society, to preserve the entrepreneurial power and creativity and to remain resilient. Care for the real vulnerable, such as the elderly, must also be well organised. Does the Minister agree with me and can the Minister explain how he can bring these objectives, models and the latest and most up-to-date insights into this policy? I have a few loose questions very quickly. Is there sufficient test capacity? I've seen some letters about that. Are there enough mouth caps for the new advice? And when does the cabinet come up with an appreciation of TU Delft's research into 1G, 2G and 3G? I look forward to working with this Chamber and with this cabinet on a policy that helps to reopen our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you, Mrs Tielen. There is another interruption by Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u68	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Tielen on her contribution. We know each other from the Social Affairs Committee, but here she does even better. You understand that I want some of Mrs. Tielen's.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u69	I'm getting alert!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u70	Exactly. I think the VVD has always been known as a party with a warm heart for entrepreneurs. You can find all kinds of things from the past period.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... We also see municipalities ringing the bell and asking: what is the long-term perspective for shops and services in all kinds of places in the Netherlands? I'm going to put the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u71	And your question to Mrs. Tielen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u72	It's coming about now. I am going to ask the question to discuss the long-term perspective with these municipalities. My question is: is the VVD looking forward to that and would it support this demand to give entrepreneurs, municipalities and especially all those who go into the shopping streets a perspective? There'll still be a shopping street where you can go, won't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u73	The same applies, of course, to catering companies, cultural entrepreneurs, etcetera, etcetera. We had a sort of roadmap a long time ago, so everyone felt that he had a hold on what were the next steps. I would very much like to know, even for next week, what we are actually going to look at. For example, there is a lot of discussion in the media about the contagion rates. People say: don't look at the infection rates, because the omikron variant has a completely different course. So what's the cabinet going to look at and what can entrepreneurs look at to know if they can open and stay open? In addition, I think Mr Stoffer is talking about even the shopping streets where entrepreneurs simply don't seem to return because the shutters are closed. I think it is very good to call on the municipalities to do so. But I think it has to come from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u74	Thank you, Mrs Tielen, for kicking off as new spokesperson corona. I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66, also a new spokesman on the corona dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since March 2020, the world has turned upside down and so has my life and that of my family. At the start of the crisis I still worked in a small hospital in beautiful Groningen. It was then all hands on deck to be ready for the region, but also especially to receive patients from Brabant. We've been here almost two years. In the meantime I have been very sick myself. This is my first Corona debate in the Chamber. To be honest, I'm looking forward to the moment we get out of crisis mode and think: oh yes, corona is still there. My most important questions for today are therefore the following. When will we have more perspective for the long term? How do we ensure that we do not continue to move from measure to measure, and back again? What difficult political decisions are needed for this, for example on new booster campaigns, on care capacity, on ventilation, on mouth caps and on having corona tickets ready or not? I see that countries around us have been better prepared and have dealt with omikron quite differently. They made political choices that didn't require lockdowns. I would like to receive a reflection on this from both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. We must not become the lockdown country of Europe. Mr. Chairman. There's more than corona. That's what the cabinet showed at the press conference. For example, half of the students experience fear or gloom and one in three Dutch people have started to exercise less. I am therefore very pleased that in sport, MBO and higher education it proved possible to relax. But I also see that some institutions are still closed and that in primary and secondary education there are many children at home. How can the cabinet support them? Not only children and young people, but also their parents long for physical education. Mr. Chairman. It is without prejudice to the restrictions imposed on the catering company, the theatre maker and the museum director. What is the strategy and timeline for financial support in the coming period? For museums, it's still weird that you can buy art now, but you can't go and see it. In addition to the cultural sector's roadmap, can the cabinet also see whether museums can be equated with shops? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to a sector that also wants to open up: the care. There is still a lot of delayed care, about 115,000 surgeries. These are heart patients, cancer patients, people waiting for a new hip, people for whom life has also stood still for a long time. That is why I ask: what if it turns out that omikron requires fewer and shorter ic-recordings? How can we give care and staff more space? The CDA and D66 have previously tabled a motion on this, but I found the Minister's reply rather brief. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Minister for Justice and Security had very strong words for the cultural sector. The actions were not allowed, not tolerated. But only a week earlier, when some shops opened the doors, she expressed herself many times more mildly. Then it was turned aside, a difference of day and night. So I ask her: what is her commitment for the coming period? People crave clarity, even for mayors. What is it going to do to support enforcers and those who monitor compliance? Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a few specific questions. When do we expect clarity about the corona pass and booster? Why wait again for a Health Council opinion on the fourth injection when we see that Israel, Spain and Denmark are already choosing it? And what is the value of the recovery certificate now that omikron rules? Finally, a very, very big compliment to the GGD for the incredible booster campaign of the past period. If you haven't gotten your shots or your booster yet, please do it for yourself and for your surroundings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Kuzu van DENK, and then one by Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u77	"We must not become the lockdown country of Europe." Those are nice words. I also needed to see which political party Mrs Paulusma belongs to. It's D66. That's great. She also said in her contribution: what is the value of a recovery certificate now that omikron rules? I was wondering why you asked that question. Where do you want to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u78	I asked that question to the cabinet, because D66 still stands for an open and free society. That won't be a surprise for you. We would very much like to know what it takes to become that and to stay that way. So we're looking for what's needed in the toolbox. What do these instruments have to comply with in order to remain open as a society? I'm very curious about the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr Kuzu, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u80	"An open and free society..." I think that in the country I have few people who have experienced it that way, at least in the last month. Mrs Paulusma asks what is needed in the toolbox and mentions, among other things, 2G. We know that D66, at least your predecessor, Mr Paternotte, was a huge supporter of the 2G policy. It could all be more: 2G-plus, with 1G added. It all had to be more and more. As a party, now that you have also seen the conclusions of TU Delft, are you still so warm about the 2G policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'm still very happy with what science is getting us, so I'm very happy with this research. This also shows that omikron is a completely different variant than the previous one, with also the warning that the next variant is probably another. We would very much like to be prepared for that. This means that we do not want to get things out of the toolbox or the first aid box, but that we want to be prepared for what is to come, so that we can remain open, open schools, do not unite young people, do not overload the care, open the culture and open the terrace again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u82	I think one of the biggest risks in politics is that you want something very badly, that you stare at it blindly and that you don't look at what's going on around you anymore, at changing circumstances, but also at what science says. Last week we received a report which clearly shows that more testing is more effective in reducing both infections and hospitalisations. Then I would like to ask Mrs Paulusma whether, with that report in hand, she is not prepared to say: yes, we have missed out over the last few months and we are going to see with the Chamber how we can use other means, for example more tests to make much more possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u83	Perhaps to remove a misunderstanding: it is not an end in itself. We look, on the basis of science, at all kinds of instruments to ensure that society remains open and that care is not as overburdened as it has been. If we don't need instruments at all, I'm really the first to raise my hand. So it's not an end in itself, it's a means. If this is in the toolbox or in the first aid box, it still doesn't mean we need to use this. But I would like to be better prepared, and so I am open to anything that helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u84	No one says that this is an end in itself, but the wretched thing about this report is that it actually says that if we had been committed to more tests in recent times, there would have been more possible. I find that agitated, because it is precisely that blind staring at a measure like 2G that stopped us from betting on more tests, which would have been more possible in recent times and perhaps in the near future. If this report says so clearly that more should be devoted to testing, we may be able to make more possible in the cultural sector and in stadiums. Shouldn't we now decide to put 2G aside and bet on much more tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yes, but you're actually saying that you blame me for focusing on 2G. That report also makes it very clear that this is the suggestion that you should actually do it again every month, because the variation, the difference and everything that is happening is changing so quickly. So I don't want to rule anything out. Let the instrument box be as large as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u86	Mrs Paulusma is aware that we have abolished the one and a half meter measure at some point. Does Mrs. Paulusma know why that happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u87	That's a very good question. I may have dared to say that we were too quick with that. I don't know exactly why we did that at the time, but I think Mrs Kuik is going to give me the answer to that. My question for the long term is therefore also to look more carefully at all the measures we have now and at the science to see what we should or should not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u88	That was taken out because it was no longer considered proportionate. This is also an important value in our Constitution and in our rule of law: you only do things as long as they are proportionate. So I want to look at all kinds of measures with an open mind. But it has to be effective. Then it has to be proportional. You can't put it in a toolbox in advance for a like-dance situation. I hope that Mrs Paulusma, on the basis of the rule of law, a legal framework in which we live, also understands that you cannot simply do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u89	I fully agree with Mrs Kuik on the proportionality of measures, but the same also applies to those who are once again in a lockdown and have no perspective. We are not really prepared for another variant and then let us continue this debate, which is oh so important, and put people back in a lockdown. And that's not... I don't know if it's proportional, but at least it's not just to those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u90	No, but nobody says that either. You just can't put all kinds of things in a toolbox for a like-dance situation. If necessary, we can introduce legislation in a week. I want to look at things with an open mind when they are effective, proportionate, but I also want to warn that we are going to find opportunity arguments to fill up that toolbox. My final reasoning is that this will also increase mistrust. It was first because it was necessary to open up that society, now not to trigger unvaccinated tourism in the border region, and so we are every time making up arguments why you would want to do something. And that's what grows division. That's what's causing unrest. So I would really like to urge that, if we add measures to that toolbox, they should be proportionate and effective. Then you have to do the same with the right arguments. I'd like to call D66 to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u91	You're nodding, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u92	I don't think I hear a question, but an invitation. I always accept the invitation to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u93	When I learned that Mr Paternotte would be replaced by Mrs Paulusma, I went to see who she was. Then I ended up on the website of D66, where there's a piece of your hand. It says, I quote: "I think it is important that everyone can participate in our society on the basis of equivalence." Then I expected Mrs Paulusma to do everything in her power to prevent unvaccinated people from being excluded from society. I am therefore surprised that she was just on fire here defending the 2G policy. How does that relate to each other? Does Mrs Paulusma now want everyone to be able to participate in society, or does she want unvaccinated people to be discriminated against, stigmatized and excluded from social life?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u94	The latter are the words of Mr Van Meijeren. Yes, I still support my words. We want to take measures to protect society and ourselves from something that, unfortunately, I know personally can be extremely ill and have a long period of after-effects. Those measures must certainly be proportionate, but they are there to protect us, so that people do not die from a disease that we do not yet have medicines for and do not have a lung covid. That is my commitment to society and here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u95	Why does Mrs Paulusma expect the 2G policy to help people get less ill? All the evidence suggests that this is an enormous damage to our public health, as well as almost all the other measures that are being taken. Common sense also says that 2G doesn't make sense. We all know that vaccinees can also get and transfer the virus. In the meantime, this is also confirmed by science, of which Mrs Paulusma has such a high regard. So what argument do you have for the 2G policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u96	We sail on what science says. And we will continue to do so. In that we are critical and will always ask questions. We'll never spread news that we don't know for sure where it came from. Nor will we ever say things that prevent people from being vaccinated. We sail on the advice and then have a very good discussion in our group and on that basis we form our opinion. I'm sticking with it. We need to be prepared. We also see it abroad, that countries that have a more extensive toolbox are better prepared for that which is going to come, which makes it impossible to exclude worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u97	I have still not heard any arguments for the 2G policy. Mrs Paulusma relies on science. Just last week, a study has been published showing that the 2G policy is totally ineffective. And we are going to prepare ourselves for all kinds of possible hypothetical future scenarios and introduce all kinds of freedom-limiting measures, of which I say: let us wait until these doom scenarios actually occur, but let us not take measures in advance that could exclude entire sections of the population from social life.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u98	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u99	My question is whether Mrs Paulusma wants to either revise her position or at least change the part on the website, because it is clear that she cares very little about whether everyone can participate in social life. That is, in any case, a factual error.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u100	Let me interpret this as a suggestion. I'm not taking over.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u101	At the end of last year, we saw that the tickets did not help to prevent a very rapid increase in the number of infections, nor did they help to prevent a new lockdown. We now have the research that shows that 2G tickets are only going to do something very limited about slowing down the number of infections. Then my question is as follows. At the moment we see that the cabinet, as well as the coalition, accepts that the measures taken could increase the number of infections to 100,000 a day. Maybe a little more, maybe a little less. Those are numbers we've never seen before. Then how can we accept these numbers that go through the roof sky high, that D66 in the head is still working on measures like 2G and tickets, which should have an inhibitory effect on the number of infections?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u102	I think that's two different things. Omikron ensures that the infections go skyhigh, which makes us all proverbial here. You were in the same technical briefing I did this morning. That's where Van Dissel said that 2G definitely does something. He mentioned a certain percentage, with which he said, perhaps in anticipation of tomorrow, I do not know: that could be a percentage with which the catering industry can open. It's not an end in itself. The only thing D66 wants is for society to open and stay. Everyone pretends that we want to introduce it tomorrow, but we do not shy away from preparing instruments, not to be attacked every time we have been robbed over the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u103	Last question, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u104	That percentage was mentioned. That's the 16% percentage. That is what Mr Van Dissel called it. The Ministry also mentioned that percentage. If you look at the study's report, you can see that that 16% reduction in the reproduction number goes on in those cases where you would introduce 2G in all situations except at home and at school. So 2G everywhere, except at home and at school. In the fictional models you come to 16% reduction in the reproduction number. Then I ask Mrs Paulusma: if you embrace this research and this number in this way, do you think that, if you choose 2G, this should apply to all situations except at home and at school?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u105	Mr. Hijink, what we want is to be prepared for another variant. It looks different every time than the variant before. This isn't just about 2G. My predecessor has written a long-term plan on what we really need to do to be better prepared. I brought that. There are a lot of other things in there that also need time. I would find it such a shame to keep saying afterwards: if only we had started the preparations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mrs Paulusma is talking about her own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mrs Paulusma just said: we are engaged in scientific research. Last week's study shows a 0.7% reduction compared to 3G. That's negligible. 2G is a very far-reaching measure, far beyond a 3G ticket or other proposals we have heard here. We know from the scientific report that this only reduces 0.7%. Then what is the consideration of Mrs Paulusma's party of D66 to introduce 2G or put it in the tool basket?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u108	It's gonna be a little awkward, at least for myself, because I'm gonna repeat my words. We're not saying we want to enter it tomorrow. I say we're always surprised by a new variant. We see abroad that they have a more extensive toolbox, which leaves society open. I don't want to keep thinking, we were late. I am not saying that we should introduce it tomorrow, but that we should be better prepared. Then next to 2G there are a lot of other parts in that toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u109	I hope this does not go away from my interruptions, because this is not an answer to my question. Mr Hijink did not just receive an answer to his question. That is possible, but if we are dealing with a party that says 'we are going on scientific research', let us have that good discussion here on the basis of the facts. And I'm afraid that's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs Paulusma. Oh, there's another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u111	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u112	I had already assumed that, Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u113	I'm gonna go help Mrs Westerveld, too. Mrs Paulusma says: we are engaged in scientific research. Then I just have a very simple question for Mrs. Paulusma. This morning Mr Van Dissel said: the model is as good as the assumption. So it's that vague. If Mrs Paulusma has to choose, does she choose someone who says "the model is as good as the assumption" or an authority that has tested something scientifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u114	I do not think I fully understood Mrs van der Plas' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mrs. Van der Plas...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u116	Before I get the accusation that I'm not answering, I'd like to hear the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u117	Mrs. Van der Plas, please try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u118	I'm gonna try again. It's not gonna go away from my interruptions, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u119	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u120	You've got a Jaap van Dissel, president of the OMT I don't have to make it personal that assumes assumptions and models. The OMT looks at what is happening in other countries and bases a model on it and then it could be that... The last time that went sideways, didn't come true at all. Mr Van Dissel says: the model is as good as the assumption. That's kind of vague. TU Delft takes a scientific test and says that 2G and 3G do not work, briefly put down. I just heard that Mrs. Paulusma wants to start with science. If you had to weigh those two, who do you believe? Let me explain it that simple. Do you believe someone who works with assumptions and models or do you believe someone who tests something scientifically and says: it just can't? Then what are you going for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u121	I think Mrs. Van der Plas... both work with models, assumptions, tests, dates and then come to a conclusion. TU Delft has done so on a specific subject with this variant. The OMT is doing so on the basis of objectives that we have agreed here. That's not an equation. They're both doing research. One has done it specifically on a cut and the OMT is doing it for us. Yes, the predictions may have been different, but we have taken measures to prevent something very bad. Those measures seem to have worked. And then it's always very easy afterwards to say: we shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u122	I understand very well that Mrs Paulusma says: we want the widest possible toolbox and we want to look open to the future, because we just don't know what will happen with new variants. I just got the question from a journalist: what if the next variant gets much worse? Yeah, then we have a whole different situation. Maybe the variant gets a lot less bad. Anything's possible. It's a We don't know. We do know that there is a group in society that is very much concerned about the introduction of 2G, which is afraid to be excluded and so on. Would Mrs Paulusma at least like to comment on the situation at the moment, on the short-term that we can now foresee? Does it wish to reassure these people that, at least in the short term, there are no plans to introduce 2G? We can talk about the long, long term with other scary variants if they present themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u123	You are a bit searching for the answer whether or not we want to exclude people. No, that's not D66's intention at all. We want sectors that are currently struggling enormously to remain open to the cultural sector, the catering industry and the business sector. We are very open-minded in it. I'd like to mention the first aid kit to you, because I was hoping you'd come. You also hope it's well-stocked for every random accident that's gonna happen to you. Then you hope it's within reach and someone added it for you. That's how I look at this toolbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u124	I get that. I didn't use the word "exclusion" myself, by the way. I'm saying there's a group that's afraid of that. But if we continue with the example of the first aid box, I say the following. Suppose my toddler has a small wound, and I'm gonna get him the first aid kit. I just want to use a Band-Aid out of it, and he's asking, "But, Mom, I'm not getting a shot, am I?" Then I'll leave that needle in the first aid box, but then I'll reassure him: "No boy, you've only got a wound now, so we're not gonna use that needle." That's what I'm asking for. There's a group that's really worried that we're gonna get a big shot. Among other things, my party says: at least we're not going to; we're just using the Band-Aids. What does your party say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u125	I am so glad that we can continue to talk about this example, because we agree on that. However, we will add that if the opinion is on the table, that more sectors can be opened up with a somewhat larger measure than with the patch, I think the comparison with the thick syringe is a bit unfortunate, then at that time I would very much like to have the debate with you in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u126	I've had a long doubt about interrupting here. Mrs Paulusma began her story by saying: D66 wants to open society. That sounded like music to me as a member of Party for the Animals, because that's what we want. Only, how can you say with dry eyes "we want to open society" by keeping it closed to a substantial part of the population? 'Cause that's what 2G comes down to. What we know is that it doesn't or doesn't help against Omikron. But what I said in a previous interrupting debate is that it does increase the contradictions. My question is: how can you say "we want to open society" by keeping it essentially closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u127	Mr Wassenberg, we share those concerns, because I heard my colleague say the same about polarisation in society. I also hate what is happening and I see in my own environment that people no longer see each other or even greet each other, because the contradiction has become so great. That is still separate from all the violence that is being stirred up in different places. But I also think that polarization is there because we're in lockdowns for so long. And I get that. I have the same struggle. You don't want to rule anyone out. And if we don't have to, then we don't want to. But what we no longer want is to end up in a lockdown again, which seems to take longer and longer, because we weren't prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u128	Thank you very much, Mrs Paulusma. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last month, we were the only countries in Europe in a hard lockdown. We go from lockdown to lockdown, because we have half less ic-capacity than the average in European countries, and our government is not prepared to raise it structurally, and because our modelers were horribly wrong the last time. They're gonna answer for that? No. Anybody getting on? No. It is a blow to the face of all those entrepreneurs who could unnecessarily throw away their Christmas gifts, Christmas dresses and fresh Christmas goods, and yet not fully compensated. And it's a fist in the face of all those cafes, restaurants, amusement parks, zoos, cinemas and all the other things that are still closed by the government. The cabinet needs to invest structuralally in our hospitals. That's what our brand-new VWS minister thinks. During his last technical briefing, Dr. Kuipers said that investing in ic capacity and in hospitals is necessary. I'm guessing he doesn't have an active memory of that anymore. Because even though the new minister said at the press conference that we have entered a new phase of the pandemic, he does not change the policy. Two thirds of the Dutch no longer have any confidence in the corona policy. They long for change and come true. The new government's plans for hospitals are ruthless. A 0% reduction in the volume growth rate next year, the bill of catch-up care is deposited with the premium contributor, it remains flexible rather than structuralally scaling up the ic's and new main agreements will push the hospitals even further into the swamp. We have indeed entered a new phase of the pandemic. All over the world, countries are at a crossroads. Which direction is chosen? The ones of France and Germany, with 2G, demonstrations, exclusions and violence? Or those of the United Kingdom, where isolation, quarantine, homework, masks and corona tickets are abolished? It's an ideological choice. The same virus rages everywhere. 92% of the 60-plussers achieved the booster and protected themselves as much as possible. More than 6.5 million adults in the Netherlands did not reach the booster. That actually blew up the corona tickets. I cannot imagine that the government will deny more than 6.5 million adult Dutch people access to catering, zoos, amusement parks, a large part of shops, gyms, associations, vocational training, higher education or work. So I say, day 2G. Our new VWS minister is a doctor. That's good. He knows his business. There is much work to be done to restore confidence in the government's corona policy. It's time for a new corona policy. However, the decisions before us do not bear witness to this. Hoods work and make sense to remove pressure from the boiler during peak moments, should hospitals be threatened to defect and operations and treatments scaled down. But we do not agree with the decision to leave young people in classrooms, and I am so angry about that, Mr President, to keep mouth caps on all day long. What are you thinking? Young people must be able to absorb oxygen without hindrance. They have to perform. The government needs to arrange proper ventilation in the classrooms. Now. The government has to make firing affordable again and arrange ionization. Corona doesn't like dry, well ventilated, ionized air. The decision to wear outdoor masks is absurd. In not one of RIVM's weekly states, the outdoor air is mentioned as a possible place of contamination. However, rioters and thieves make use of mouth caps outside to avoid detection. Against the huge expansion of the mouth caps is the decision to lift the quarantine for those who have had or been boosted corona. There is no medical scientific justification for this. In this way, all measures become useless. Infections occur mainly within households. After all, vaccinees are at least as contagious. If you don't want our country to get jammed by quarantine, you're gonna lift it for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u130	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fact that restaurants, museums and theatres cannot open under certain conditions is very harsh. As far as the CDA is concerned, museums cannot explain that construction markets are open and they are not. The letter received by the Prime Minister from among others the CDA Ermelo describes this intrusive, but also the letters from Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. This is particularly harsh for entrepreneurs in the border region. The look must now be on what can be done, and under what conditions. Last time I mentioned seven points for the medium term, such as the concentration of corona care and the use of technology. Does the Minister include the euregiomotion of my colleagues Mustafa Amhaouch and Hilde Palland? Mr. Chairman. It is good that there are more opportunities for sport. But the letter we received just before the debate on the implementation of my sports motion ends with the fact that sport has high priority 'within the epidemiological space'. That doesn't change anything. The CDA assumes that sports should always be possible and that the cabinet will launch a health campaign. I'd like a response to that. The figures on young people show that this is much needed. It is shocking to read that 25% of young people have psychological complaints. Can the Prime Minister send out a message on Friday after the Council of Ministers that, from 29 January onwards, hospitality and culture will be allowed to open if the figures do not deteriorate dramatically, also in connection with the time for planning schedules, purchasing, etc.? I would also like to mention the Dijkhoff motion, which we adopted in February 2021. We have argued in favour of a fair distribution of space across all sectors. Does the rule "one person per 5 square metres" apply only to non-essential retail trade? That can't be true, can it? Isn't that contrary to the fair sharing of space? When will the start-up scheme and the approach for distressing cases come? In addition, we hear that there are few entrepreneurs in the retail country who can meet the conditions for the NOW or the TVL during this period. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. We understand from TNO that there is special measuring equipment that shows how much infectious virus is still present in the air. This equipment is of great importance in relation to the effective or ineffective use of air cleaners. But the further development of this equipment runs counter to research procedures. We are spending billions on support packages, but we do not have the money to develop equipment that may open up catering and culture. That cannot be true as far as we are concerned. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Earlier, the cabinet said that testing everyone, i.e. 1G, is impossible. Now we receive information from companies that say they can link adequate self-tests and their barcodes to the QR code. That seems to us to be a good solution. We would also like to receive a response from the Minister. Are there self-tests available for childcare centres? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few brief questions. Hamasters from the Netherlands in Hong Kong appear to be infected with corona. What does this mean for the spread of the virus? We've seen it with mink before. Previously, the CDA has been promised, among other things, that there will be mobile sites and that there will be separate actions to reach migrant workers. But we get reports from entrepreneurs that the GGD is not willing to go to, for example, slaughterhouses with such a mobile puncture site. There is advice to wear medical mouth caps instead of fabric mouth caps, but there is little communication as to why they are better. And what will the Minister do for the low-income people? Medical mouth caps are more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u132	Thank you, Mrs Van der Berg. Then I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, a warm welcome to the new leaders, especially the Minister for Health. Welcome! We count on you to remove market forces in healthcare, to improve cooperation when it comes to investing rather than cutting back on healthcare and putting care services at the centre instead of health insurers. We also hope that the new cabinet will put an end to the way in which we have been working so far in the Chamber, where we are having mustard after meal debates, when all the measures have already been taken. A public OMT opinion, a letter from the government and then here is the debate in the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, that should be the order. I hope that we will be able to do this from next time. As I said earlier, this cabinet stood with its back against the wall in December. Boosters had started too late and measures had been delayed for far too long. The care was totally overloaded, leaving no room to see how potentially dangerous omikron would be. We now know more and Minister Kuipers has also said that we have entered a new phase of the pandemic. The question of the SP is: what exactly does he mean by that? Does this mean, for example, that the cabinet is getting out of the crisis? Does it also mean that from now on we are going to fight the corona virus as much as possible as we are fighting other infectious diseases? We can do this through prevention, vaccination, sport and movement. We can also do this by investing in the work of the GGD, so that we can quickly see new outbreaks and new variants, so that the source and contact research can also be carried out properly and fully. And of course also by investing in healthcare, so that any new influx of patients can be much better absorbed. This means training more general practitioners, so they have to help fewer patients. No cut-off agreement for hospitals, because there is already too little capacity. And, of course, invest in our caregivers, for example in nursing homes, instead of cutting back on the people there. Mr. Chairman. Stopping the spread of the virus altogether has profound consequences for society. Few people see salvation in a society that is fully adapted to one specific disease. At the same time, there are also very serious concerns about the large number of infections that we are seeing at the moment. We still know very little about the long-term effects of heavy corona contamination. Think of the effects on the immune system, on the lungs or on the brain. A high number of infections can also encourage more new variants. I'd like to know from the cabinet how things are looking at this dilemma. With regard to the SP, a new phase does not include measures such as tickets and 2G. They lead to duplication, while they do not make an effective contribution to the control of the virus. A new phase also means that the unfair distinction between different sectors that we see so often today will stop. We see this unfair distinction, for example, between culture on the one hand and retailing on the other. How's the cabinet gonna prevent that? Buying something in a museum shop is allowed at the moment, but looking in that same museum is not allowed at the moment. As far as the SP is concerned, that is inexplicable. Mr. Chairman. The new phase of the pandemic also calls for different power relations. It must therefore now also be about the contradiction between the huge profits of pharmaceuticals, on the one hand, and vaccination in so many countries in the world, on the other, because knowledge and patents are protected and not shared. It should also be about the self-employed, flex workers and employees. They have turned in huge amounts in recent years, while the profits of some companies are bouncing against the boards. Those who have worked so hard and had the blows must now take advantage and move forward, rather than the companies and the super rich who have improved so much. In recent days we have heard very few proposals for this in the debate with the government. So it doesn't promise much good. That is why I am looking at the other rulers to do something about this. After all, it is the people with the lowest incomes and the people who did not have the luxury of working at home who paid the price of this corona crisis. They paid them with their money or with their health. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u134	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, good luck to the new rulers, because it will be necessary. Trust is low. The cabinet cannot help it that omikron has appeared, but it is too late to booster and not take other measures before, or too late and too slow, there is the reason why we, as one of the few countries in Europe, are in this heavy lockdown for so long. My question to the cabinet is therefore simple: what else are we going to do? When will the schools be safe enough with good ventilation? Can we start using protective mouth masks and more massive testing? When do we have a decent communication campaign on the importance of boosters and vaccinations? And when have we also offered a decent communication campaign for children who are now given a vaccine? Actually, there's just no good information available from the government. And the information there is is very limited or poorly available. When was the care capacity increased? We simply need more ic-capacity. In relation to other European countries, we are simply lagging behind. I know staff is always a problem, but if we don't start solving it now, we're not gonna get anywhere. I think this minister is a good listener. I would like to know when we can expect that. And when is the long-term perspective really coming? Will that indeed be delivered next week, as previously promised? And can an advance be made on that? Mr. Chairman. I saw a new attempt at a new kind of press conference. The press conference was short, she was powerful. Not everything is a success, however, because for deaf and hearing impaired people it is now worse to follow because Irma and her colleagues are missed. I say this as a former spokesperson of the initiative law, which rightly points to the importance of good interpreters, good deaf and sign language. And why does the cultural sector have to go back to the rear? Why do we get to look at a PAX cabinet, but not a Picasso? The rows for the Picasso are probably less long. I'd like to know about the Minister. Mr. Chairman. After all, I come to Dr. Bernhard. He's a nice guy. He's almost finished his education, and he's gonna be an official GP in a month. He is one of the initiators of Recycle BinVaccin. But he is also seriously threatened, even with death. A man was arrested who tried to kill him. Dr. Bernhard isn't the only one dealing with this. Aggression, violence in hospitals, violence against general practitioners, attacks on employees of a GGD, an explosion in Urk; we all remember. These things are created by disinformation, by people who stir up, stir up, in this house, but also outside. I have a specific question on this, which I also ask Minister Kuipers. How is it that so-called BIG-registered healthcare providers are involved in this? They prescribe medications that are not permitted. They unite in a medical collective. I call it quacks. But they are also responsible for stimulating the dissemination of disinformation. I just want to know: can't they just take away the BIG registration? I have asked questions about this before with Mrs Paulusma. These people knowingly endanger their patients, knowingly contribute to the dissemination of disinformation and are also involved in intimidation actions. We know that, and I've heard that from mayors, too. I find that strange and totally unacceptable. I find that unacceptable to all health care providers. I find it unacceptable that we accept that. I would like us to find a solution to that. Mr President, I have to finish. There are a lot of questions I should have asked, but I have to leave this at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Trust is the oxygen of a functioning democracy. If confidence in the cabinet, institutions and democratic decision-making are lacking, there will be riots, there will be disarray and then we will be longing for guidance. Trust in the corona policy is low. That's very low. While the impact of the measures is large, very large. The fundamental question to be asked as a parliament is where this growing distrust comes from. Is that because some parties in this Chamber systematically disseminate disinformation and stir up this distrust? Yeah, part of it. But this mistrust also arises because the corona measures have been unpredictable for two years and cannot be followed. If we were to pass the test on the measures, I fear that a large part of this room, including myself, would fall. Because why can the IKEA receive thousands of customers a day and are the theatres empty? And why doesn't every classroom have a CO meter, when we've known for almost two years what the importance of healthy air is to prevent the spread of the virus? Why doesn't the cabinet now strike a line through 2G, while the lack of effectiveness has been clearly scientifically proven? In the meantime, we have seen more different variants of the corona measures than of the corona virus. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch really want to put their backs on it together and I still see solidarity around me for caring, for vulnerable people around us, for each other. But in order to restore confidence in the democratic process, policy must be consistent, political choices must be made openly and it should be up to the Chamber to make the political decision. Because new icons, new graphics, a new minister and another place for the deaf interpreter could not really convince me at the press conference that the cabinet is going to do something really different now. My plea is simple. We can no longer continue with this crisis democracy. That is why my question: does the Minister intend to come up with a predictable corona strategy, one whereby every Dutchman knows in advance that certain measures are also being taken at certain signal values? Does the Minister intend to change the decision-making process and choose openness over the back room politics in the Catshuis? And does the Cabinet intend to do what is needed, such as increasing care capacity and putting more effort on many more tests? Mr. Chairman. At the request of my group, a study was carried out on the effectiveness of 3G, 2G and 1G. The conclusions are crystal clear. The 2G measure has no added value compared to the 3G measure. Testing everyone through Access Testing is by far the most effective measure of the three, the report states. The report states that there would have been substantially more possible if we had worked with Test for Access more often in the autumn. It's a matter of substance. I think that's a bitter observation. Currently, Access Testing has 800 locations with a capacity of 4.2 million rapid tests per week. Only 120,000 rapid tests are now used weekly. The rest of you are fucked up. My question is simple. Does the Cabinet intend to use these tests as soon as possible to make more possible? Think about theaters, performing arts, think about allowing audiences at sports games. Weekly 4 million rapid tests are feasible and affordable, also because closing the cultural sector and closing public events costs much and much more than that, and I am talking not only about economic damage, but also about social damage, damage to society as a whole. I'd like a response. Then the pink elephant in the Chamber: are we relaxing too fast or too little? During the press conference it was announced that the infections could reach 80,000 a day. A deliberate risk called it our new Corona Minister. Although the omikron variant makes less sick, I am vigilant, because we know that fast relaxation has often cost us dearly. That is why I would like to know, Mr President-in-Office, what kind of reproduction number we are heading for in the coming weeks, what signal values would be a cause for concern and whether the Minister can share the effects with the Chamber by measure. Because with openness, we are also working on restoring trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u138	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Tielen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I think that we really want more predictability in responding to developments. Mrs Westerveld says we did that research on 1G, 2G and 3G. Does Mrs Westerveld prefer to look at contamination rates or also at the consequences of infections, namely hospital and ic recordings?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u140	Our line has always been more careful than the cabinet's. In fact, the left side of the Chamber has always said: let's stop a lot of people from infecting each other. I know that the Omikron variant is spreading faster, that more people are infecting each other quickly, and that at the moment the number of people arriving in hospitals is much lower. It's very good that we're seeing that now. This gives me some optimism, although we have been very cautious in recent times. But of course there is a risk of that, because we do not yet know exactly what the exact consequences are. If we increase the number of infections unbridled, then we don't know what the effect will be on hospitals in the near future. We also heard that this morning in the technical briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u141	I recognize that too, but my question was actually more about the research into the effectiveness of 1G, 2G and 3G. I just wanted to hear what kind of conclusion Mrs Westerveld would draw about that research, knowing that that research is really only aimed at effectiveness with regard to infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u142	I can quote from the first point in the summary. It says literally: the introduction of 1G has a much greater impact on reducing infections and hospitalizations among visitors than the introduction of 2G or 3G. I think it's obvious. The researchers also note that, if we had used more testing in recent times, there would have been more contacts possible. I thought that was a harsh observation. We have spent months dealing with 2G and the question: when are we going to deal with these laws? There was talk in November that we would coat those three laws through the Chamber within a week and a half. Fortunately, a large part of the Chamber finally decided not to do so. I can say that there has been a great deal to do in the opposition from the left to the right. Fortunately, we were able to postpone that with each other. But I thought it was a bit harsh, I see that you want to go to a conclusion, President-in-Office of the Council, to read in the report that there would have been more possible if we had not stared blindly at 2G, if we had looked at more possibilities, for example through more tests. And that can also be done by testing for access.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u143	In my opinion, the report also states that applying 1G everywhere also has a lot of consequences. In fact, I would like to know from Mrs Westerveld whether, on the basis of this report, she is moving one of the three variants completely aside. Or does she say: let's use this in the total weighting of both 1G, 2G and 3G at different times in different situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u144	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I do not think any party in the Chamber has said that we should test everyone everywhere. It was always about high-risk events, where many people were close to each other, for example in discotheques. We saw in the summer that this was a huge peak and that it would be a lot safer if we tested in advance, before people infect each other massively. So it's not about testing everyone everywhere every day. It's not about every cup of coffee. It's about high-risk events. Last year, around this time, we did not, it had already been sent to the Chamber before this time, and we asked for much more to bet on tests. In that we also said: make sure that the test sites are more accessible, so to speak, on every street corner. Now you sometimes have to go a long way for bicycles and people who have a car might have to drive the car somewhere. That's what we've always wanted. This has hardly happened in the last autumn. I do see the conclusion confirmed, especially on the basis of this report, that we need to do much more at accessible test sites, so that visitors to museums, theatres and football stadiums can be made safe. I hope that this can be done in the very near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u145	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: I am not the new spokesman, but I am replacing my colleague, Mr Van Esch, who could not be here today. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the new ministers. Some faces I already know; they are now in a different place. I didn't know one face. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister on keeping this cabinet together for ten days. That's worth a compliment, too. But then covid, chairman. The Netherlands has stumbled through the crisis. Last December, the Netherlands was the first country in Europe to introduce a strict lockdown. The Netherlands was also the last country in Europe where a strict lockdown was introduced, because no country was added. We had to buy time. For example, we started boostering way too late. I have a first question about that. The models of RIVM turn out to be too pessimistic afterwards. This is in part unavoidable, but we must take seriously the call of scientists to organise more control and contradiction in those RIVM models. So I ask the new Minister of the United States: is the cabinet prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has now eased the lockdown to the relief of many people, although there are still uncertainties. But small entrepreneurs, shopkeepers andzzp'ers have been hit very, very hard. At the same time, there are companies that have made huge profits thanks to the corona crisis. While those profits disappeared in the shareholders' pockets, society is paying for the costs of the aid packages. The cabinet deliberately and knowingly maintains this distortion by refusing to introduce a solidarity levy and by again giving priority to commerce and multinationals, not to the culture and the catering sector. The cabinet says that the social impact of the lockdowns is part of the policy, but then you can't explain that IKEA is open and the museums are closed? And how do you explain that all these delivery services can make huge profits, but you let the lunchroom, the local lunchroom, go bankrupt? We really expect better choices from the cabinet in the facilitations. If the government's long-term strategy is to come, the Party for Animals will have to meet a number of conditions. One: set the right priorities; culture over commerce and health over profit. Two: invest in the care and do so this time for real. Three: withdraw the corona law and restore democratic decision-making; no debates afterwards, no forced fact-finding policy. Four, pull the plug on the corona pass. Stop that poisonous discussion, which increases mistrust and reduces vaccination readiness. There is no scenario in which the corona passes are both effective and proportional. Why stick to this miserable plan, when everyone sees that there is no future for it? Last but not least: make prevention the common thread of policy. Let's do everything we can to minimise the risk of a new pandemic emerging, because such a pandemic is closer than we think. Europe is currently struggling with the worst outbreak of avian flu ever. In my own Maastricht, birds literally fall dead from the sky. People are warned: don't let your dog run loose because of possible bird carcasses. Experts are worried. The virus is present longer than ever before. There are different variants of the avian flu virus and the virus also spreads to species other than birds, such as foxes but also to humans. Sixty people have already been infected in China and Laos, half of whom have now died. Someone has also been infected in England. The current approach to avian flu is completely failing. Animals are being gassed massively. They're locked up in pot-tight stables, but that's where the virus penetrates. In fact, those highly pathogenic life-threatening avian influenza viruses originate precisely in the poultry industry. Cabinet after cabinet strikes warnings of virologists in the wind. Agricultural interests are always above public health. Mr. Chairman. My final questions. Will the new minister do what is necessary? Does he resist the pressure from agriculture and foreign trade? Does he slap his fist on the table to implement the recommendations of the Bekedam report? I would like to have a reaction to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u147	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u148	Thank you, Mr President. After the debate on the coalition agreement, appreciation for the Prime Minister for being so full-bodied again, this corona debate is the first major debate of this cabinet. That says a lot, of course. First of all, I would like to point out that it is a great task to get through this together as a society, but that these leaders too are faced with a very great task. I would therefore like to wish them strength, health and also blessing in this task. The Christian Union Group sometimes knows you as critical, but always as positive to find out how we can get through this together. Mr. Chairman. Children are back in school and shops can open. That's the good news from the past few weeks. But at the same time we all feel the heaviness: the heaviness of the closed cultural sector, the heaviness of the catering industry, which is so eager to open up and where restrictions have been in place for so long. We notice that resilience is shrinking among young people and entrepreneurs. With that, the cabinet not only stands for an exciting medical epidemiologist... I never say that word right, Mr. President. I thought I could do it now. I can do it if I say it calm down. The cabinet not only stands for an exciting medical- epidemiological task, look! But also for a strenuous and important social task. We will have to learn to live with corona. Minister Kuipers quite rightly said that. To what extent that limits our lives and requires precautions, will change. We all have a role in this, not only the government, but also municipalities, social partners, care, education and civil society as a whole. They should therefore also be involved in the long-term perspective. How does the cabinet work on that? And how does the cabinet look at the objectives of the policy? Protecting vulnerable people is and must remain one of the pillars, and rightly so, but now that is not only medical vulnerability. Mr. Chairman. The omikron variant is increasingly known. The infections are getting worse, and fortunately we see many people getting milder. This also leads to different considerations in neighbouring countries. I therefore ask the cabinet what strategy is being chosen in the Netherlands to combat this variant. The NOS today headlined: "We're having the virus "controlled," but how would the minister summarize the strategy? Also with a mild variant, too much can come to mind when people get sick; literally when the trams no longer drive, but also when many people get sick in the care, in the police or in the fire department. Where are the critical limits now? How is it considered that the omikron variant may not be as innocent and can still cause long covid? I would very much like to see room and I would very much like to see more opening up, but I would like a very precise consideration of what is a sensible strategy, even at this time. Self-tests and mouth masks are now more widespread among the 30 municipalities covered by the neighbourhood approach, where there is a low vaccination rate. That is very good news, but I would like to ask the Cabinet if it actually happens. Is it well arranged? Isn't there any more here? Precisely where the risks are high, I think it is wise not to be penny wise, pound foolish by cutting back on these easy measures, but rather to focus on prevention. And the same goes for testing. Will we really ensure that as many people as possible at the time they have complaints actually take a test and are not restricted by any obstacle? Does the Minister wish to discuss this with the social partners? Here there is still a profit to be gained in consultation with employers and employees. TU Delft's report and then I come to my last paragraph "Delft" gives clear conclusions on the added value of tests. Especially with the omicron variant, 2G is not proportional and ineffective, not in reducing the number of infections or in reducing the number of hospital admissions. Testing is. I would therefore also ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to invest in innovations and in testing opportunities that are precisely going to help to open up society safely and to see what we can do with the space for testing for access. Mr. Chairman. As long as one person is not safe, no one is safe from this virus, and so is this world. Vaccines worldwide. When we look in the Netherlands, we are rich, but actually, when we look at the world around us, we know that there is still a lot to do. I would like to ask the cabinet, particularly in the new period, how vaccines are being donated to developing countries this year and to do so at least as in the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u149	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. There is an interruption by Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u150	Yes, I do have only one interruption left. What I would like to get some clarification about is exactly how the Christian Union stands in the whole discussion around 1G, 2G, 3G. Is it also an option for the Christian Union to abolish the entire corona admission ticket, as is now happening in England?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u151	That's definitely an option. It is precisely because of the Christian Union that all these legislative proposals, which we have voted for, are temporary and that there is a balance between proportionality. Mr. Van Meijeren is starting to laugh smiling. You never do, Mr. President, but I'll explain. In a major crisis, I found it important that things could have been opened, where otherwise we should have opted for a lockdown. Meanwhile, the hospitals were full and we saw the examples full in Portugal, where all the ambulances were queued, at a time when the ic was full. At that point, you weigh fundamental rights and say: it is necessary, very often, to limit certain fundamental rights for the health of others. But you weigh them; there is a proportionality test. I have always questioned the Cabinet, and the Minister has also promised to check on this proportionality test every time the legislation is extended. At the moment when such a corona ticket is not proportional, we stand here and we will question the Cabinet. We're going to deal with a number of laws in the near future. This question plays a huge role here, because we have seen the research of TU Delft. You have heard me say before that the Christian Union is not in favour of 2G policy, for that reason: I do not think that is proportionate because you exclude a group of society. I therefore see absolutely no reason at the moment to introduce this policy. And I have been clear about that, but always in that consideration and never merely by shouting "I don't want anything at all," "I don't want any action," "this disease is not dangerous"....................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's my bet. That is why I am opposed to the legislation that has been put forward, but I am always committed to getting through this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u152	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I shall then give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren for his contribution. Yeah, that's a nice little bridge, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u153	The printer's malfunctioning, Chairman. One minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u154	Then we'll go to Mrs. Gündoğan first, yeah? Mrs Gündoğan van Volt. Mr Van Meijeren needed a little more time to get his text. It happens. Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for the new cabinet they're here. A new year, a new cabinet. And hopefully also a new governance culture. It's urgently needed. I don't know about all of you, but I'm extremely touched and attracted to a number of outcomes and also columns personally. I do not think when reading 'that's about others', such as the cabinet, because they are the new administrative culture and we, the Chamber, or Volt, as a small opposition party, are not. I rarely look at the world that way, and it's certainly not why I went into politics. I went into politics to contribute to a better world. And then I read the column by Özcan Akyol entitled "It's time that opposition doesn't act like a circus," with the striking and concise sentence that I'm looking at, I quote "But when it comes to the new governance culture, now a word that is eagerly thrown at everything that's not right, the real change will not only have to come from the ministerial team and all the State Secretaryes," end quote. And another striking column this week, that of Tom-Jan Meeus, entitled "Deadmen, victims and destruction in The Hague," in which he makes it clear that there are three currents in politics now. School one has legitimate reasons to distrust the cabinet. School two says that in the Chamber the reasonableness threatens to disappear where politics is no longer played on the ball, but on the man. And then the third school, the school that thrives in destruction, and therefore no rhetoric, morality or decency is bound or well bound. And that has consequences for all of us, on the left or right, conservative or progressive. People don't trust us anymore. It doesn't matter whether we're part of opposition or coalition, whether or not we're in the cabinet, but the price is that people like politicians don't trust us all. "Trusting in both Cabinet and House of Representatives much lower than at the beginning of this year" was the headline at EenVandaag, and there it was said between quotes: "They sit there only for their own gain." I don't know about you, but that comes to me. And that's why I just want to make a different contribution than I normally do. I want to show that Volt is struggling before it comes here with a choice. And actually, neither do we, Volt, make the people who watch with us never partake of that struggle. 2G was a struggle for us. There were plenty of reasons why we have always tended to say no to 2G. But we also knew from epidemiologists that we had to dare to make uncomfortable choices. And we don't do that here. We approach the plenary as an arena in which we are gladiators, rather than having an adult debate, with ifs and buts and uncertainties. I believe that this should be changed if we all want the confidence, which is now only around 20%, to change to 80% or more. We owe this to our country and 17 million people who are more or less directly affected by corona. I want us to deal with each other differently. And I appeal to the big, reasonable parties here all together - even small in size, doesn't matter. But I still believe that most people are good, so let us show that politics can also be good. But let us show our doubts and our moving insight. For example, I just received an article from The Lancet through a friend of mine, who is a doctor, entitled COVID-19 will continue but the end of the pandemic is near. That is what I asked Mr Van Dissel this morning, but we must also dare to deal with the pandemic differently. I also asked Mr Frits Rosendal. You know I've been in touch with him a lot. It's possible. But then we have to have other debates and also a different tone. And that is my urgent appeal, because we can very well disagree, but the tone matters. I really do. That is why I am doing a little less on the substance. All I want to do is ask the Minister the following. According to the WHO, vaccinating the world is really necessary if we are to get out of this by the end of this year. That's an urgent apple. That's not philanthropy. It is a bitter necessity in economic, mental and public health terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u156	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u157	Okay. Then I can have a drink of water. I'm shaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u158	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u159	Mr President, I am sure you have mercy on me for having a somewhat longer interruption so that Mrs Gündoğan can take a sip of water. I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Gündoğan for her openness and also for her vulnerability. I think we all know them, especially as corona speakers, because what can't get over you, even if you're trying to make an honest trade-off that you can never put down in four minutes. Besides, you have a fraction that... Corona is about everything. So I also recognize that these four-minute debates already have a certain limitation in them, because you can't even explain your struggle. I can therefore imagine that, even if we are moving towards an endemic situation, where we are no longer just dealing with the fight against crisis and the first measures, as a Chamber, we can see how we can continue this debate. And, of course, the key issues that affect fundamental rights must be discussed here in the plenary, but there are also so many times when we can take a little more time in that committee room. In that sense, I saw it as a kind of outstretched hand of Mrs Gündoğan. How can we promote this debate? I would very much like to hang out with her, and I hope more colleagues, and also see how we can give this debate the depth it needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u160	I would actually like to thank Mr Bas Jacobs, who is a friend of mine, because the inspiration is actually from him. He said this to me personally. I don't know if he likes me sharing anything in the private sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u161	Well, that depends, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u162	We've been very good friends for a long time. He asked: why does it not succeed in sharing the nuance in the debate that concerns everyone? His comment scared me. He's a very reasonable man. He's always looking for the nuance, always the facts. And then I thought, "Oh, if we start losing people like Bas in such a debate, then of course it's not surprising that the people who are even further away from complex matter and from things like wiggling and weighing, turning their backs on politics, and that confidence is so barren. That's what we need to do with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Perhaps very briefly, I made the agreement to discuss with the new Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, even when we have a chairman of the VWS permanent committee again, how we are going to do that. Then, of course, there will also be a proposal to the committee on how we can go further down the road. There have been several discussions about the order of things. I do hope that we will have a more appropriate approach, appropriate to the stage we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u164	Fit our country, too, I hope, because I think we can accommodate 17 million people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u165	Yes. Thank you, Mrs Güntoğan. Then I give the floor to Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21, because I think Mr Van Meijeren is still with the printer. Go ahead, Mrs. Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the next disclaimer. I've had a squeaky and cracky voice all day; now it's not so bad, but if it starts again: I've been tested for corona and I don't have a corona. A new Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport has taken office. My group congratulates Ernst Kuipers. It is gratifying that the department of VWS will have a real trade minister. Hopefully the Minister succeeds in combining his medical knowledge and administrative experience with a broad understanding of what society really needs. We all experience how people stand with their backs against the wall. The border has been reached. The weeks between the previous corona debate and now confirm that omikron is highly contagious, but as expected and hoped, this variant simultaneously causes a significantly less heavy disease burden. Over the past few weeks, the Justice Council, the Digital Support Advisory Committee on Combating Covid-19 and a series of researchers have subsequently undermined the support of 2G and the Corona Access Card. We need a policy that is not based on exclusion and polarisation. Learn to live together with a virus that's under and will stay. After all, we are going into the endemic phase with corona. Openness is an absolute condition for the underpinning of that policy. This includes providing insight into the source data. An important example has already been discussed in detail: the distinction between patients who have been admitted because of corona and patients who have been tested positively. The excess mortality and its causes are another important example. Policy also includes giving effect to adopted motions of the Chamber. I am very pleased with the speedy way in which the Ministry has started to support the pilot of the miracle of Staphorst. This is an important pilot, because all schools across the country face the challenge of combining good ventilation, air treatment and sustainable energy management. My group would like the Minister to show the same determination to ensure that the serological test can serve as a basis for recovery. Recovery or immunity is coming into sight for more and more people. The number of people who have not yet been in contact with the virus as a result of vaccination or infection is getting smaller. As a result, the question is becoming increasingly pressing as to how long social and economic life will have to linger in the shadow of this virus. OMT member Marc Bonten, who dared to hope for little relaxation at the beginning of January, now notes in the Volkskrant that the moment is coming closer to pulling off the patch at once. JA21 calls on the cabinet: pull off that patch! All at once. Dare to take that step instead of always using the most gloomy expectation as a measure. Dare to opt for a policy that fits an endemic phase, in which we learn to live with covid, with due regard for one's own responsibility, instead of sailing blind on a finely expunged set of measures, which change every week. In concrete terms: open the catering and the arts and culture sector, of course with due regard for the basic measures. It also means: after almost two years finally giving young people breathing space again. Finally, JA21 also calls for particular attention to be paid to their position. Two thirds of young people are in solitude. Minister Kuipers also spoke about it at the press conference. Media reported a sharp increase in the number of suicides among young people last year. Now that the corona crisis seems to come to an end, it is absolutely necessary to pay attention to this mental crisis. Why can you be tested for corona on every street corner, but don't many young people with mental problems know where to go? You might as well consider setting up a ggz test route instead of a GGD test street. Hence my final question: will the Minister urgently consider, because of the mental problem and the alarmingly high number of suicides, how quickly accessible and accessible psychosocial aid can be offered to young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u167	Thank you, Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u168	I'd like to make a personal statement. On 2 January, Mr Van Meijeren, I quote him: sooner or later, we are going to find, prosecute and lock up those who have wronged us. Then he's not just talking about me, he's talking about a lot of the colleagues here. About directors, researchers and policy makers. I'd like to know exactly what he means by that. Was this tough boy talk? Does he take those words back here? If he doesn't, and if he does, I'd love to hear from him how he's gonna track us down, what he means by prosecuting and what he means by locking us up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u169	Thank you. You're making a personal statement. I am giving Mr Van Meijeren the opportunity to respond to that. Then we shall proceed to Mr Van Meijeren's contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr. Chairman. It is striking that there is again an opportunity to talk not about the content, but about all kinds of peripheral issues around it. Of course, I'll be very happy to respond to it. I have often said here in the Chamber that I firmly believe that the policy of corona causes a great deal of damage. So many people have died because of this. Entrepreneurs have seen their whole haven and keep going up in smoke. Older people died in solitude. The examples are endless. People have been robbed of their freedom. What is at the heart of the Forum for Democracy is that it is not so much a bad policy that comes from the best intentions, but that all these restrictions of freedom are imposed on the people under false pretences. On the pretext that they would be necessary to protect public health. Well, we see in practice that the measures do not in any way serve the importance of public health, even more so, greatly harm our public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u171	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u172	Yes. I have also said before that it is not so much a bad policy with the best intentions, but that it is actually criminal and criminal. In my opinion, crimes are committed. It is clear in a rule of law that those responsible for criminal offences must be tracked down, prosecuted and punished by a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u173	This was a personal fact. We're not going to have a debate about it. You have said on several occasions that there is criminal policy and that people must be punished. Are you going to start an offense procedure? That's the procedure we have here or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u174	It's very simple. I can't start a procedure. In the case of criminal offences, only a majority of the Chamber or the government can give an order to prosecute. At the moment, therefore, it is not appropriate to initiate a procedure. In addition, at the moment I have absolutely no confidence in our judiciary, which is not independent, and in the other institutions. I have no faith in the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u175	That answers my question. If you do not start a procedure, I would not want to hear the subject of criminal policy in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u176	At the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u177	Yeah, well, then we shouldn't talk about this anymore. It was a personal fact, Mrs Westerveld. We're not gonna start a debate about it. I'm just gonna take a look at the colleagues. No, Mrs Westerveld, it's a personal fact, not a debate. You've given your response, Mr. Van Meijeren. Mrs Westerveld has no more interruptions. I'll just...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u178	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u179	No, I'm really not doing it. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u180	It's two-and-a-half. Either you accuse all kinds of people here of very serious things that are all bullshit and you press charges, or you quit about it and act like a guy and just get into the debate here. Then we are not going to talk about all kinds of things that would be criminal, which would confuse all kinds of people and which, above all, we are trying to discredit all kinds of people who stand for our rule of law, who are doing a great deal of work to ensure security in so many places every week. That is what Mr Van Meijeren is doing with these words. If there are so many people who work hard in enforcement, in the police, in the judiciary, in the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is my job, Mr President, to stand here and say that we do not deal with the rule of law. Either Mr Van Meijeren will press charges and then we will see what the follow-up is, or we will simply have the debate on the substance. That's my call. I am not going to discuss it now, unless it concerns the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u181	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u182	I give the floor to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u183	I do not agree with Mr Van Meijeren, but he does have his freedom of speech here in this house, and I do not agree with a colleague being silenced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u184	Last time Mr. Janssen stood here on behalf of Forum for Democracy, I concluded that Forum calls for lawlessness. And I can only repeat that again. Decisions taken democratically in this Parliament are not recognised by Forum. I'd like to make another point about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u185	I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren. I just said what Mrs Bikker also said. Let's not talk about criminal policy anymore. Either you use the instrument of the crime of office or you don't. And then you confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u186	First a comment on Mrs Bikker, who runs out of the room in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u187	Well, don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u188	Here's what's important. It's not two and one: either you report it, or you quit about it. As I have explained, the procedure for criminal proceedings is such that, when I report it, no investigation is carried out at all. The police aren't gonna investigate that at all; they're not gonna. No, such a declaration is sent to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Justice must then assess whether the government is ordering prosecution. Another way is for the Chamber to order prosecution. In a normal crime, it would make sense to file a report if you had any confidence in the independence of justice, which I don't have, and trust in the police, which I don't have. At the moment, therefore, that is totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u189	I'm gonna stop you right now. We just agreed we weren't talking about this anymore. I want to end this discussion now. No. You all had a chance to say something about that. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren to start...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mr. Chairman. This is a personal fact, though. It's said I'm leaving the room. Bye-bye. I am just here for the debate. I just find that unacceptable from a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u191	Yes. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u192	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to sit down again. I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren to begin his speech. We just made the deal...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u194	But I had not yet responded to Mrs Van den Berg. Mrs van den Berg said that she was afraid that we would call for non-compliance with legal requirements. That's right. I call for civil disobedience...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u195	Yes. Then I'm really gonna interrupt you. I understand that it is a response to a question from Mrs Van den Berg. You want to interrupt me, but let me finish this. Calling for lawlessness is contrary to our Rules of Procedure, so I really do not want to hear it here. I just don't accept that. And I would also like to ask colleagues not to ask that question. Inciting failure to comply with legislation is contrary to our Rules of Procedure. That is stated in Article 8 (16). So I would now like to ask you to start your contribution and take into account what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u196	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u197	No, I don't. There's no discussion about it. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u198	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u199	No, Mr. Van Meijeren, I don't want to argue about that at all. It's just a violation of our Rules of Procedure. That's just what it says. So I really want to ask you and the other colleagues to sit down. I want the peace and quiet back in the debate. I just want you to start with your contribution, within the frameworks I've just given you. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u200	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u201	No, no, no. I'm suspending the meeting for a brief moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u202	I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u203	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. We had stayed with Mr Van Meijeren's input from the Forum for Democracy. I'm sorry it took a while, but we've been in conclave for a while. I call Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Before I come to the content of my speech, I would like to comment on Mrs Van den Berg. She mentioned that we would call for non-compliance with democratically established laws. I have indicated that this is true, because what we are calling for is civil disobedience. Civil disobedience is, by definition, always nonviolent, intended as a campaign to change policy. We have seen in recent weeks that a great deal is being done. Cultural institutions and catering entrepreneurs decided to open their doors. We have also seen that this has an effect. As a result of these actions, many mayors are now calling on the cabinet to change the policy, because they are dealing with these forms of civil disobedience. Without civil disobedience, democracy cannot live. Without civil disobedience, many women's rights would not have been realized and slavery would never have been abolished. Now, Madam President, it is not allowed to call for civil disobedience. We've just agreed to find out if that's true. I think it is extremely unsatisfactory that this should not happen in this house, but we shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u205	In addition to what Mr Van Meijeren says, it is indeed not allowed in this house under Rule 8.16 of our Rules of Procedure to call upon you not to comply with the law. We talked about that. There are different interpretations. I still have discussions on this with Mr Van Meijeren. I propose that we leave this issue to rest and that I give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren, but first to Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u206	We are now listening to a speech about civil disobedience, but that was not the point. Mr Van Meijeren has said before that he has a lot of people, which I am also covered by...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u207	I'm gonna stop you right now. You've made a personal statement. You asked that question. Mr Van Meijeren responded. I really want to go back to the order of the debate, because, frankly, Mr Van Meijeren has not yet started his contribution. I really want to do that. So I am no longer giving you the floor, Mrs Westerveld. I now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren to begin his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u208	I would like to make a personal statement, because what Mrs Westerveld just called out is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u209	Mr. Van Meijeren, just one thing. You've just had that discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u210	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u211	I think Mrs Westerveld has just made a personal statement following a statement on social media. You've responded to that again. I really want to stop this right now. I want you to start your contribution now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u212	She says I'm calling for violence. I'll just have to say one sentence about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u213	One sentence, Mr. Van Meijeren. That's one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u214	Democracy Forum always calls for peaceful and non-violent resistance. We do so repeatedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u215	Thank you. You've had one sentence. You made it clear. Sometimes something in one sentence can be very clear. Now I really want to ask you to start with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u216	Actually, there just came a semicolon and my sentence had a short sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u217	I get that, I make a point of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u218	I'll come back to this one more time. Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating for the first time with the new Minister for Health, Mr Ernst Kuipers. What has the Netherlands long nighed for a new Minister of Health, after all the suffering caused by its predecessor, the damage to our society as a result of the lockdowns, mouth caps, school closures, visit restrictions, curfew and the exclusion of unvaccinated people. It has in no way served public health. In fact, our society has become seriously ill. Spontaneity, cosiness and social cohesion have all been brought to the philistines. We have only got back fear, panic and distrust. An increase in the number of suicides among young people. Entrepreneurs watching their life's work break down. Older people who had to die in solitude. The grief cannot be described with a pen. By measures which do not serve the interests of public health or at all the interests of the people, but only the interests of a globalist elite who has gained more and more power and control. If there is anything, Madam President, which the Netherlands really needs now, then it is a health minister who puts the importance of public health first and does not allow other shady interests to prevail. Unfortunately, nothing shows that the new Minister of Health is going to change course. If there is anyone who has shown since the start of the coronas scandal to dance to the pipes of Rutte, it is Mr Ernst Kuipers. 'Cause he really wanted to be a minister. He yelled it last year. And he's reached it by licking up and kicking down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u219	Well, well, well, this is tacky again. This is on the man, on the person. Don't do that. Don't do that. No, this is really on the person and has nothing to do with the policy. No, actually, I don't want you to explain. Let's just not do that. Not Mrs. Agema either. This is so on the person. This has nothing to do with policy or functioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u220	I do not agree with Mr Van Meijeren. I wouldn't use those words either. But it's all okay here, and you're gonna shut him up for the second time for an opinion you don't like. It is not my opinion, but you are silenced by a Member of Parliament for an opinion that you do not like. Today it's Mr. Van Meijeren, and tomorrow it's me. And the next day, one of our other colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u221	Mrs Agema, we have established Rule 8.14 as a Chamber. This is about the dignity of the institution and respect among itself. It is up to the President to decide whether that is the case or not. I think it is contrary to this article. Once again, the President's job is also to standardize sometimes. It's not necessary either. You're moving on. I see that Mrs Van den Berg has something to say. After that, can we just talk about corona again?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u222	Mr President, I would just like to say that I fully support you. I have indicated earlier in another situation that this is about content and about policy. We're playing the ball, not the man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u223	Thank you, Mrs van den Berg, for your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u224	Mr. Chairman. To talk about playing the ball instead of the man: this minister of health calls opponents of the corona measures "wappies" in a mocking and derogatory manner. That's dehumanizing. A health minister shouldn't do that. This is not the minister of all Dutchmen. This is only the minister of the vaccinated Dutch who supports all measures. That's playing the man. As chairman of the National Network Acute Care and the National Coordination Centre Patients Spread, this minister claimed at the end of 2020 that care could not be scaled up due to a shortage of staff. But in the meantime, he sent a ready-made hospital ship with at least 500 beds, including staff, from the cabinet to the wall. It was denied. And then a month later, with dry eyes, to announce the news that regular care had to be scaled down. Mr President, this is not right. And although I have little good to expect from this minister, I hope that he, now that he has obtained his coveted job, will finally look in the mirror and come to his senses, and realize that as a minister he must serve the interests of the Dutch people and not the interests of the elitist clubs he so much wants to be a part of. For what would it be nice if our new Minister of Health started his term of office with the only right measure: to abolish all the corona measures, so that we can go back to normal eating out or going to the cinema or the theater. So we can hang out with family and friends again without fear. So we could live again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u225	Thank you, Mr. Van Meijeren. I call Mrs Kuiken, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u226	First of all, I would like to wish Mr Baudet, who now sits at home with corona. It's a nasty disease. We all know that. Secondly, I have nothing against unvaccinated people, but I do find it problematic that when we look at the hospitals and the ic-beds that are being held there, 98% simply does not belong to that group that has not been vaccinated. No, I have to turn it around. The vast majority of the people lying there, over 1,000, are therefore unvaccinated. Only 2% of the people there, have been vaccinated, suffer from underlying suffering or are vulnerable. So you can run into all sorts of things to hope for, but you can't contradict the fact that the facts are as they are? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u227	The chance of getting into hospital due to corona is absurdly small, both for vaccinees and for unvaccinated patients. That chance is extremely small. Only for a very small group of people who are particularly vulnerable; people with high levels of BMI may cause corona to end up in hospital. Those people can choose to be vaccinated. That might make you a little less ill in the short term. People should therefore also choose not to be vaccinated and opt for, for example, an effective medicine or to rely on their natural immunity. Even vulnerable people have the right to choose not to be vaccinated, because the long-term side effects are not yet known. So I wouldn't advise anyone to be vaccinated. It's a free choice. People who have absolutely nothing to fear from corona I would certainly strongly advise not to do it. People who think they might have to do it anyway because they are vulnerable, I would advise: think very carefully, because the side effects in the long term promise little good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u228	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u229	And what is very important is that if that capacity of care were really such a big problem, it would have been increased! Mr Kuipers, when he was president of the LCPS, was approached by a 500-bed covidship. He refused. If this minister were interested in a solution, he would...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u230	Thank you. I've asked you to conclude. No, Mrs. Chicken, you're out of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u231	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u232	I now give the floor to Mr... no, Mrs. Kuik, your microphone is not on. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u233	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u234	Mrs Kuik, I also appeal to you to listen to what I have just indicated. Thank you. That also evokes a reaction to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u235	...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u236	Mr Stoffer of the SGP has the floor. Thank you. For the record, we have agreed that we can ask four questions or make comments. It's up to you. You are here with 18 groups. So, if you divide the questions and work together, sometimes that's gonna work out. I call Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u237	Mr. Chairman. I've checked my tweets from the kerstreces, but I don't think I'm gonna give any cause for an all too turbulent start. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the three new ministers in trade union K. I think it is rare for new ministers to have to take such far-reaching decisions immediately in the first days of their term of office. I wish them wisdom and God's blessing for the years to come. Mr. Chairman. "Corona isn't leaving anymore, and we need to learn to live with this virus." These were the first words of Minister Kuipers at his first press conference. Let me stress that I recognize myself very well. The SGP has long argued for a different approach to the corona virus, with a greater focus on the social and economic consequences of measures. We must get rid of the desire for control, and stop taking orders and decisions from The Hague. Mr. Chairman. It is very nice that last Saturday the shops could open again. Because the closure of shops and amenities has taken a hell of a lot out of it. The Association of Dutch Municipalities is therefore concerned about the quality of life and the level of provision in cities and villages in the longer term. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore whether she is prepared to discuss this with municipalities and offer a clear long-term perspective on keeping shops and facilities open. Mr. Chairman. Our Prime Minister often says that the Netherlands is doing roughly, coarsely, with pluses and mines, around the same thing as all other European countries. My question to him is: can he explain why the Netherlands is currently the only country where the catering and the cultural sector are closed? We see that omikron is much more contagious than previous variants, but also this variant seems much less sickening. The OMT itself admits that the models for hospitalisations were too pessimistic. Spain now regards corona as a flu virus and in the United Kingdom the corona pass is abolished, as is the duty to protect the mouth and the duty to work at home. My question is: when are we going to take such steps in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Minister Kuipers said in one of his first interviews that he doesn't just want to look at RIVM models about the expected numbers of infections and illnesses, but that he also wants to listen to other advice and sounds in society. He's being served at his beck and call, because today 30 mayors are calling the bell. They say that the crisis approach is unsustainable, so fundamentally review the corona policy. RIVM Behavioural Scientists advise to provide citizens and industries with tools to make a risk assessment and learn how to live with the virus as safely as possible. 'Give them some room for their own interpretation', they say, and I add:'space for their own responsibility'. My question is how these opinions will be followed. Because earlier I suggested that we organize local Catshuis sessions for this purpose. The Prime Minister made a commitment, but I haven't gotten the call from the Home Secretary yet. So my question is: how are we doing and how fast are we going to shape that? Mr. Chairman. Last Monday we received the study on the effectiveness of the coronapas. The conclusion is crystal clear: omikron puts a bomb under the coronapas. I assume the plans for the corona pass in education and the workplace, and the 2G law, are now disappearing into the trash can. At the moment the corona pass is still mandatory in several places. Is this still sustainable after this investigation? Very specifically, I'm asking about the corona pass in swimming class. A judge ruled: swimming is not a hobby, but education. My question is: does the cabinet change the rules for the corona pass in swimming lessons? Two more points, Mr President. The guidance committee Digital Support Covid-19 advised critically about the corona pass, vaccination compulsion and 2G. That committee can now only advise if VWS asks for it. I read that as "thank you all for your service." It's a bad decision, as far as I'm concerned, from the previous minister. My question to the new minister, who says he wants to be given broad advice, is: please turn this decision back. Last point, Mr President. Last week, the European Medicines Agency warned in a press conference about the over-frequent booster shots, which could weaken the immune response. My final question is: what does this mean for the Dutch prick plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u238	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u239	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by wishing the new leaders success: the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate, the Minister of Justice and Security and, of course, the new Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. He's got a lot of work to do. Politics is about trust. Trust between the Chamber and the Cabinet, trust among themselves, also trust the people in the corona policy. If we look at the confidence in the corona policy, it has fallen to a low point under the previous cabinet. It will not be an easy task for the new minister, because he has a lot of rubble to clean up. Anyway, he can always count on the support of DENK. If he has plans that are constructive, then we will cooperate constructively. We will, of course, criticise bad ideas. Mr. Chairman. Since I am giving the new VWS minister a flying start, I have three simple tasks. First of all, let us stop giving development aid to Belgium and Germany. Because the strictest lockdown in Europe has left Dutch entrepreneurs powerless to see how Belgian and German entrepreneurs in the border regions were rubbing their hands. The draconian measure of the school closure has led to further educational disadvantages. Because the previous cabinet was guided by fear and panic, our young people are suffering from increasing drug use, drinking, obesity, depression, burn-out and even increased suicides. To eat a bite, people flee to Antwerp en masse. I really ask the Minister: why can it be done in Belgium, in France, in Germany, in Great Britain, in almost all countries of the world, but not in the Netherlands? Doesn't the Minister think that's unfair to our own catering companies? Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my second point. That has to do with the way in which we come to decision-making. Why are we constantly being guided by uncertain forecasts, pessimistic assumptions, unrealistic doom scenarios based on incomplete models that are far from real? Haven't we learned anything from the curfew model? Do you remember? It would lead to 10% fewer infections. That was what the Prime Minister held for our debate after debate. Afterwards, it didn't make any sense. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister, also in the last Corona debate, insisted that we have the best modellers in the world. What was wrong with them? Who's gonna pay for that? Entrepreneurs, young people, the cultural sector, in short, society as a whole. I would like to ask the new Minister to take action only if they are demonstrably effective, to broaden the scope and to have much more regard for the broad social consequences. This is always the key to taking into account popular support. Don't alienate people from yourself and from policy. Take them away. Allow no division of society. Mr. Chairman. Of course, that brings me to the last point. DENK has been firmly opposed from the very beginning to that horrible coronapas, and to the announced 2G and 3G policies that require citizens to check each other's access to a cinema, and even to check each other if they want to go to school or work. Now TU Delft research shows that the effect of 2G and 3G is marginal. The introduction of these measures even appears to have a negative effect on vaccination readiness. DENK has pointed this out from the very beginning. It hurts more than it benefits. However, in the cabinet's stand-of-business letter, we read that the Minister wants these instruments in his toolbox. I wonder, why would you put a broken drill in your toolbox? Put it away! Don't do this to people in the country. Mr. Chairman. During the press conference, the Minister of VWS showed a picture of the rising contagion rates in four countries. One of those graphs was about Britain. Even though it was not entirely fair to avoid the drop that had already taken place from that graph, we are seeing a striking trend there, namely a huge reduction in the number of infections and a huge reduction in the number of hospitalisations. I will conclude with the United Kingdom, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, by announcing that the masks and the corona pass should be stopped. Since the Minister has promised that he will come forward with a long-term vision this month, I hope he will be inspired by Britain. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u240	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was so happy when I heard that the non-essential shops and the contact professions were allowed to reopen. And how I felt about the acid for all the caterers and the arts and culture sectors that they had to stay closed. These sectors have been hit hard. The stories get to me deeply about having no more control over your life, about having to eat your savings, sell your house, or file for bankruptcy. Mr. Chairman. We hear everywhere that nobody understands: why the non-essential shops and the contact professions and not the catering and the arts and culture sectors? I honestly don't understand it either. Where is the justification for this decision, I ask the Minister, because the argument that you are in a restaurant longer than you are in a shop is a little weak. With a beauty specialist you also spend an hour in a chair and you are also close together. They can get to work. Mr. Chairman. The catering industry and the arts and culture sector have invested enormously in being able to work safely, for staff and for guests. I appeal to the Cabinet: open the catering and the arts and culture sector as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. The fact that we were able to relax is due, among other things, to the booster campaign, which, although much too late, is still on steam. Problematic is the lower turnout than we expected. What are the Minister's plans to convince people that getting that booster shot is really very important? I understand that the Minister is preparing for another booster campaign, in consultation with RIVM, and that the Minister would like to ask the Health Council for an opinion on timing, among other things. The previous campaign started too late, on the basis of advice from the Health Council, which made a big mistake in September. As a result, care was put under pressure and a lockdown eventually had to buy time to catch up with boosters. How much faith does our new minister have in the Health Council? Mr. Chairman. Research shows that if you are first vaccinated with a mRNA vaccine, such as Moderna or Pfizer, and then as a booster you get a vector vaccine like Janssen, or vice versa, you are best protected. Can the Minister explain why this is not part of the vaccination strategy? Is there any data on whether this works with omikron as well? And why isn't there any more use for boostering with Janssen, now that Janssen is more effective in the long term? Mr. Chairman. There is a lot of talk in this house about scaling up the number of ic-beds. I would like to put the question more broadly. Can the Minister do a reconnaissance on how to organise the care around the acute axis differently? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a group that is often the last in line, the people who take care of someone who needs care or is sick that day. We call them carers. Often they don't even know at all that they're called and are carers. They just take care of someone close to you, without complaining. Corona is increasing the pressure on our carers. 80% of the care scaled down by corona is currently being taken care of by carers, in addition to the informal care tasks they already had. I know that the Secretary of State is about family care, but I would like to ask the Minister what he can do and also do to support this important group in the short term, especially in difficult corona times. Last but not least, I wish the new rulers a great deal of wisdom in their difficult task in difficult times. I look forward to constructive cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u242	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. It's always a bit of a rest moment when we look at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u243	I'm just gonna return the calm. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, welcome to the new ministerial team and a great deal of success and indeed wisdom in this task. Mr. Chairman. "We must learn to live with corona," said the minister at the last press conference. I thought, "Hey, at last, common sense after two years of radical measures, which put a stop to many people's lives, put people in deep depressions, bankrupted companies and caused a huge division in society." But unfortunately, the minister has a different picture of life with corona than I do and perhaps now almost the whole of the Netherlands. The minister thinks 2G is a way of life with corona. 2G is a way of letting corona determine our lives. We live in a split society, a society in which this cabinet is quite okay with excluding people who exercise a fundamental right from participation in society. If someone had said two years ago how we now live with each other and how many boundaries have been shifted for a virus the OMT itself indicates that 99% of the positively tested people have hardly any complaints, everyone would have tapped their foreheads. This minister has a very heavy job to do. The Minister must heal the entire society. Our society is devastated by two years of corona, in which we have constantly identified culprits, broken by closure and exclusion. Mr. Chairman. The number of suicides among young people up to 30 years of age increased by 15% last year. There is a doubling of the number of depressions in pregnant women in lockdown. 51% of students experience psychic complaints, such as anxiety and gloom, of which 12% are severe. For example, there are many more examples of how all measures intervene heavily in people's lives. This morning, Mr Van Dissel said that the OMT had already advised in April 2020 to take into account the mental health of society and the impact of the measures on society. The cabinet didn't do this. Is this going to be considered a weighting from now on? If so, how important this weighting becomes in the final easing, I ask the Minister. We are considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. Let's not be lovers about the state of our country. We have come to live in a society where people are calling for unvaccinated people to be punished and rewarded. We live in a society where a journalist can say on the radio that unvaccinated people can die. We live in a society where people with dry eyes say that people who have not been vaccinated can be refused in hospitals. Mr. Chairman. Omikron affects both non-vaccines and vaccinees, almost equally. The European Medicines Agency reports that frequent boosters weaken resistance. The WHO says that there is no evidence that booster vaccines provide greater safety for healthy people. How does the Minister look at those countries which abolish measures and which are going to live with corona and without 2G? Mr. Chairman. Life with corona also includes attention for the people who suffer from long covid. I would like to draw particular attention to the group of people who work in care and who had to work unprotected with afterwards infected patients at the beginning of 2020. This group has been ill for almost two years now and they're gonna lose their jobs. They got sick during their work, because the government's protocols failed. What is the Cabinet going to do to help these people? In fact, they are now financially under way. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. The battle with corona must be fought together and not against each other. I would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to heal society and how he is going to connect us again, because by now the cure seems to have become worse than the disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u244	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Then I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has already been appointed a few times: we are having the first corona debate with the new minister today. Of course, welcome. But BET1 would not be BET1, if it did not also face the new minister with a critical look. And that's actually not that hard. At first, of course, I hoped that with Mr. Kuipers coming, everything would be different, that there would suddenly be reflection and that there would suddenly be extra humanity in the approach to this pandemic. But I'm afraid I can actually draw my conclusions. The new minister hadn't been installed for a day, or he was already talking about economic interests. Then you know what time it is. Again I do not hear anything about the incredible damage that has been done, about the consequences of the policy, about the fetish........................................................................................................................................................................................... 40,000 people who are no longer among us and remain unnamed. The economy is at the forefront and people from at-risk groups have re-evaluated. Where the cabinet describes relaxation as "exciting" it is simply a death sentence for a lot of people in our society. The cabinet accounts for 80,000 infections a day. When I read that sentence, I see 80,000 chances that we're losing even more people and burdening more people with that skillfully unnamed agony of long covid. More pressure on care, more pain and more loss, every day. We've known since day one: the goal is group immunity. And so we create contamination sites with conviction. Dozens of classes still have to go home every day because of outbreaks. My question is whether measures have been taken at all in schools in recent months to prevent this. The uncertainty and lack of support are becoming even more acute for children, parents, teachers and school administrators, while their health is also being put at risk. Mr. Chairman. Those who wager on controlled raids, actually come from a cold carnival home. A fast mutating virus won't be controlled, which the minister will know much better than I do, and group immunity doesn't exist. Instead, we target for re-infection after re-infection, with all the chances of mutations and more and more lung covid. I would also like to talk briefly about our cooperation here in Parliament. It has to be radically different, and this is an excellent time, precisely because we have a new ruler in that post. There's a press conference tomorrow, I understand. Then why are we not debating today what will be discussed there instead of constantly following the facts as a Chamber? First the media, then the people and then this gremium. The House of Representatives is still not taken seriously. I really want to ask if the new impetus will finally take our position as a Chamber seriously. I cannot conclude today without pointing out the lack of international solidarity; it has already been appointed today. Worldwide, the inequality that is already so poignant has only grown further as a result of the pandemic. The hoarding of vaccines by the West has led to millions of unnecessary deaths. A stain on the history of our species, that's what Oxfam called it and I agree with them. Although we are facing a new, very friendly face here, we are looking at the same policy and in my view that is the same inhumanity; the same cruelty that has caused so much pain and suffering, the same strategy that no one can actually tie to. The strategy that SMEs play against the cultural sector, which creates polarisation and which is usefully used as part of an administrative culture benefiting from organised chaos. I would particularly like to put a question of conscience to our new minister. Those tens of thousands of infections, those risks of extra deaths, the far too little-known lung covid pandemic, how does the minister rhyme with his years of experience in care and with the precautionary principle, to which an honest and responsible government is bound? My last sentence, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to hear his view of a humane strategy, aimed at solidarity, with all the challenges of that, in which public health is put above the economy. Although my question is genuine, regardless of the answer: I will always continue to fight for that solidarity. Welcome, I say to the new minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u246	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group and then we suspend for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr. Chairman. First of all, good luck to the three new ministers and, of course, to our Prime Minister. Despite our little collision yesterday it is always nice to see you again here. We have spent two years in which the cabinet has opted for fear, loneliness and discrimination. For harmful measures, for lockdowns and a huge division among the population. Solutions in the form of scaling up of ic capacity, air treatment and antivirals were blocked. The only solution the cabinet could come up with was mass vaccination. And while children are at negligible risk with flu or corona, even children aged 5 to 12 years are now called upon to be injected with mRNA gene therapy. The benefit is zero and the long-term effects are extremely uncertain. Can the Minister explain once again how this balance of interests can be positive for a healthy child? Research has been done by TU Delft, a renowned university, into the effectiveness of 2G. This shows that 2G makes no sense with the omikron variant. It's discriminatory, and now it's not working either. Can the Minister promise BVNL that he will not implement this measure, now that it has been shown that 2G is illogical and non-working nonsense? And can the Minister of JenV explain at once why we have quarantine rules that completely disrupt society? And perhaps she can explain at once why the emergency law is still in force, and which measures are and are not covered by it. Finally, Mr President. Horeca entrepreneurs are about to commit suicide. People in the entertainment industry and the cultural sector are in severe depression. We are the only country in the world in a completely pointless lockdown, while the ic-recordings have been falling sharply since 2 December. As far as BVNL is concerned, Corona is over. Angsthas have held our country hostage for too long, and the only right decision is to stop this idiotic lockdown as soon as possible. Stop testing, stop vaccinating healthy young people, stop the coronapas and stop all that scare-making. England has gone before us. Stop all measures, stop the quarantine rules and go back to your own responsibility and common sense. For the sake of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u248	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term. Oh, an interruption by Mrs. Van der Plas. Also her last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u249	That's right. I have an interruption left, so I'd like to use it. Yeah, about the bed capacity or the ic capacity. Maybe you don't know how to answer the question, but I still wonder why that still hasn't happened. How does Mr Van Haga feel about that, how could you achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u250	Yes, thank you. Yes, of course, that is the question that has turned everything around in the last two years. We have 6.5 ic-beds per 100,000 inhabitants, while the European average is at 12. We refused a covid ship. We didn't set up separate hospitals. We didn't offer any extra salary to the ICU nurses. We didn't train any extra ic nurses. So there's been a big call to tackle that bottleneck. That didn't happen. From society comes the call to scale up ic capacity. There is even a citizens' initiative launched by the company doctor Lucas Paanakker. I invite the people to sign on the site of BVNL, because if we have 40,000 signatures, Mr. Paanakker can just stand here and defend it. But yes, a justified point, and this is exactly the bottleneck we should have dealt with. We all didn't do that. And maybe the new U.S. Secretary of State will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u253	That brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. We'll suspend until 4:45, and then we'll start with the cabinet input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u254	I'm reopening the meeting, again. The next item is the debate on developments in Corona, with the first deadline on the cabinet side. First, I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u255	Mr. Chairman. May I first say that I was impressed by Mrs Gündoğan's contribution. I was reminded of one of the very last sentences that Tony Blair uttered at his very last Prime Minister's Questions in May 2007, at the end of his presidency. Translated it sounds something like this: the House of Commons may sometimes seem like a place where we do not see too nice behavior, but much more often it is a place where noble goals are pursued. Let us hold that together and I have heard Mrs Gündoğan in that spirit as well. I noticed that this also impressed many of my colleagues. In the division of roles, Ernst Kuipers will speak and answer all kinds of practical questions, if you like. During his speech, he will of course also address the questions that have been asked about the approach to winter and then the questions that have been asked about the medium and longer term. And also on other issues that concern all aspects that directly concern VWS. The Minister of Justice has a number of questions to answer about compliance, control and enforcement. Then Mrs Adriaansen will, of course, answer the questions that have been asked about the aid. The questions about the culture sector are also with Micky Adriaansens. That's the division of roles. Then, for my part, I would like to say a few things about last Friday's decision-making, also towards next Tuesday. Let me start by saying that, of course, we also very much want catering, culture and the event sector to be able to open up safely again and that public can be present at sports competitions, even at professional sports competitions. I fully understand the dissatisfaction that exists within all sectors about the choices that we unfortunately have to make. It is for everyone, and certainly for those sectors that are still facing great constraints or even complete closure, such as the catering and culture sectors, really terrible years. The pressure in society, I think, we all feel. We want to take more than that into account. I'm gonna say right away that I can't give any guarantees to anyone. There are no guarantees to be given. Let me briefly outline what we're going to do. As was announced last Friday, we will once again weigh up all the facts. That starts tomorrow and during the weekend, Monday the information comes in. We will all weigh them very precisely and discuss them in the Security Council, including officials, and in all coordination. Above all, we hope that there is no certainty about the fact that there is more clarity about how sickening omikron is and what the effect is on the care. In addition, we talk about the hospitals and the ICUs. Of course, we also include developments abroad. We already have a slightly longer opening in the Netherlands in primary and secondary education, which also provides information on the degree of this combination, not only of the contagion rates, but also how it relates to hospitalisations and actual developments in relation to what was predicted. You also heard Jaap van Dissel say today that the image is much more positive than it was a week or two weeks ago. I'm sure you can tell. That gives hope, but I can't make any promises about it right now. We really need to take a really good look at that. Again, we hope there's room for relaxation. Tomorrow, the OMT experts will reconvene to make a first weighing of all developments. Then, as a cabinet, we will, of course, make that weighting in close consultation with the OMT. And indeed, if there is room to relax, the cabinet will look first at the catering industry, the cultural sector and the event sector. I said the same thing last Friday. And I am now adding public sport to that, because I did not mention that last week. At least that's how we'll do it when there's room. I can't tell you what's gonna happen next week. Can we go back to what we had before December 18th next week? That is the measure that everything is open from 5:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Can we do that? Or can there even be more than that? That must really be demonstrated by the figures we get. We want all these facts on the table, of course the medical facts, but also the social and economic facts. I see a number of people who would like to ask questions about that. Maybe I can add two more things before I come to those questions, if I may?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u256	Yes. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u257	I would also like to draw attention to the situation in the hospital occupation. It is developing in a very favourable direction in the Netherlands, but we will continue to look very closely at it, because the rate of hospitalization is at present relatively two times higher in Belgium and Denmark and five times higher in the United Kingdom, Spain and France. Twice higher in Belgium and Denmark. Again, relative, so that's if you correct for the population. And five times higher in the UK, Spain and France. We have to keep that in mind. That's one thing I wanted to say. The second is that there is no question of putting the cultural sector behind us, as has been suggested by several people. In the enlargements that we dared in the first larger step after primary and secondary education last Friday, we looked on Saturdays at those sectors where the stay is short-lived. This is, for example, in the non-essential retail sector and that is a big difference with the catering industry or a theatre location. I also understand that the question is: but what is the difference between an IKEA and a museum? That's very annoying indeed. You can say a lot of things about that. It has to do with the precise legal framework of such sectors. You can't exactly see it. That is incredibly annoying and I understand that this leads to questions, but in the end there is a very practical answer to that. Considerable is the consideration: make openings where the movements are local and not regional or national; do it as much as possible where there are contacts one-on-one and not larger groups, and where these contacts are short-term and not long-term. That's what we did with last Friday's choices. If there is space, we want to look prioritized to what is possible in culture and catering, but also events and audiences in sports, also professional sports. We are hopeful and the figures are developing favourably, but we do not yet have the latest calculations. That is the answer to the main points of the various questions that have been asked. I must honestly say to Mrs van den Berg that this means that neither tonight nor tomorrow can I offer certainty that things can be done. I can only say that we are hopeful and we hope that it will not lead to disappointment next week. We are really hopeful, with that profit warning: first all the figures on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u258	Thank you. There are some interruptions. First Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA, then Mrs Agema of the PVV, Mr Hijink of the SP and Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, a brief response to the Prime Minister's last remark. Perhaps more consideration could be given to the circumstances as such for the future. 'Cause you're saying museums aren't because they're regional. But building markets are also regional, because you don't have them in many villages and cities either. I'd like to give that to you for the future. All the understanding that the Prime Minister says he wants to wait and see the figures, but we have asked whether the Prime Minister can say tomorrow at the end of the Council of Ministers: if the figures do not deteriorate dramatically, then catering and culture can assume that they will be open in a week's time. I understand that he wants to wait and see the figures, but they also want to prepare themselves. Hence our question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u260	I'm not gonna say that. I'm very clear. I don't want to talk nonsense. I understand the question, but we're not gonna say that tomorrow. We're not going any further tomorrow than I'm going now, and that might be a long way to go. We are hopeful, and if the figures and calculations that we get back immediately show this hope, then the sectors we are discussing today, catering, culture and so on, have priority. But I have no further information tomorrow than today. It is not the case that there will be more available tomorrow because we have met as a Council of Ministers. If the OMT has been together tomorrow, we have to weigh those figures very carefully and also discuss them again in all relevant consultations. This is the maximum I can do for Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u261	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Agema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u262	In the years of Rutte, 19 ic's have been closed and 16 emergency and 5 hospitals have been closed. Five years before the start of the crisis, we had 914 ic nurses more than at the start of the crisis. But that has never been in an election programme or in a coalition agreement. This was due to the main agreements. They made sure that hospitals' budgets were cut off more and more. In 2017, the Centraal Planbureau said in passing on the previous coalition agreement that it was at the expense of quality and that people were given less care. The Central Planning Bureau is now saying that on the basis of the transfer of the current coalition agreement. The new key agreements, which have been re-booked for EUR 1.5 billion for hospitals, will lead to less care and less quality of care. The Prime Minister also says that there are five times more people in the hospital in Britain, but all measures are being scaled down. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he see that the line of saving more and more on hospitals with these basic agreements is not the right way forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u264	The new minister has said that we need more intensive care beds and more investment in hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u265	First of all, I think the truth lies in the middle in my belief. I have heard Mrs Simons today and Mrs Güntoğan before. I do not agree with Mrs Simons on the specific point she believes that we are striving for group immunity. In my view, however, she has a point that of course it is not a goal to get hospitals as full as possible. This leads to people who are seriously ill and can also get lung covid and all kinds of other serious diseases. At the same time, it is true that the buffer capacity you have in a hospital is very important. That is why, as far as I am concerned, the truth lies in the middle. You can see, of course, that the number of intensivecarebeds in the Netherlands is low. Perhaps Minister Kuipers will be able to say something about this later. We have also had this discussion on many occasions, however, that what we do not call intensivecarebeds is qualified as such in other countries. That does not alter the fact that, on balance, we simply have fewer beds available than other countries. Here's what we're gonna do. Part of the whole discussion on pandemic preparedness will also be: what does this mean for the scaling up of ic capacity, whether flexible or not? This is linked to the question of the availability of staff. We must not forget that. It's not just organized and arranged. Second. If you had a lot more ic-beds and if the influx to the hospitals gets huge, then you only benefit for a short time, because in the end those ic-beds will also be full. Look at Germany, where Lauterbach has great concerns because of the low booster rate of the elderly in Germany. That's on the A.D. website today. It seems to be much lower than in the Netherlands. That's why he's got a lot of worries about getting more people on ice. I'll leave that to him. I can't estimate all of that, but there are, of course, all kinds of correlations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u266	Mrs Agema had also asked a question about the main agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u267	I had a detailed discussion of the main agreements yesterday. Mrs. Agema, come on, don't be angry. I'm gonna answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u268	I am not angry, but I am asking a well-founded question about the main agreements and the Prime Minister does not agree and does not even respond to them!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u269	No, but I was responding to another part of your question, I thought. Of course, we discussed this piece in great detail yesterday in the government declaration, but I am going to answer the question. On the basis of the facts, I think you should note that this cabinet also invests heavily in health care. That's what's gonna happen in the years to come. There's no cutting back on that. But good governance is an en-en-story. This means ensuring good care, but also ensuring that care expenditure remains somewhat manageable. That is why the cabinet says that it should, in part during this period, but especially after this period, slow down the increase, otherwise it will be at the expense of spending on, for example, education and security. That is also a real point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u270	I cannot spend all my interruptions on this, because there are other rulers. I think you want to keep the number of word messages at six.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u271	Correct. I can see: the more specific the question is, the clearer the answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u272	Yes, but I ask this question in every debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u273	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u274	And I'll never get an answer, other than the stop phrase that more money goes to care. I've never had a comment on that. Most of the care is made up of salaries, so it is quite logical that care costs increase with the current high inflation rate. We are dealing with the main lines of agreements whereby things are thrown out within the care, which then disappear, such as those 914 ic nurses and those 19 ic's. That policy will continue. I still don't see any change in that policy. The Prime Minister must realize that in a country such as the United Kingdom, where five times more people are in hospital at the moment, it does not matter what kind of bed everything is scaled down, from mouth caps and homework to corona tickets.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u275	And you want a response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u276	That's what my question was about. I do not want to waste all my questions now, because I also have a lot of questions for the other rulers. But that's what my question was about. I hope, after asking the Prime Minister every time, as Geert Wilders does every time, to increase the ic capacity, that there will be a substantive answer to that. Does he see that now and is he going to do it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u277	I tried to answer that, just in the first part of my reply, by referring to the discussion I had earlier at various times with both Mrs Simons and Mrs Gündoğan. Although we do not agree with everything, I do agree with them that, of course, it is not an end in itself to having as many hospital beds as possible, because that leads to people being seriously ill and possibly dying. Conversely, and that's exactly where I see the truth lying in the middle of the cabinet's strategy is not to aim for zero contagion. I can't. But to keep it manageable and to ensure that the vulnerable survive as much as possible, that the care can handle it and that there is also room for other care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u278	I'm gonna go help Mrs. Agema. In my view, Mrs Agema's question is whether there is a correlation between ic capacity versus the easier elimination of a number of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u279	For a shorter time, that's right, as I just answered. But eventually, if the number of infections continues to increase, you will also come up with a wider capacity of beds and ic-possibilities at a border. That can happen very quickly. In some cases that may be a matter of days or a week longer open.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u280	We can't look into the future. We don't know what kind of variants are gonna come up. We don't know if we're still getting SARS-CoV-3, SARS-CoV-4, SARS-CoV-5 or SARS-CoV-25 and whether 100,000 people are calling for hospital care. We can't. But we can look at it now. At the moment, we see a neighbouring country that can switch back to maximum, lift masks, lift homework and lift corona tickets, while that neighbour, the United Kingdom, per capita, has five times more people in the hospital than we do. That is why I would like to ask my next question. I've asked the Prime Minister a few times about that. He said that with his lockdown package he wanted to prevent 20% to 25% of the contacts leading to virus transmission. I didn't hear Mr. Van Dissel this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u281	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u282	I'd like to ask the Prime Minister if that worked, because it's a big deal. Everything's closed. The restaurant is closed, the so-called non-essential shops, the cinemas, the zoos. Did you do that, the reduction? Because I don't see it. I see via Google and the Apple mobility data that we still have less...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u283	That was the November 2 package. When we decided on the evening lockdown in November, that was the goal of finally coming, I have to say this by heart, but then I also provided the Chamber with these figures, up to 20% to 25% reduction, so that the R would be below 1. That's what happened. For the delta variant it has come under 1. We also saw that that variant began to extinguish. Only after that we are confronted with the omikron variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u284	Then there's my fourth question. This way it doesn't work at all. Back in the day, we had three questions in triple. At that time, I myself proposed to make word messages of that kind. I've done that every time on the VWS committee. But six times, of course, you won't get there. You have to stuff all your information into one question. You'll get a half answer. You're wasting everything and...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u285	Can I try to save Mrs. Agema a question? I'm not trying to use a trick to help Mrs. Agema out of her questions. I think there's been a misunderstanding, as far as I'm concerned. I think we did not say at the evening lockdown that we would necessarily need that percentage. That is what we said in the first package, and in particular in the second package in November, to combat the delta variant. Then we said: what is needed is an additional 20% to 25% reduction. Mrs Agema just mentioned those percentages, but to my best knowledge they were linked to the delta variant. That was also successful, because the R finally went below 1. If you can show that we have said this so loudly in the case of Omikron, then I believe that and then I will also ask how that has worked out in practice. But you can't just see that on Google mobility data. You have to look at how the R0 develops on balance, all of which is added up and deducted. At Omikron it is above the R1, but for Omikron it was below the R1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u286	I'm gonna put in my fourth interruption anyway. Maybe later we should see if we can do more. Because this is not how we can debate; we have to waste interruptions over and over again because we do not get answers to our questions. I could have done it in two, but now I'm asking a question for the fourth time because every time it's turned around.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u287	But if you will allow me to help you to put your question as concretely as possible, so that the Prime Minister can also give a concrete answer. I'll give you a chance to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u288	Because the Prime Minister announces a hard lockdown, everything closes, so the shops, the non-essential shops, the restaurants, the cinemas, the theatres, the whole pot closes, because we have to get 20% to 25% of the contacts out, he says: it worked anyway, because the R is under 1. But that wasn't my question at all. I don't care how you get to an R under 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u289	And what was your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u290	Perhaps it is because we were all given more sense of reality, which made it easier for us to maintain the other basic measures. My question was: has that goal now been achieved with the evening lockdown up to and including the entire lockdown? How much have those contacts been reduced? That was the question I asked last time and not all the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u291	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u292	My second question was also...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u293	First, let the Prime Minister respond to this part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u294	I'll see if I can get that answer. The Minister is not ready to do so now, so we'll have that official checked. To my best knowledge, we said in the delta variant that there should be an additional reduction in the second package. The first package in November did not do enough. Then we came to that 5:00 to 5:00 p.m. opening. You try to reduce the number of overall contacts between people, the infections at home, et cetera, so that the R comes under 1. That succeeded in itself, because then the delta variant began to extinguish. At the omikron variant we have the total evening lockdown again, I'll have that checked out and I'll come back to that mainly as a precaution. That has to do with the fact that, as a result of the November wave of the delta variant, the concern at that time was enormous and we were very concerned about the omikron variant if it were to get over it. Two. If the omikron variant was at that time that the big assumption would be just as sickening, then the care would crash very quickly and flood. The lockdown has made sure that the hospitals are a piece of army and that the infections are still lower than in many of our neighbouring countries. In Germany, that number was lower, but that's starting to crawl to our level. Once again, I would like to take a closer look at Mrs Agema's point. Have we set that target as hard as Mrs Agema says? That could be true, and I'm gonna check it out. Two. What can you say about the real effects of the lockdown against that background?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u295	So the Prime Minister will come back to that. And there was still a part of your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u296	Yes. The cabinet's sending in contacts. It then has a package and that package should reduce contacts, leading to a lower R. It is a pity, of course, that a simple Member of Parliament has to ask for it and that it is not just in the corona letter and that it does not appear in Mr Van Dissel's presentation. I am very sorry to hear that, because that is what I am wasting my interruptions on. Finally, I would like to ask the following question. On 21 December, Mr Van Dissel showed a very frightening table, which said that at this time there would be 17,500 people in the hospital if the curfew was continued, 12,000 if a strict lockdown was deployed after Christmas holidays and 7,500 people would be in the hospital if a strict lockdown was used from Christmas holidays onwards. That prediction is enormous, because there are 1,150 people in the hospital today, so that's six and a half times less. That was the reason for the hard lockdown, the closure, resulting in all kinds of Christmas stuff being thrown away. This morning Mr Van Dissel came up with the same kind of table. And now I hear the Prime Minister say: yes, but I'm going to ask if the place will open later. Then I ask the Prime Minister, what is he sending to? Because I do want everything to open up, as in the United Kingdom. But what's the Prime Minister gonna send?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u297	To start with that part of the question immediately, the cabinet sends on to the three known goals or indicators. First of all, what does the spread of the virus mean for people with vulnerable health? Can we protect them as best we can? The second is: how do we ensure that the care can be handled, that the other care can continue as much as possible and that care can be caught up again? And third, you need to keep an eye on how the virus develops and spreads. As a result, you will eventually be able to stamp out local outbreaks, if there are any, as best you can. You can't stamp it out as an open economy. No European country does that. Only some island states can do that. But you can try to keep it that way manageable. We did that lockdown a week earlier. It was supposed to be in the figures for Christmas, but in the end it happened a week earlier. I think Van Dissel also said this morning that the estimates are more positive. At least I read it back in the media reports, because I can't quite follow those briefings. I recognize that from what he tells us inside. For example, the time when people are on an ic-bed is shorter and people find themselves in the hospital less often. These estimates are also reviewed further, because the latest figures... I will come back to the question: what are we doing in the ten days that the OMT has absolutely advised us to hold, between Friday and next Tuesday? They look again at what we can learn from abroad and what we can learn from the earlier opening of primary and secondary education. There is a growing scientific understanding of the correlations. It seems that people over 60 who have been bossed really only have a very small chance of getting on an ic-bed or on a hospital bed. That's what it looks like when you see the numbers. Looks like the odds of you bringing Omikron into the hospital at all are a lot lower. There may be fewer people in hospitals, but if the number of infections is rising enormously, you have to look at what that means for the total number of hospital admissions. So we hope to get more insight into that tomorrow and the weekend. Against this background, we are now hopeful that there will be more next week, but I cannot say for sure yet. That goes back to the discussion I had with Mrs van den Berg, precisely for this reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u298	Finally, I would like to ask my fifth question. I thank the Minister for all these answers. I'm still looking forward to the extra information he's promised. My fifth question is about 2G. 53.3% of the adult Dutch and 92% of the 60-plussers have reached the booster. This will cover a lot of risks. But of all adult Dutch people, 6.7 million did not reach the booster. In my opinion, this simply means that the corona tickets are actually blown up, because people who have not reached their booster will no longer have access to the catering industry, to non-essential shops, to cinemas, you name all those places. Because I do not think that the Prime Minister is going to introduce a system in which 6.7 million people will no longer be able to participate in that part of social life.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u299	That, of course, is not a goal. I'd just find it unwise to decide that you don't need 2G in the toolbox. I think there are still good arguments that you need 2G in the toolbox as well. But what we're doing now is this. We have the results of TU Delft's research. I thought they were sent to the Chamber by the minister as well. I also believe that a written round is being held on this issue. Marc Bonten said something about it today. You saw that an initial weighting seems to be that an instrument such as 2G works less well with very high numbers of infections than with low numbers of infections. So there are all kinds of situations where it does work or works less well. But I would find it unwise to say categorically: 2G is not useful. Indeed, there are circumstances that can be more open by having such an instrument, in addition to the CTB and 3G, in a situation where there may again be an increasing number of infections. My advice would therefore be to look at this as practically as possible and from the facts. I agree with Mrs Agema that the aim should not be to say in advance to people who do not meet all the requirements: you must not go anywhere. Obviously, that's not what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u300	Thank you. Mr Hijink, SP, and then Mrs Paulusma, Mrs Van der Plas and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u301	I'd like to go back to the care department. The cabinet said in the press conference that it is going to take a conscious risk. The number of infections may go to the 100,000. And if we're unlucky, it goes over there. We don't really know what that's gonna mean for the care. My question concerns the following. I was annoyed by the cabinet's statement that it is going to take a conscious risk, because of course the risk is not with this cabinet. The risk lies with the people who work in care. And the risk lies with the people who may see again that their surgery is not going to happen. These people bear the consequences of the risks the cabinet is going to take. My question is actually: if the cabinet says it is going to take more conscious risks, doesn't that include supporting the people in the care that bear the consequences? Isn't that part of the thing that you don't, like in the nursing homes, take money away and that fewer people can work there? Doesn't that include the fact that you're not making too little money available to increase salaries sufficiently? What I'm actually saying is that you can't say you're gonna take a conscious risk and you're gonna let the people who do the work in the care pay for the consequences without making any extra resources available to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u302	Ernst Kuipers and I said at the press conference that we are taking a responsible risk. Following the Outbreak Management Team, which advises us on this subject, we do so on the basis of a first weighing, an initial assessment of the correlations between the number of infections and what this does in hospitals. But we'll take care of that. That's why we haven't opened the catering business yet. There are long-term intensive contacts. We're not opening concert halls, theatres and cinemas yet. There is a similar risk. There should also be no audience at sports competitions. We have said: we dare to do this now; it is acceptable to take a responsible risk. We've done that a lot in the crisis. We also do this on the basis of the advice. So we hope to get more information about what international insights there are about all correlations in the next few hours and days. That's one. Mr Hijink is now referring to matters which are of course very relevant. In the short term, we are not going to cut back on nursing care at all. Also, as part of the wider package of this coalition for care, there is "less money" going there too. Why? Because there is a problem there: the double ageing of the population. I mentioned that yesterday in the debate. In the coming years, more and more people will benefit from care for the elderly. This means, in combination with that it will be more and more difficult to get the vacancies filled, that you need to rethink the good mix. There must be loving care in the nursing home, but there must also be care at home and there must be forms that are combinations of them. This includes the new developments in technology and innovation that are needed to ensure that people receive the best possible care. That's a necessity. That's not gonna interfere in any way with the approach to corona in the next few weeks. With regard to pay, care is provided, because of the oval covenant, that there is always the pay space in the health care sector to conclude decent collective agreements. The last General Reviews, after a long press from the Chamber, decided to do additional things in the care, namely in the salary. We all did. I think the biggest point in the concern now is another point, namely job fun. How do you ensure that nurses at the highest levels are secured in hospitals and that people have more influence on their task? This exercise differs from hospital to hospital and from nursing home to nursing home. That's about the broader issue of having fun in work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u303	I have also followed that reasoning for the past two days, especially on the VVD side. "There will be fewer people available to work in healthcare and so we will remove another 400 million euros from the nursing homes." I can't make it a chocolate. But apparently that's how it's driven from the cabinet. It bothers me that the cabinet is making a beautiful decoration of the 300 million which will then be available for 'pandemic preparedness', as it is called. But if you just look at the figures, you can see that the money that is being spent in care is also being reversed in order to better combat the next and the current pandemic, just because of the cuts in nursing homes. And then we have not even discussed the main agreements, which are going to produce a further EUR 1 billion, EUR 1.5 billion. So what happens in the care of the people who are going to take the risks this cabinet is taking? Under the line, there's a minus in relation to the situation if this cabinet hadn't been there. The cabinet wants these relaxations. There can be very good reasons for that, and I understand that. But if you want it then you also have to come to terms with the people who work in care and the patients who want to keep their care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u304	Yeah, and that's what we're doing. In the coming years, there will be a lot of extra money going to health care. There really is a lot of extra money going there, and that is also necessary. And at the same time, it is also wise governance if we also consider how to slow down this very large increase in spending on care, because otherwise these care costs will increasingly result in... I quoted Van Mierlo's comparison that the blanket should not go to one side of the bed and others are therefore without a blanket. These rising care costs could increasingly lead to insufficient funding for education, safety and other important societal challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u305	In my speech, I had also asked the Prime Minister to give a long-term reflection, a kind of reflection. I thought I'd make it a little more concrete. The Prime Minister indicated at the Christmas press conference that we were going into lockdown for a rather long time and that many European countries would follow us. That did not happen; the countries around us remained open. We went shopping and eating in the countries around us. I'm curious how the Prime Minister looks back on that, and whatever that tells him for the future. So let us also link that long-term picture to the last press conference, or the second last.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u306	It is true that in other countries there are also contact restrictions, but not the size of those in the Netherlands. And at the same time I say: if I look through my eye hairs now at the situation in mid-December, or on 18 December, when we had that press moment, then I think it was necessary to take that decision, as a precaution. I mentioned the reasons: the pressure on the care then, the information that at that time was known about omikron. And at the same time, you can see the effects of that decision, which is that those hospitals are army. Of course, I totally agree with Mrs Paulusma that you no longer want this. You don't want lockdowns, because that's all terrible, and if we can prevent that, we'll prevent that. That is also why Ernst Kuipers and his team are working to recalibrate the short-term approach, and we are also going to talk about this as a cabinet as a whole. It will have to come in early February. There is also a tremendous amount of work on medium-term preparedness, but perhaps he can say a few things about that himself. That's what people are working on. Then you talk about the period after this winter. And the pandemic preparedness for the longer term. We want to shape those three tracks, together with the Chamber, in a way that you can prevent this kind of thing. If it is possible, you want to prevent us from going further than the other countries. That was actually the essence of Mrs Paulusma's remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u307	It may be a bit unusual, because I heard the Prime Minister say that his colleague Kuipers is going to answer about that long-term vision, but I was so curious about what the Prime Minister himself has in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u308	I'll walk them by briefly. If you look at the short term, the main question is how to update last autumn's approach to this time. There are also issues of communication. How do we prevent the two of us from having to continue to give press conferences every two weeks for another two years? Can we find other forms for that? We've already updated it. Next week you will see us together again, but you still want to get to a quiet, regular way of informing the Minister of VWS, which I am not with. Only, if they are such violent measures and there are whole sectors close to them, I think I should be visible in that, that I take responsibility for that too. That's a very important one. But then it's especially important how, in the longer term, when it comes to preparedness, you make the whole thing work properly over the tracks. That's what we're doing, so those conversations are going on. For example, you talk about how to recalibrate the intervention system when it comes to taking longer-term measures. Are all the indicators still good? Again, he's about to go into that. But also the whole system of dike surveillance. Does it work with the measures and instruments that go with them? And then you should also look at what we can learn, for example, from the deployment and effectiveness of corona tickets, which Mrs Paulusma also talked about. I could very much agree with what she said about that. It's not an ideological goal, that 2G, but you shouldn't throw it away either. But also the role of generic anti-contact measures at all. So there are a lot of things. Also: how do you normalise the decision-making process and put it against it throughout the communication cycle? Again, a little more can be said about this in a moment. That process is under way. The intention is to recalibrate early February for the shorter term, for the winter, and at the end of February the cabinet will then present the medium-term document.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u309	If the Minister of Health is going to make his contribution, I would like to ask whether there is a overlap, because the Prime Minister has already answered a lot about this. I'm just saying. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB and then Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u310	I have a quick question. I heard at the very beginning the Prime Minister say, if we're going to look at relaxation next week, maybe we can go back to this lockdown. And then the Prime Minister said that everything will open again from 5 to 5. That triggered me for a moment, because my question is: is it the intention, if we relax, that these relaxations are only open from 5 to 5? That's actually what I got out of his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u311	No, I said it a little wider. Let me put it very precisely. Then you can think about what the situation was before 18 December, so that is based on the second November package. That was from 5 to 5. Earlier in November we had a less far-reaching version, where it was from 5 to 20.00, and you can also let go of everything. I think that's a bit of the flavor, but there's really nothing to say about it yet. I don't know if space is here now either. We don't know yet, really. We hope so. We are not very pessimistic, but please, let no one take hope of that again. We don't want to sell bullshit either, but if you look at the numbers, we're a little more optimistic, and then these are variants you're looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u312	Okay, clear. So it is not cast into concrete that it then becomes five to five. It could be longer, it could be shorter. Okay, I got that right now. I have a supplementary question about the open days in secondary schools. I would like to give you the opportunity to consider taking it with you in thinking about the relaxations. Those open days are coming up again. It is extremely important for children in the 8th grade to be able to see a school physically. That's only possible online now. You also need to get a little sense of where you're gonna be for the next four, five, six years. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is possible to consider taking that particular point, the possibility of physical open days, with the relaxations in due course. Because, of course, it's about the future of young children who have to go to high school.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u313	Sorry, I'm not ready. If Mrs Van der Plas says this is not possible right now, I believe her. I wouldn't have known exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u314	Otherwise, in the second term, could the Prime Minister be there...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u315	I'll come back to that. This is also an official second point which I shall come back to in the second term. I do have a few more questions about education. Huh? To be able to be there later? Okay. I'm gonna double-check that. I got a lesson in "my" high school this morning, too. I gotta tell you, you can see half the class is at home. Anyway, the quarantine rules in education will also be the subject of an opinion from the OMT. But that is not Mrs van der Plas' question. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u316	First Mr Van Haga, then Mrs Tielen and then Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u317	I have a question that I have already asked Van Dissel and the colleague of the VVD. I'm sure you remember the moment Hugo de Jonge yelled through me that I was spreading fake news here in Parliament. Of course, that was never my intention, but back then I was just called by ic-doctors who said: the numbers you're using and you're sending aren't right at all, because people are driving in here who just had a car accident, get a cotton swab in the nose and then are registered as a corona patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u318	I'm interrupting. In my opinion, the Minister of Health of the United States of America is so committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u319	This really is for Mr. Kuipers. Let's see if I can come alone. Then they can continue to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u320	This is another Rutte variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u321	I just don't know. I've been preparing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u322	The Minister of Health is about to go there...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u323	He's got that in his set. I don't. So let's do that practically. So that answer comes, or else you'll lose an interruption. Then maybe it could be deleted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u324	Well, that would be a nice compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u325	It's been canceled.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u326	She's been canceled? Well, that's how we find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u327	She's been deleted. Yeah, that's how we find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u328	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. And then Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u329	I wanted to go back to the entrepreneurs who have been ready to open for weeks. I am thinking in particular of the catering industry, but also of the culture makers. I asked in my contribution: what is being looked at? The Prime Minister has indeed said that we are looking at contagion rates and we are looking at hospitalizations. But that is all quite far away from those entrepreneurs, while they are ready with protocols, which have been tested before, to prevent contacts and infections within their companies. My specific question to the Prime Minister is therefore: to what extent do the knowledge we have from the field labs, those protocols, play a role in these models, so that a proper balance can be reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u330	In my opinion, this role is limited in the models, but it plays a very important role in our decision-making. I was just talking to Ernst Kuipers about it. He was right to say to me that, if there were any possibility, this would go hand in hand with the request to sectors to really do everything in their power to use what they have gained in the meantime, whether at sporting events, public or cultural events, and also in the hospitality sector, to ensure that the risks are minimized. Or what? Again, but we hope so. It is often said that the number of infections is now mainly at home and that this is very limited in such a sector. Yeah, I do, but that contamination did come from somewhere. It's rarely the case that the contamination comes from the sprouting wall. It was created somewhere after all. That is not at all a reproach to anyone, because, yes, people get infected here in the Chamber and in the Cabinet. Everyone's trying to stick to the five feet and to the mouth caps. Otherwise, we'd be all over the virus by now. So, yeah, I'm also looking at Ernst Kuipers on "If there's anything you can do, they're gonna play a big role for us in the communication, like "boys, it can't, but now we really need to agree that everything you've come up with and what's coming out of field labs and what's working really has to happen." Then you come back to Dilan Yeşilgöz when it comes to enforcement, control and compliance. Last week there was the misunderstanding that she would have said: compliance is not important. No, what she said, and what the cabinet consistently says, is that it is first about compliance and control by the sector itself. And in the end, of course, there is enforcement, of course, if people do not. That's actually how the whole cabinet is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u331	I do think that in recent weeks there have been hardly any contaminations in pubs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u332	Exactly, not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u333	Then my urgent appeal is to give this also in that way, to show that entrepreneurs themselves have a role to play, because they are dying to do so. So that the Prime Minister takes that into communication, so that real steps can be taken forward, because that is what everyone wants to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u334	Agreed. And again, to my best knowledge, that may play a role in models, but limited. I'm not an expert, I'm not a modeler either. But it is especially important that, as soon as things can be done, you look at what the expectations or forecasts are for the hospitals. What we're trying to avoid is that we're moving too fast, so you're gonna get a spike in hospitals you can't handle in February. And you don't want to stay so careful that it keeps entire sectors closed. Of course, that's the incredibly exciting thing we're in right now, because you're also insecure because of these huge numbers of infections, but much lower numbers of hospitalizations. That is really evident from all these international studies. But how that really works, we still need the OMT for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u335	Mr Wassenberg. And then Mr Van Haga, and then Mrs Gündoğan and then Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u336	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had also asked the Prime Minister some questions about the closure of the cultural sector, among other things. The Prime Minister replied: why IKEA open and not museums. That answer was not to the full satisfaction, I must say. But there was also a part that has not been answered, because I asked: can the government not levy a solidarity levy? For example, companies like the bol.coms and Amazons of this world, who have made huge profits in this crisis, made much more profit than usual. The cultural sector, but also SMEs, have suffered tremendously. Isn't there a tax to come up with, which makes those profits a little bit... Well, "removed" may be a bit of an annoying word, but with which you can also help that cultural sector and you can also help that SMEs, and what you're taking a little away from those giant, really historic, profits of those multinationals and those very big sales companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u337	That is not the choice that we finally made in the formation, because it is, of course, incredibly difficult to determine where it should or should not be, and which companies have benefited and not. What we have done, of course, is that we have really chosen to reduce the burden on labour for the workers, for all of us, the middle class and also the workers with a somewhat lower salary and the families, so that there is room for relief there. And you can see that on balance, for example, corporate tax is going up by a billion dollars, and that in any case there was still a substantial increase in the amounts for companies, which are still not under the pre-crisis burden either. So in that sense, a choice has really been made to focus on the citizen vis-à-vis the companies. But it's incredibly difficult to tell which companies benefit or not. You should establish that at company level, and we don't have that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u338	But of course you can look for that. Look, companies are coming up with numbers right now. And you see, and that's being announced, and it's been said, how awfully much profit has been made. The predecessor of the VWS minister even once said: you don't have to go to the theatre; just put on a DVD. Cash register back to square one, 'cause they're selling those DVDs! So the cabinet itself has been involved in this. Can't you just look at that? And here I am talking about a number of multinationals that have made huge profits: Ahold Delhaize, Amazon. And you also know, and can also calculate, how terrible the cultural sector has suffered. Just think of this, be creative, and look at how you can help that sector and get rid of some of those huge profits. That's got to be calculated, right? That is to be calculated, because all these figures will be published in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u339	Again, with regard to pinpointing where exactly that should be done, we have chosen not to do so. But just to avoid the misunderstanding that would arise between me and Mr Wassenberg, that we would do less for the sectors: that of course is not the case. The support packages for the companies, the large support packages, the NOW, the TVL. In addition, the large support package that has been created for the cultural sector, plus the awareness that, despite these large support packages, we also have issues in our economy that are wide open due to the long-term nature of the crisis, which also leads to a number of specific problems, which may vary from sector to sector, which we are trying to identify... And we'll see if we can find an answer to that. That's all going on, of course. I think you can say the following when you compare the Netherlands to European. I have said many times that I have made a zero contribution to this. It comes all the way from Wiebes, Koolmees and Hoekstra and the Secretary of State, those six from the previous cabinet, from the ministries that developed the packages. At the end of the day, they have led to the fact that, fortunately, the Netherlands has been able to sail through the crisis quite well in the economic sense. There are only really big issues now because of the length of time. You can see that now in the catering industry and a number of other sectors. They say, yes, they do. But it's not because we don't do what Mr. Wassenberg says we leave the other thing with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u340	We've got six interruptions, so I'm halfway there. Those support packages, they're fine. It has also supported the Party for Animals. But these support packages are being brought in by all of us. That's taxpayers' money. That's what we pay as taxpayers. My proposal is: do not let the taxpayer pay again for all these costs, but just see if you can pay the companies that have benefited hugely from them. That's my request. That is really something other than saying: we are sending the bill to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u341	"The taxpayer" is for a third of the companies. About a third of our tax intake comes from the companies. Roughly two thirds come from the citizens. In this coalition agreement, we have not been able to fully compensate for the rise in burdens on companies, which was caused by the crisis in 2013, 2014 and 2015. There is still a residual burden increase. We have succeeded in doing so in the eyes of the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u342	I might have walked back to my chair a little too fast after all. Of course, it's easy to put it off on Minister Kuipers. I also understand that Minister Kuipers is about to address the medical side of the matter, the concrete bed occupation and the percentages. That's all fine. But those numbers, which turn out to be wrong afterwards, are loaded into a model. Those models have never delivered a good prediction. They're always very scared and very scared. Eventually, an opinion comes out from the OMT. That's on the Prime Minister's sign, among other things. A political balance must therefore be struck. It must take account of the collateral damage, the economic and medical collateral damage. There we are again with the Prime Minister at the table. In this case, the Prime Minister must agree with me that we have been too careful and too scared and perhaps made the wrong assessment, because the figures were wrong at the beginning. We are going to talk in the debate about how this goes further in those hospitals, but that consideration has been made wrong. So we've probably distributed the country wrongly, locked up and put masks, lockdowns and curfews on, all those dystopian measures. We just looked at the wrong numbers and got the wrong advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u343	That would be the case if half or 30 or 40% of the people in hospitals turned out to have corona, but they didn't. You're really, I understand, talking about much lower percentages. I don't have those numbers right now. That's a bit of the division of roles. I am, of course, trying to give the best possible answers to a number of main points. If the Chamber wants me to really go into the depths of Ernst Kuipers' portfolio or Micky Adriaansens' or Dilan Yeşilgöz's portfolio, then it's okay, but then we have to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u344	I agree with the Prime Minister. It has indicated that the Minister of Health is reacting in this way and that what can go into the depths.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u345	In general terms, like yesterday, I have to do it all, of course, but now we have a division of roles.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u346	Otherwise, I say to the Chamber, it is a sin, because there are four rulers with each their knowledge. Try to take that into account, too. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u347	I don't agree with that. Of course, Minister Kuipers deals with the medical treatment of this question, but when that opinion is on the table, the Prime Minister is ultimately responsible for the political balance. It is not at all a question of whether he is familiar with the content of how many beds are occupied by what kind of people. No, the point is that the advice is on the table and that now it's in the newspapers that the underlying data was contaminated and the models were filled with the wrong data. That's true in a number of ways. There are not enough figures, there are facts and these facts are polluted. My question, which I will be asking Minister Kuipers later, was: should we not register those data better, so that we get better data as input? But the final question to the Prime Minister is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u348	The political balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u349	Yes. Does he agree with me that it's probably why we locked the country down wrongly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u350	I don't have that impression. Shall we agree that Kuipers will give that answer in a moment? If Mr Van Haga says 'there is still an issue about this broader political weighting', we will do it in the right order. I am now preparing for a number of aspects on which we agreed in the distribution of roles that I will discuss. I was just challenged by Mrs Paulusma who happens more often and I understand that all of them say 'yes, but I want you to say something about that longer term'. Then I will, but in fact I am already shaving away a whole piece of grass for Ernst Kuipers, who might think: what am I doing here? Anyway, it's all good, I get that. I happen to have that lying here, but not this. I don't have this in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u351	Let's keep it that way. I think Mr Van Haga's appointment is a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u352	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u353	If there is a political question afterwards, Mr Van Haga can put it to the Prime Minister in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u354	I think Mr Rutte knows that I am usually cautious. I think Mr Rutte also knows that I like to listen to science and scientific insights. I was just talking briefly about the perspective offered by The Lancet and the perspective offered by the WHO. I have also asked Professor of Epidemiology, Mr Rosendal, who also believes that more can be done responsibly. What we, as the Netherlands, have done in the last two years is completely closed or completely open, roughly summarized. This morning I also asked Mr Van Dissel. Actually, there's a lot more room in the middle to keep it structurally open. That is a political balance, Mr Van Dissel said. On this side, I would like to ask you, now that it seems that we have some more instruments, to better organise a number of instruments: testing, so that we can keep a closer eye on the virus, and making more effort to increase the vaccination rate. These instruments seem to be working tremendously well. So we can see how we can open up all sectors a little more, step by step. I hope this will be taken with us so that we can all work responsibly towards the end of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u355	Yes, I broadly agree with that argument. It is also in line with the Dijkhoff motion that has been adopted here earlier, to see if you can do what on a wider front if there is room for it. In fact, last Friday we deviated somewhat from the Dijkhoff motion. We did, because in the assessment at that time of the acceptable risk, it is a risk that we took, but acceptablely said: we have to focus very precisely on those sectors where people are short: as much local as possible and as much as possible one-on-one. Strictly speaking, it is more pleasant if you can do it on a broader front. That also gives more divisive justice. If there's some epidemiological space, then share it more fairly. I also agree with Mrs Gündoğan. We can learn that from the past. We may have gone back a few times too quickly and may have let things go too quickly. That's what we've been talking about here. Those are really lessons we take in thinking every time. The OMT also does that. The OMT is constantly thinking about what can be learned from past mistakes and what can be learned from abroad, the examples that Mrs Gündoğan mentions. In general, that's about how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u356	I am very happy to hear that, because that would mean that we are going to bet a lot on testing in the coming period, which, for example, the Danes are doing very well, so that we can keep an eye on that virus. Right now, Omikron does seem less sickening. It's just a matter of holding our hearts that there's not going to be another more contagious and more sickening variant. If it's gonna stay the way it is for now, a little more can be done with it. This being said, I would ask you to make an appeal to society, not only at the press conference, but also through campaign jars and information, stressing how much livre the Danes have given them to be so faithfully tested. As a result, this society has not had to experience the pandemic as shocking as our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u357	Roughly, I agree with that. I thought the Danes, but I'm not exactly sure, went one step further and actually say: 1G. In many sectors, you can only enter with a test. We're not there yet. This requires a separate political or administrative balance. We have not made that choice. Testing is very important. In the Netherlands you can see that a lot of people first do a test at home. You can also see these hugely high test rates at the GGD. Today I even read that they were over 40% positive. You're scared shitless. They're also very large numbers. That scares you, too. But luckily, there are fewer hospitalizations. Only, that's because people tested themselves at home first. It seems like a lot of people do. However, perhaps Minister Kuipers can also say something about this from his point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u358	Then one last question for now, because I want to keep the other one. I think we are now in a flow in which many people still feel the need for testing, from the position we come from, namely that we have been shaved along code black. Now that we all finally feel that we should do this regularly, I would like to make an appeal on you that we are not going to let go of that. We shouldn't lose sight of that, which we have been before. Shortly after the summer, our willingness to test was very low. From the point of view of communication, I would like you to continue addressing the disinformation surrounding vaccination and testing until the end of the year, until this pandemic is finally declared endemic, and that you are some kind of captain of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u359	Good. I think I can say yes to that. We need to take a look. Once again, Denmark is going one step further. I totally understand what Mrs Gündoğan is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u360	I'd like to make him a little sharper. Last week's report makes it very clear that if we use more tests, it will have a much greater impact on reducing both the number of infections and the number of hospital admissions than 2G or 3G. But the report says something else. I referred to that in my contribution. It also says that if we had put more effort into testing, there would have been more possible in recent months without a substantial increase in the number of infections. In that science, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he is a willing to really go into testing to make more possible in the cultural sector, in the stadiums, and so on, and b whether he agrees with me that we should step away from that close view on the deployment of 2G. So far, this has only led the cabinet to look a little less at testing. And that didn't turn out right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u361	I don't agree with that last one. We don't sit through a straw looking at 2G. It's not like I'm thinking, oh, 2G! What I'm advocating is not to throw it away. Some parties have said almost ideologically: we are not going to do it anyway. If there is no majority, there is no majority, but I would find that unwise. I think you should have it in the toolbox, because that's what you see in the TU Delft report as well as in situations where 2G helps. And the other way around: we're going to analyze that report very precisely and see what's in it about testing. I told you we're coming up with an approach for the shorter term in early February. We are also working on a longer-term approach. Then we will look again at the whole test point and we will include this in it. That is all on the sieve now, also against the background of all the information we have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u362	For my party, it's not an ideological point. In fact, when the report came Tuesday night, I immediately started reading it, precisely because we asked for it. We have said that if you introduce far-reaching measures, there must be a very good basis for this. Then that should not be political wish thinking, but then it must be supported by science. The need must then be demonstrated, and proportionality must then be clear. That is why we asked for the report which appeared on Tuesday. I read in the report a number of very harsh conclusions. The report makes it very clear that if we had put more effort into testing in the last few months, there would have been more possible. That is why I ask if the Cabinet is prepared to think about a new change of course and think about how, as in Denmark and a number of other countries, we can make sure that you can test closely so that I am not talking about everything that is possible to go back to high-risk locations next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u363	Let me give you another very precise answer. I am not saying no, but I am not saying yes, either, because, on the basis of the report that has come out and the question that the Chamber has asked, and in the light of the review that is coming in early February, we are weighing all these things. I hear what Mrs Westerveld is saying. I'm not saying it's bullshit. On the contrary, I believe that there are a lot of arguments in favour of what she has just said. I ask her not so much as through her to the Chamber: let us all continue to look at the whole report. Mrs Westerveld has a good point here, but I think there are some really strong arguments in it not to throw 2G away. But again, I am not saying that to Mrs Westerveld, because I know she was the first to say here: I am willing to think about everything, but bring me the facts. And that's what this report is all about. That's partly because of her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u364	The Prime Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u365	Just a few things. Communicating. A question was asked by the VVD. As I said, because of the uncertainty surrounding the omikron variant, we have decided on a step-by-step relaxation. It is true that social and economic considerations are always taken into account. We are also trying to communicate the uncertainty about it as well as possible, because we must also say it honestly if we are to take an acceptable risk. If further steps are to be taken, we always want to try to include entrepreneurs and citizens. This is reflected in the texts at the press conferences and in interviews, but also in the communication to the Chamber and in the long-term plan. Then there was the question of better involvement of the deaf and the hearing impaired at the press conferences. That's a broad-based wish. This clarifies the message to society. The choice to use illustrations does have consequences for the use of the sign interpreter. It has been chosen to put it in a frame. By the way, in a lot of countries, it's like this. At the end of the press conference we received signals from the deaf community that this is less easy to follow for the deaf. Following these signals, we are now discussing improvements for the next press conference with the NPO, NOS and the deaf community. We also learn from other countries how they do with pictures, without it being at the expense of the deaf interpreter. I hope that something can be seen of this next Tuesday. Then there was the question about education, that there are so many children at home now. I told you we're asking the OMT this week if we can change the quarantine rules a little, so students don't miss unnecessary lessons, while it's justified to go to school. The same goes, of course, for teachers standing in front of the classroom. There were relaxations last week, as you know. Then it's about ventilation. For this purpose, the GGDs indicate that they will not advise schools to close the doors when air quality is not in order. However, the school board must ensure that the applicable ventilation standards are respected everywhere. The Empire helps the schools and the municipalities to shape this together. The same applies to the CO-meters. School boards and municipalities should work together to ensure that classrooms and buildings meet all standards. Where this is not yet sufficiently visible, these school boards are called upon to do so as soon as possible. A carbon dioxide meter is a good indicator for mapping air quality. The specific allowance ventilation in schools, called SUVIS, provides for a subsidy for the purchase of those meters per educational area. Schools which do not make use of this subsidy are, of course, free to purchase these things from their own resources. I'll just see if I have any more questions. That's a few more. We've already talked about the lockdown. As far as the decision-making process is concerned, I have told you that we are considering this in the context of the whole review process. So we'll get back to that. Frankly, I think I have had the questions, thanks to the questions that have already been answered in the interruptions. Unless you're not, but I'm sure someone will come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u366	I see some movement in the room. A lot of movement. First, I give the floor to Mrs Simons from BET1. And then Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u367	Oh, yes, Mr. Stoffer, may I still do that? The CTB for swimming lessons. Is that why you came forward? No? I'll leave him there. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, For the CTB for swimming lessons, it is very important for every child and every adult to be swimming. Therefore, swimming lessons should be able to continue as much as possible. There is an exception for parents who accompany children or young people who need a companion during swimming because of a disability. Of course, children and young people do not have to show CTB during sports and swimming lessons. And the public indoor areas of the site for the practice of sports, such as swimming pools, are generally subject to a CTB obligation from 18 years onwards. Mrs Van den Berg asked about one person per five square metres. This also applies to non-essential retail trade. So that goes for everything. Mrs Simons had asked for the momentum, if I may sum it up like that. She asked how we take the Chamber seriously. Can I say three things about that? One. The Court has the key to the adoption of the measures. That's the Temporary Law measures covid-19. This also means that measures can be rejected by majority. At the same time, I also understand very well the feeling of the Chamber that sometimes people are chasing the facts, especially because decisions sometimes have to be taken quickly and occasionally leak out too. Yesterday, a motion by Mrs van der Plas was adopted on this subject. This means that we also want to bring peace, cleanliness and regularity to the decision-making process, including the appropriate role for the Chamber. Again, we will come back to that at the review which will shortly be going to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u368	Thank you to the Prime Minister for answering my specific question. I just want to go back to the schools, the ventilation and the prevention. The cabinet could have come to the conclusion that keeping the schools open has led to a multitude of infections in children who then infected their parents, etc. et cetera et cetera. The schools have been closed for several weeks. The fight against the pandemic is controlled nationwide. And yet I hear here saying that it is up to the municipalities, where specific subjects are concerned, or to the school boards. I am convinced that we in the Netherlands, in the last three weeks that the schools were closed, could have made sure that the schools were safe by placing ventilation equipment, air filters and so on. I am trying to understand at what point we control the pandemic nationwide and what makes it possible for us to say at other times, if we can really do something about prevention and safety, that is up to the school authorities, they have money themselves, and they have only one thing to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u369	Always have. Sorry. I believe we have 8,000 primary schools and 1,800 secondary schools. We're not gonna be able to do that from The Hague. That's what the school boards really have to do. That's their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u370	As long as we have a defence apparatus that trains people to provide assistance to any calamity worldwide in emergency and war situations, I am convinced that, if we want to do so, we can provide at least half of these 8,000 schools and 1,800 secondary schools with the appropriate preventive means in three weeks' time. My question is: why isn't that happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u371	That's a job of the school boards, isn't it? I just really don't agree. The school boards are about the schools. They have all the directives, they also have the resources and the subsidy schemes. It happens in a lot of schools. There's no way it's happening anywhere. The municipalities also have a special responsibility in this respect, particularly in relation to the housing of education, including the grant. So let's not try to draw a lot of things to the realm level right now. I sincerely do not see the added value of this, other than calls for it. If we're going to organize that completely from the Empire, I don't think that's wise. Then you'll join the autonomy of those schools. They just have that job. Again, my perception is that it already happens in a lot of schools. At the school where I teach, it's cold everywhere. So that goes well there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u372	Mr Rutte knows very well that he is talking to a Member of Parliament who is always cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u373	I know!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u374	So he also knows that we're not going to find each other in the observation: it's cold, so we're good. I honestly don't understand. We want there to be as few infections as possible in this country in order to combat a pandemic. Then why should we not want to help the schools even if we don't have to if it turns out that national direction can be effective? I don't understand why you don't want it because you say, "Yeah, you don't have to."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u375	Because that's what all the systems are for. We have good school boards in the Netherlands, don't we? You gotta have a little faith in that. They have the directive, they have the means. They can appeal to the municipality, they can go anywhere if they want advice on how to handle it. But my point is a little bit: let's be careful that we don't try... just like we as Lower House and Cabinet do everything flawless. Well, we know this is far from it. Let me speak for myself, the cabinet really doesn't do everything flawless. Then we would say here: we can take care of that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u376	I am going to leave it at this point, because they are costly interruptions. And I look forward to a debate with the new Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u377	He's armed to the teeth!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u378	My question is bottomline next and I would like a short answer. We have a pandemic to fight. We see schools are a fireplace of infections. If the aim is to combat the pandemic and minimise contamination in order to minimise hospitalisations, what can be against getting everything out of the closet to achieve that goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u379	No, nothing, but we already do. We have freedom of education in the Netherlands. The school boards have a far-reaching responsibility for their schools and they take them as well. I don't have any clue that the school boards say, "Oh, never mind. That would be serious, wouldn't it? So I just don't share that; we don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u380	I have on my list: Mr Stoffer, Mr Hijink, Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs Bikker and then Mrs Kuik. But I shall first give the floor to Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u381	Also because I think that helps in the debate. I believe that Mrs Simons is making a very valid point. We can see that only 30% of the schools after two years of pandemic have the ventilation in order. We see that many schools struggle with this task and that there are also great differences between rich and less wealthy schools and between rich and less wealthy municipalities. This creates a division in the health of children, because this ventilation should have been in order long ago. If you know all that, doesn't it make sense for you to take more direction and give more budget? Now that's only 30% of the cost to make sure that in the next six months all these schools are well ventilated? Those kids are just entitled to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u382	Does this live wider? Because if that's the case... we'll do the corona fight together. If Mrs Simons, Mrs Kuik and others feel that way, then I will of course kill the flag and then I will ask Dennis Wiersma, the Minister responsible, to give a very precise picture of what we could do more nationally, without entering into the autonomy of the schools. 'Cause I really don't want to. What can we do together to provide additional support for schools that may be struggling with it and need help in doing so? Look, I'm very practical at that: we'll do it together. If that's a feeling here, I can't see it, but if you can see it, I'm willing to do it that way. We ask whether Wiersma can quickly send a note about this, which I do not mean derogatory words, especially with not too much text, or give effect to those felt wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u383	That's a good promise. That letter doesn't have to be long. I'm actually just expecting: yes, we're gonna do more direction and we're gonna get more budget for it. As an example, I know that 43 schools in Amsterdam alone do not yet have the right ventilation. Part of that is also a budget problem. So I do not want to enter into autonomy, but if we say that we are doing this together, solve it. That's so much profit for all those kids. I note this commitment and I look forward to the short note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u384	We are officially forwarding this part of the debate to Mr Wiersma, including my commitment. So we're gonna pick it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u385	Mr Stoffer on behalf of the SGP and then Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u386	I had asked about the Prime Minister's generous commitment to the local Cathouse sessions. I thought, "This state of affairs is coming, but it may have been shot in between." At the time, the commitment was: not on Sundays and under the direction of the Minister for the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u387	Yes, that's a very fair question. I could now, of course, give a comprehensive answer to that, but I will return to that in the second term, in order to make it even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u388	I shall then give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP and then to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u389	I think we have had some 40 corona debates with the previous cabinet. This is the first Corona debate we have with the new government. Of course, that's nice, but it looks a lot like the previous 38, 39, 40 debates, namely that it's always mustard after the meal. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it would not be much wiser, for the support of society, for the support given here in the Chamber and for the democratic legitimacy of the decisions taken, to make that public immediately once there is an OMT opinion. We will then receive a letter from the government on what decisions it intends to take on the basis of that OMT opinion. Then we have the debate here in the Chamber, after which society knows which decisions roll out there. That seems to me to be a logical order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u390	This is really part of what we come up with in early February. I know that wish. I do not know whether Mr Kuipers has anything to say about this, but otherwise we really need to take that into account in the letter on the approach for the next few weeks and months that will come in early February. I know the wish, but we need to get it straight. If there is such a crisis as now where you have to make a decision very quickly, then you cannot wait for a debate in the Chamber. If you can wait for that, there might be more options. In any case, last week it was possible to send the letter immediately after the press conference, and not only at night. Anyway, it's all not ideal yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u391	And, of course, the Chamber has something to say about it, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u392	That's right. Sure, by the law anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u393	I understand all that. Whether a letter comes a few hours earlier or later, I don't think it's the point I want to make. I am concerned that there is simply a great deal of dissatisfaction, in fact for a year and a half, about the way in which decisions are taken. This is, for example, about the contrasts between sectors, the culture that confronts the shops. There is a great deal of discontent about that in society and here too, I think. I think it is simply important for the public to see how the debate is taking place here, and that the political choices are not made in the OMT but here in this Chamber. In that sense, it is more than a wish. I think that should be done. It's not like I'm looking for some kind of gift or some kind of wish. No, this is about strengthening our democracy, about strengthening the decision-making process on this type of action. So maybe I should try another way. I think we should simply say today as a Chamber, because it is the first Corona debate, that it must be done in this way, namely that the OMT opinion will be made public immediately and that we will do it in a different way in future, in other words in the next Corona debate. We need to know what the advice is first. On that basis, measures should then be proposed, and we are going to have a proper debate on this, rather than having to pee over it again a week after that, when everyone knows that there is no point in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u394	I don't know if we can do all that, because the cabinet still has to be able to manage. I agree with Mr Hijink that you need to look at this'rest, cleanliness and regularity', as I have just mentioned, and at transparency, predictability and more rest in decision-making. This is all part of the rethinking of the approach. We want to make the transition to a more normal decision-making process, and change other things as well. We don't want to do the press conference like this anymore. We all want to change things. I do not know if you can go so far as to say: we will first send the OMT opinion with a first idea of what we want, and we will take the decision only after the debate in the Chamber. I don't know if that's okay. That's what we need to look at. I hear the wish, but I'm not going to make any promises about it right now. That is what we are engaging in the internal debate. Of course, if it were to be a chamber motion, we would have to consider it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u395	I would like to return to the Prime Minister's remark that one person per 5 square metres also applies to the non-essential retail sector. That's exactly what I was working on. I referred to the motion for a resolution by Mr Dijkhoff and others. It says, "We have to divide up the space that exists fairly." I don't notice any management at supermarkets anymore. I do not notice that there is also sent on one person per 5 square meters. I say: if you ask the non-essential retail sector, then you must also ask the essential retail sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u396	Yeah, well, this goes for everyone, so it goes for them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u397	Then I can only point out that that is not in my view very much in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u398	Mrs Yeșilgöz is going to look at this. I also notice that you can go inside the Albert Heijn with a basket, when you used to have a cart like that. That cart already created distance. Anyway, that's just a domestic observation. However, this standard of one person per 5 square metres applies to all the current open-ended through-flow locations, which are really open to all the open-ended through-flow locations, including the essential retail sector. Indeed, Mr Wassenberg has already said that they did not come out of the crisis financially worse. They therefore have a special responsibility. I am also not entirely sure whether it is being properly completed in all respects at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u399	I would like to ask the Prime Minister for an addition. A letter from Minister Wiersma on ventilation in schools and the role of the government in it was just mentioned. I also mentioned in my contribution that we are very pleased with the commitment that the VWS Ministry wants to work or support the pilot in Staphorst, which is precisely about this. I would actually like to ask whether the VWS ministry can be involved in this, precisely because my group expects that this pilot in Staphorst might provide very good insights into this. If we can take it with us right away, we think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u400	For me it is still a clock and a clapping, but with Mr Kuipers they have already been put together. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u401	Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then we'll go to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u402	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on the development of the coronavirus. I would once again like to welcome our new Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. I'll give him the floor for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber very much both for all the congratulations and congratulations for my new position and for all the questions that have been asked in the first term. I have followed the debates on corona from my previous position, perhaps not all 40, but many times. I have always had great admiration for all the questions that have been asked. I have that even more today and also for all the information that you are getting. You do this very widely and in many places; we hear that now. And on that basis, you conduct the debate and control the government. Compliments! I said last week, together with the Prime Minister at the press conference, that we are in a new phase of the corona pandemic. That's a phase where we have to learn to live with the virus. We have to learn how to live with the virus. This must be done with education, with sport, with culture, with care and with entrepreneurs. It has to be in cooperation, so it has to be with each other. Because it affects all of us. We all really need to find and find the solutions. Of course, there is also the fact that you are looking at this; I am just looking at Mr Hijink how we can ultimately achieve a much more predictable long-term policy and possibly a different decision-making cycle. I can only give a reflection of my one and a half weeks as Minister. I notice that, on the one hand, the pace is extremely high at certain moments. If I just refer to the TU Delft report that has already come by and we are going to talk about it in such a way that I myself have said and write one hour to read the report and to approve the letter to the Chamber and to see that it was in the news. That kind of tempo in an investigation that has been going on for three months now is also very special. So we're dealing with a lot of sectors. We want society to open up in a controlled manner. In doing so, we share the desires, but also the burdens, if they are needed. I hear some of you refer to this, also in relation to previous motions. I suggest that this cooperation starts here with us. In this respect, Mrs Gündoğan's statement also appealed very much to me. I shall now turn to the answer. If that is all right with you, I have actually divided the answer into a number of subjects. In this respect, I am going to answer the questions grouped together as much as possible. I start with epidemiology and the measures, then I come to the long-term approach, then the corona tickets and the TU Delft report, then the care and care capacity, then the vaccinations and finally the remaining questions, which are grouped together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u404	I assume that the questions the Prime Minister has answered...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u405	We shall put it aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u406	Yes. I'll just see if Mrs. Agema will wait. No. Mrs Agema's last question, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u407	The first interruption for the new-fashioned minister. I wish him all the wisdom in this beautiful new job.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u408	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u409	The Minister said at the press conference that a new time is coming. He said we're entering a new phase of the pandemic. A lot of Dutch people also want new policies. This new policy that many Dutch people are longing for is, of course, a policy that is being scaled down; in which we are not getting more and more restrictions and restrictions, but at some point just less. I am very shocked that in the corona letter the intention is to introduce an obligation on the face of the face, a duty on the MBO and h.o., both when moving and on the seat. I cannot imagine that at this stage of the pandemic we are going to force young people to sit in classrooms with mouth caps. They must be able to breathe. They must be able to perform. The importance of good ventilation, a healthy indoor climate, should prevail over the closure of oxygen inhalation. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he agrees with me and whether he thinks that we should not do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u410	I thank Mrs Agema for this question. We have done the following in the past period. That's what we indicated in that letter. We have opted for significant relaxations. We did that in a setting with very high numbers of infections, which still rose. At the time we decided to relax, the infections had increased by almost 70% in a week compared to the week before. So we have opted for significant relaxations. At the same time, we have also looked at how we could reduce the risk of an excessive increase in the number of infections. As you know, the number of infections is simply the resultant number of contacts times the chance that someone gets infected with a contact. We have done some work on the number of contacts, in terms of measures and advice. The chances of someone getting infected include the use of mouth caps in places where the virus is widespread and where people sit longer together. That is an excellent place as in education. In this respect, we therefore follow the advice of the OMT.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u411	I think Mr Van Haga has another interruption before you really start answering it. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u412	I've asked a number of questions. I assume the Minister will answer that in his speech. I also wish the Minister every success, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u413	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u414	There's one question I didn't ask. It's about the serological tests. This is the subject of a motion by Mrs Pouw-Verweij. I co-founded that motion. I get incredibly many complaints from the country of people saying, "I've had the disease." That usually happened early in that corona situation. They've been a little sick and they've had a brat nose, but they've had the disease. They have now had a serological test done, and it shows that they have antibodies. So they can just prove that they've had corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u415	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u416	There's no way they're gonna get a piece of evidence right now, if they want to be part of that QR terror. My party, BVNL, does not want that; we are not in favour of that. But if you go with the narrative, isn't it possible... A motion has been passed on this subject, I think Chamberwide. Minister De Jonge didn't do anything about it at the time. Could you please indicate whether you would like to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u417	I shall come back to that question later, also in response to a question from Mrs Pouw-Verweij. If you don't mind, I'll just park your question right now, and I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u418	Yes. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u419	I won't forget, or you can help me remember that. Good. Let's start with the epidemiological image first. As you know, on 18 December last year, the previous cabinet decided on a wide lockdown. And at that point, the weekly average of the number of infections was almost 15,000. It was 14,700 infections a day. And despite that lockdown, the number of infections has risen sharply. That ties in, and is in line with the predictions of the RIVM. The average number of infections in the last week was 35,000 per day. And you've seen that we've been on more than 40,000 infections a day in the meantime, apart from some registration and ICT issues of the last few days. Without that lockdown, the number of infections would undoubtedly have been much higher now. The comparison with abroad has already been made. This is of course due, and happens in the presence of, the omikron variant, a variant that spreads much faster and where a peak has not yet been reached. Fortunately, this high number of infections still does not translate into restrictions on access to care. In fact, if you look purely at hospitalizations, there has been a decline in hospital intake during the last period, and that is beneficial. Against this background, I am going to look at the questions, starting with Mrs Westerveld's question, whether we are relaxing too quickly or too slowly, and at what R-value exactly we are heading off at. Right now, the R-value is 1.16. That is, of course, the average of a dominant Omikron and a virtually disappeared delta variant. This means, as you know, that 100 infected people together infect 116 others and that the epidemic also continued to increase in the existing measures. The R value is always calculated retroactively, as you know, so it is actually based on the measures we had last week. In the technical briefing today, Mr Van Dissel stated that he expected the R-value to increase again, based on the current contagion rates and the measures of 14 January. What the exact R-value will be, I can't say yet, but let's assume for now, in all safety, that it will be higher than that 1.16 and that the number of infections will increase significantly. The expected numbers have already been mentioned. We really have to take into account that the number of infections will increase to 75,000 to 100,000 per day; large numbers. I would remind you that it was not so long ago that we already found 10,000 to 15,000 a day very much. You may remember a very recent record, but we are already much higher. A further question from Mrs Westerveld was whether the Minister could indicate exactly the effects per measure. You know that the cabinet is advised, among other things, by the OMT when taking measures. The modeling of the RIVM has just been mentioned. To say exactly what contribution it makes to the prognosis of the R-value remains extremely difficult for each measure. To give an example, which may come back to the discussion about the corona tickets: from the evening closure in the setting as we had the past period, a calculation was that the effect was about 10% dampening, i.e. -0.1 of the R-value, in the models like the RIVM that calculates. Keep that 10% in mind. This brings me to Mrs Agema's question about the new phase of the epidemic. Which direction is chosen exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u420	Before you proceed, a question from Mrs Westerveld, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u421	I would like to ask another question about this. We have often discussed in the debate that the Chamber wants to have more insight, so that we can check better, because that is where things are already going wrong. I understand that you cannot calculate exactly how many infections take measure X, but because of the decision-making process, because decisions are taken in the Catshuis that we do not understand, we cannot properly control the cabinet and we cannot think with the cabinet whether the policy being used is smart. That is not the case, and I would like to see a different decision-making process on that. That is why I would like to have much more insight on the basis of which arguments which measures are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u422	This concerns the discussion that has just been held, and I am looking at Mr Hijink. Very understandable. This will also be part of the next period, as mentioned by the Prime Minister. Can we now come to a more predictable and perhaps rather calmer policy, which also reverses the whole process of information, debate and decision-making? That is not possible at the moment, even with these R-values and the calculation of the RIVM I just mentioned. You must imagine that if we ask the RIVM whether they can take pieces out of it, then there are so many dependencies that it all remains an estimate. It's hard to say: we have so many Lego cubes, with so much effect, and we do this Lego block but we don't have that Lego block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u423	I understand that, but the cabinet makes decisions, of course. The cabinet has now decided to increase the number of infections to an alarmingly high number. I was really looking at the press conference with big eyes. Then the Chamber would like to know precisely on what basis that strong decision was taken. Ideally, we'll reverse it. I've argued for that many times. Mr Hijink just did. That number is not yet the case, but I would like to know what arguments are behind it, because at the moment we do not know what was on the table, what the cabinet has talked about and why this major change of course has been decided upon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u424	The Prime Minister has already mentioned this on exactly the same priorities that have already been set in the past. I'm not going to repeat them all, but I'm going to: keep access to care, protect vulnerable people, keep an eye on the infection. It was the fourth, wasn't it? At the same time, we also look at the social and economic impact. Let's take a look at access to care first. That clarity was not there in December, but in the meantime there is, certainly on the basis of numbers from abroad: with the vaccine status we now know, the omikron variant is less sickening and therefore leads to less impact on the care. This also means that we have had explicit contact with healthcare partners: what is the situation now and what are the possibilities of relaxing on the basis of a very understandable desire from society, for example with regard to education?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u425	So far I have been able to follow all this, but then it is still impossible for us as a Chamber to check this properly, to know what arguments are on the table. I would like to add a question to that, because we have the TU Delft report now. It says that more contacts would have been possible if we had been more committed to testing in recent times. There would have been more possible. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with me that we need to reverse the course, and that we need to put more effort into testing in the near future to ensure that we can open up more as quickly as possible in a safe way, precisely in view of the consequences for society. Testing also works preventively.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u426	I fully agree with Mrs Westerveld that we need to keep a close eye on the virus and on its spread. Testing is one of the items we use to do that. That's already happening very widely. Reference is made to the TU Delft report. As soon as you test more, you might have an even better view of the number of infections. I do not go along with the commitment and the conclusion: do you agree with me that we should also test more? Let us first discuss the broad conclusions of that whole report in its full scope.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u427	It is, of course, very uncomfortable that the cabinet can attach percentages to the effects of certain measures if that is the case for the cabinet itself. I refer to the Ministry's response to the report on 2G, the tickets. In a response from VWS it was said: no, we have to go through with the tickets, because that could just cut 10% to 16% in the reproduction number. It was even said: that is about the same as closing down or not closing down the catering industry. Apparently there is a percentage to stick to the closure of the catering industry, that also coincides with the application of 2G or not and suddenly we do have that kind of figures. If that can be said about 2G in combination with the catering industry, then that raises a question for me. So obviously there are tables or there is a system somewhere that allows us to see the effect of a particular measure. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can ask the RIVM to what extent we can in any way obtain such a table.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u428	In fact, you already have those numbers. Mrs. Agema just showed a wonderful figure of impact in different scenarios. You've had it a lot in the last two years. The effects of different packages of measures in terms of, for example, the number of infections and in terms of numbers of patients in need of help have been sidelined.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u429	Yes, but we always get insights into the whole package. If you want to do your job here as a representative of the people, and if you want to be a representative of the people, you have to be able to weigh the interests between, for example, the catering industry and, on the other hand, the cultural sector, the closing or not of shops, whether or not the public, then these are important considerations for the society that we should be able to make here in a decent way. And it bothers me that on the one hand it is said 'we cannot inform the Chamber of what a particular measure is doing when it comes to reducing the reproduction number', but that the Ministry itself can state very precisely in a response to the report on 2G and the tickets: beware, this is very important, because if we continue with 2G, then the reduction in the reproduction number is just as high as if we closed the catering industry or not. Then I think: then there is, then there are the figures. And then I'd like to have them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u430	I have already answered this question, so I can give the same answer again. The same answers and the same input are also given by Mr Van Dissel during the technical briefings, where that question can also be asked directly to himself. So what I have given as an explanation in a letter of office when forwarding the TU Delft report is something based on this information that you have, and I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u431	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u432	Yes. Okay, I was with a question from Mrs. Agema. It was about which direction to take in a new phase of the epidemic. And she made a comparison with Germany, France, England; is it or is it not an ideological choice? What I would like to say is that the omikron variant is, of course, located in all European countries, but at different stages. While Ireland and the United Kingdom seem to be over the worst, countries such as Spain, Italy, Belgium and France, like the Netherlands, are still in the middle of it, with France even dealing with 465,000 new infections yesterday. 465,000! These various countries respond to this in different ways, and we can actually see that throughout the pandemic. Denmark is relaxing measures. Ireland is considering this, while other countries such as France are attracting measures. Stricter measures in the neighbouring countries are often aimed at non-vaccines. We have already discussed this in detail in the questions and the debate. In France, for example, you can only use all kinds of facilities such as sports and restaurants when you are roasted. And you know from Germany the 2G+ policy. So what we're doing is looking specifically at all the different countries. We believe that, if we make this comparison and we have to make it in the future too, we shall have to look at it very closely, and I would also like to do so with you or the overall package: what measures, what uses of any protective equipment? But also: what is the epidemiological situation, and also the situation in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u433	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for looking at the broad picture. 'Cause I think that's so essential that we're not getting into purpose. Because we have had a lot of discussions in Parliament where we thought: in the delta variant we come out of the crisis. There were differences of opinion about this; at that time, the Minister will have seen that as an interested listener. But now we have a new variant, and then it's good to look at it again. I would therefore ask the Minister to take into account the impact on the vaccination rate of the various measures. And then the Netherlands is a different country than some other neighbouring countries, because we have traditionally had a high vaccination readiness with the national vaccination programme. On the contrary, we also see in the Delft study that very compelling measures are being taken by the government, which also results in an anti-reaction that we all do not want. So I would really like to ask the Minister, even if we see the tightening up on unvaccinated people in, for example, Germany and Austria, to consider how this vaccination rate is there and what culture is in these countries, because we have the great goal in mind together, namely how we do it in the Netherlands as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u434	What Mrs Bikker is saying is: if we want to achieve the highest possible vaccination rate, we must also look at the impact of measures on the possible stimulation or inhibition of vaccinations. We would like to take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u435	I totally agree with what Mrs Bikker says. Research has already emerged that a large proportion of people who are now in doubt about vaccination would refuse to be vaccinated if we were to carry out 2G. That would be just those few percentage points that would make it impossible for us to make the 95% we have to go to, which we can probably make. Precisely with Omikron, in which this 2G is not going to offer a solution, will not offer any relief, I think we should just be cautious and cautious with those kind of draconian measures that are going to destroy more than they are going to do right. So I will return to what I also asked the previous minister. Can we look at countries like Norway, for example, that are committed to gaining trust, for example by the GP, but also by more active disinformation? You're a doctor. Maybe the KNMG or any other institute that knows how to go hard against a doctor's collective. So let us tackle the disinformation and platform spreaders and be gentle for the general practitioners. They can do more about vaccination readiness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u436	I fully endorse what Mrs Gündoğan says. Let us ensure that the best possible information is provided, so that people can weigh up carefully with the right information. This information, for example through the general practitioner, should be tailored as much as possible to their own health situation. Let me give you an example. In a previous role, I supported the possibility for obstetricians to engage in conversation with pregnant women in their own practice and, if they wished, to vaccinate immediately. That could really help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u437	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u438	Let's see. That brings me to Mrs Bikker's question. What strategy does the government have for combating omikron and where are the critical limits? I have already said that the objectives of the strategy have remained unchanged. I just mentioned them. We are also looking at the whole care chain and also at the long-term effects of the infections. The critical limits, for example with regard to care, are still at the same levels as before. It is precisely with this omicron variant that the question arises whether they are still applicable. For example, we have talked for a long time about the number of patients entering or entering a hospital, but those numbers may be very different and come to a different level of relevance when intake times are very reduced. Those are exactly the subjects we are looking at. If you look purely at the values that we had in the past and that we have applied in the past two years with regard to seven-day averages of clinical and ic-influx, then we are now at the very limit of "careful" and "serious" and still with a declining trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u439	That's good news, I think. What do we give it to the people in the hospitals, but also others who need treatment that space is there and there. At the same time, I have also expressed the concern that the omikron variant causes pressure at other stages in the care landscape, in first-line care and in the district care. In my opinion, at least in front of the Chamber, there is less view of whether that is feasible. My open question is how the cabinet keeps an eye on this and what critical values the minister had in mind there. The NOS summarized it with "controlled exodus." Is that indeed your summary? Then what does that mean "controlled" for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u440	I am grateful for this supplementary question. I can't stress the following enough. I've done the same thing in the past. There's a huge focus on hospitalizations and Ic-recordings. That's not illogical, because those are such easy-to-use numbers. In the morning at 11:00 we have the exact number of the previous 24 hours and that's it. But the reality is, you know, that the number of patients entering a hospital is only a small fraction of the total and that the great burden, once again in the current variant, is with the general practitioner, with the neighbourhood care and in many other places. In order to create sufficient capacity, we have deliberately moved a great deal towards this over the past period and asked for additional help. Let me give you an example. It is about a year since in some hospitals the OLVG is in Amsterdam there a good example of the first start of intensive home monitoring of patients, including oxygen treatment at home. That started with ten patients, then twenty patients and so on. In December, there were 2,100. The capacity has been pushed up to 6,000. This requires a lot of guidance, possibly by a hospital, but mainly by neighbourhood care and general practitioner. That is precisely why we have now said: let us do it more broadly. The Dutch Healthcare Authority is working with the GGDs and hospitals to keep the focus on the load in the full chain. At the moment it is not in hospitals, but with these kinds of infections very much in the first line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u441	I thank the Minister for this answer. I'm glad he has an eye for that. I'm still curious how he's keeping an eye on that. Is that based on signals? I don't want anything but to open things up. When I look at the hospitals, I think, well, that's good. Now we can open more quickly. But I can't do that if I don't take responsibility too and see what this means in healthcare. It's not enough to rely on stories. My quest is still to find out how the minister does it. Is he going to work with RIVM or other parties to get a better picture of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u442	Let me try to give Mrs Bikker some comfort. What has been happening for a long time is that this is specifically the subject of consultation in all ten acute care regions. In most regions there is a weekly consultation at this stage, in which all parties are at the table. The information comes directly to me, also on a weekly basis and more frequently if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u443	I hope this does not go away from my interruptions, but I am asking the Minister for any of them, which does not have to be reported to the Chamber in the detail he receives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u444	Fine. We can do that wholeheartedly. We can sketch that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u445	Good. And a term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u446	As soon as possible. We can do that with the next letter, because we get that data every week. That is often in a qualitative sense. We do that knowingly, because I don't want to ask out exact questions by general practitioners about the number of patients. Then I come to a question from Mrs Pouw-Verweij. She called for the patch to be pulled off instead of taking gloomy expectations as a measure. I would like to add that this is something that has been said here on many occasions: everyone is done with the pandemic and the virus. As soon as we can relax, so do we. No one wants measures longer than necessary. In doing so, let us be advised by the OMT, including models that have already been discussed, and we do not use the gloomy expectations, but try to be as realistic as possible. With the current epidemiological situation, the Prime Minister has already said something about this. That was also irresponsible, in the light of the predictions that were there, with all the uncertainty that there was. We have said: let us make the follow-up period for another round as short as possible. Then I come to a question from Mr Hijink, who indicated that we still know little about the long-term effects of covid on lung and heart. He asked how we look at it in the light of the high number of infections now. Fortunately, the reports about the omikron variant are less worrying at the moment than with the delta variant. The omicron variant more often gives infection in the upper respiratory tract rather than deeper in the airways. That still means that we have to monitor it, because a much greater number of infections times a smaller chance per individual can still mean that there are substantial numbers of people involved. We need to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u447	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs van der Plas on the previous point. Mrs. Van der Plas, BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u448	I do have a question on the previous point. I hear the Minister say: no one wants measures longer than they are needed. Can you give the Netherlands a view? When does it stop? We've been at it for two years. Things are constantly shifting: then, no then, no then. In the meantime, it goes on and on. When does it stop? Is there anything to be said about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u449	I'd love to, but I can't. What we've seen in the past two years doesn't stop in the possibilities of what we get now. There is continuous monitoring, for example whether new variants occur somewhere. The omicron variant spreads faster, but is less sickening. The rapid spread leads to a high number of infections, but at the moment also to a different pressure and burden on society. And then we haven't talked about people's outages and the reports you're seeing about continuity in some industries. If it stops, if omikron is the last variant, it may be that we are moving slowly towards a phase where at some point everyone has been in contact with a vaccine or with the virus itself at least once and has some form of immunity. Then the burden and the degree of illness will become less and less. But I can't predict that any more than you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u450	But people come into contact with or become infected with the corona virus and then they have natural immunity. If you're just going to use those vaccinations, it's already been shown that those vaccinations aren't entirely protective. You're not going to have to let us booster ourselves so much that at some point we can't handle such a virus at all? Wouldn't it be better to say: we're going to a society where we don't take it for granted but where the virus is there? People become infected with it and a natural immunity is being built up, which will eventually make fewer people sick. That's a strategy, too. You can't keep locking up a society like this, with so much collateral damage, for a virus that's likely to develop virologists, so to speak, into a cold virus, of which 99% of the positively tested people have mild complaints. It can't go on like this anymore, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u451	If we were to end up in a situation where everyone has immunity from the variant of the virus that is around and the virus is not very sickening, then you can end up in a situation where you deal with it like we deal with the flu. We've heard the equations with influenza and flu. We've all known that for a long time. The question you asked me is: can you predict that will happen? No, I can't. In the meantime, we have seen that if someone has experienced an infection with a British or a delta variant, he or she may then again become infected with the omikron variant. Could that also mean that if a ypsilon variant comes up next, you'll get infected with it again? Yeah, you can. So I can't give the answer. It really depends on the situation we have then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u452	Mrs Pouw-Verweij of JA21. Mrs. Van der Plas? You'll think about it for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u453	I'm about to hear the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u454	I was just thinking for a moment about what I think of the Minister's answer to my question. I'd still like to get excited. I am thinking back to this morning's technical briefing, in which we saw certain figures and the three lines based on possible scenarios. Mr Van Dissel himself says: we may have assumed too pessimistic parameters; we now assume the same length of lying as we do with delta; we assume the same number of patients who have to go to the ic as we do with delta. That could all very well be very easy. It could just be that it's only about half the number of patients that are now calculated. At the same time, the Dutch Healthcare Authority is quite positive. It says: hospitals can pick up more and more normal work and the patient intake is going well. If we say that to the businessmen in the hospitality sector, but also to the cultural sector, who say that this is no longer going to happen and that they really need a view, can the Minister not respond more to that call than he is doing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u455	Thank you for this supplementary question. That helps to emphasize once again. It has just been done and I look at the Prime Minister..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is to ensure that we can significantly reduce the number of people sitting at home after a contact. So, yeah, that's exactly what we did. That is the answer to your question. And we have also said: let us bring forward the decision-making process for any subsequent adjustment and not use the deadlines that have been in the past. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a question from Mr Stoffer. He also compared the situation with other countries, especially Spain. He asks when we will take similar steps in the Netherlands. Spain approaches the corona virus as a flu, as is often stated in the Dutch press. That's not true. They introduce a new monitoring system to monitor the corona virus very closely, as you monitor flu. That was already common practice. In the Netherlands we already have such a system. That has always been one of the pillars: keeping an eye on the virus. The fact that Spain is now working on such a monitoring system does not mean that the risk of the virus is different or minimized. This is the exact equation. I have already mentioned the other points concerning comparisons with other countries. I think it is extremely right. I think we should do it all the time. That's what's gonna happen. You have seen this from time to time in Mr Van Dissel's technical briefings. We have to do that, but it is right that we look at the complete picture. Then I come to Mr Kuzu's question. Why are we guided by uncertain forecasts based on incomplete models? Some of that has already been mentioned. We are advised by OMT and RIVM among others. This is done on the basis of models that have been used in the last two years. Mr Van Dissel said today in the technical briefing that the model is as good as the assumptions of that moment. If you look at the situation we had in December, we knew, among other things, from South Africa that there was a new variant that spread much faster. However, there was a clear lack of clarity as to the extent of illness. The reports from South Africa were that the variant was perhaps less sickening, but there were also most infections among relatively young people. The first numbers from England, among others, showed more uncertainty. At that time, the assumption was that the Omikron variant would be as sickening as the delta variant. Fortunately, we now know that this is not the case. In other words: yes, we have the models and we use them, because it helps in making balancing and making decisions. But you have to be very specific about what the assumptions have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u456	I fully agree with the Minister. The Minister should also agree with me that models are a simplification of reality and that you should do it with the information you have at the time. My objection lies mainly in the fact that the assumptions were uncertain, because that is what Van Dissel said very clearly at the press conference in December. We do make decisions that have quite a lot of impact on society and we cannot reverse them now. We've been in a lockdown for the past month, Christmas and New Year's. It wasn't the most cozy period of the year. My appeal to the new minister is therefore: break the policy of the past, taking such draconian measures on the basis of uncertain assumptions, causing you to plunge people into misery. In the future, the Minister will also not have to show pictures of young people who are burning out or in depression.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u457	Thank you, Mr Kuzu. I totally agree with that. I have deliberately shown such a picture, for example about the impact on young people. Two out of three young people currently have feelings of loneliness. That's huge, two out of three! We can keep that in mind for a while. That's the impact. So I would very much like to take this into account with you in the coming period. I maintain that it is wise to use models, but also very well to explain what the assumptions are at some point. Then we can also talk about the assumptions. Then I come to a question from Mrs Simons. She referred to 100,000 infections and additional risks of additional deaths. She also named long covid. Mr Hijink referred to this as well. What exactly is your balancing principle? Mrs Simons reminded me that I had also said something about the economy. As you know, I mentioned economics, education and other issues in a broader palette, because I think we need to make a broader assessment of the impact. It's definitely in those four goals, too. We have just mentioned it a number of times. One is the social and economic impact. If that has given me the impression that I am taking the place of the economy, then I would like to take that impression away. But I do think you should look at the total. That is also the reason for the adjustments and measures that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u458	Of course, I'm glad to hear this. And yet I cannot escape the impression that we have already taken a great deal of account of the economy in the last two years. The economy was the argument for the huge support to Booking.com, KLM.com, the boundaries that remained open, et cetera, et cetera. It worries me, then, and that may be because I have a limited picture of Mr Kuipers when I hear someone I have come to know in recent years as a caretaker, beginning shortly after his accession to this cabinet on the economy. But then that weighting still stands. I understand that's a complicated one. But the economy, that is also small and medium-sized enterprises, the catering industry, that is also the people who make art. I'm trying to get a closer look at how these trade-offs are made. I have also asked in my speech, perhaps Mr Kuipers will go into this in a broader sense of how such difficult considerations are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u459	When it comes to the consideration of various issues mentioned by Mrs Simons, including aspects such as the economy, I would like to look at my colleague from EZK. That's not to diminish the question. Personally, I make it very clear that this is in line with my role as a health care provider, which is what the pressure is and what the accessibility of care is, bearing in mind the access to care for all patients. The latter has just been mentioned; I am now also looking at Mrs Pouw-Verweij. In a previous role, I have stressed this endlessly: it is not just about pressure on care, but also about access to care. That's a great social asset, and you have to keep it up. That is my consideration. That is what we are doing together in a cabinet discussion. It is not for nothing that we are sitting here with four members of the cabinet and not just with the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u460	Of course, I still have a few questions. I hope this will not be an interruption, but I am very curious to see what is to come, so that I know whether I should ask all my questions now, or whether I should wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u461	It's best to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u462	Good. Then I go to Mrs Den Haan's question. The booster started late, the care is under pressure, did we miss the point? I would like to say that we need to look explicitly at what can be improved. We have just talked about models and predictions. The same applies to the timing of any booster campaigns. I think it's wise right now. We all take into account that it will be necessary at some point to carry out a booster campaign. The Health Council has been asked to explicitly consider and act in good time when such a booster campaign will be needed next time. If it is not necessary, it is attractive for everyone, but it is really wise for this moment to do so. What is the most optimal timing in terms of possible new variants and also the epidemiological situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u463	It is nice to see that you answer every question, which leads to a follow-up question. I wonder how many more questions you're going to answer. That is not personally addressed to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u464	Thank God, Mr. Chairman, I don't have to say anything about that. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I understand that very well. Except we were really late last time. This was mainly due to the advice of the Health Council. I understand the considerations that the Health Council should take, but sometimes it is also good to say that we should have done this a little differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u465	A reflection that I have already given, and which I have to pay attention to in my new role, is that the answer of the Health Council depends partly on the timing and nature of the question. I think I have said enough of that for now. Over the next few months, we will be in this together to see when we can decide which question to ask. Then I will continue with Mrs Den Haan's question: can the Minister explain why different vaccinations are not applied in the vaccination campaign, so the combination of different vaccines? The Health Council advised on 2 November to booster with a mRNA vaccine. A study from the United Kingdom reports the most increase in antibodies following a boost with such a mRNA vaccine. That is why it is being used now. The Health Council advised separately about a booster with Jansen and found that its protection is less good. There was another question from Mrs Den Haan: are there any dates as to whether this works with omikron? Omikron is, as you know, only dominant of just before the end of the year, between Christmas and old and new. Currently, the most recent studies show that a boost with a messenger RNA vaccine is effective to prevent serious disease. I think you are familiar with a study from the UK, which shows that the effectiveness in terms of protection against hospitalisation after a boost with a messenger RNA vaccine in omikron increases from about 50% to about 85%. That's very beneficial. I think that is partly the cause of the fact that we are still seeing a low occupation in hospitals in the Netherlands at the moment, with a boost status of about 90% among the 60-plussers. Then there is another question from Mrs Van der Plas. The issue was that omikron affects both vaccinees and non-vaccines and that frequent boosters weaken resistance. The answer to this is that the previous vaccination provided sufficient protection against the delta variant for some time. However, it was found to be largely insufficient to protect against particularly serious disease in the omicron variant. The booster does indeed have a strong strengthening effect on this. I just mentioned all the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u466	I don't know what to call this, but I hope it doesn't go off my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u467	If you're going to say all that now, we'll still be here at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u468	I have no active memory of this question. I don't think I asked the question. But I like it. I've been in one room for too long with the people here this week, so I get infected with "no active memory."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u469	I thought it was a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u470	It could have been Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u471	I thought I'd step forward for a moment, because I started to doubt myself. I do not think I asked this question, but thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u472	Okay, you're welcome. Like I said, I thought it was a good question. I have to apologize if I mention a wrong name. Finally, there is a question from Mr Van Haga about vaccination in children aged 5 to 12 years. You've seen the advice of the Health Council. They have updated that specifically once again following the current omikron variant. Earlier, they had given an answer to the delta variant. The Health Council is of the opinion and has considered that the health benefits of vaccination in 5- to 12-year-olds are significantly higher than the potential risk of vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u473	I believe that Minister Kuipers has now reached the end of the block of boosters and vaccinations. If that's true, then I have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u474	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u475	The booster campaign has finally got off to a good start, but there is still quite a large percentage of people who have not responded to that invitation to booster. Now I understand there's going to be a big media campaign. We're gonna say, "Go booster, go booster, go booster!" But does Minister Kuipers know what's stopping these people from actually setting up that booster? In other words, are we gonna make it through a campaign like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u476	First of all, the booster campaign is still ongoing. I mentioned that 90% effect in the 60-plussers is a very important one. We're on just over 50% now. We all agree that these overalls are still very incomplete. This means that we are going to do a media and public campaign, that we are going to continue all the measures we have already taken and that we are going to provide everyone with as much information as possible. We've already mentioned the GP. I also mentioned others, such as the midwife. Also think of a Vaccination Doubt Phone. We are taking a lot of measures to try to reach as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u477	We're gonna see how that works out. I had already expected information on what we are doing with the boosters for the 12- to 18-year-olds. Any word on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u478	A question lies with the Health Council, while the EEA has not yet approved the boost for this group. In addition, the use of a mRNA vaccine, a Pfizer vaccine, for vaccination for this group has been approved. The supplementary question is: can the same vaccine also be used for the boost? That hasn't been approved yet. Nevertheless, the question has already been submitted to the Health Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u479	Is there any indication of when the advice will come?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u480	In the second term. Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group, then Mr Stoffer, SGP, and then Mr Kuzu of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u481	Of course, I didn't ask the Minister what the Health Council had advised. I actually asked him, from his expertise as a doctor, what his consideration is. I'm not a doctor, I'm not a historian. I'm an engineer, so I'd like to finally hear an expert's assessment. Because you're vaccinating for yourself. And you're gonna vaccinate children to protect them from that disease. So you have to weigh up what they could get from that. If you look at the numbers that have been contaminated by the way, but you're going to have to deal with them later, then I think you'll see that five people under 24 years of age have died, throughout the whole corona state. We don't even know if they died on or with corona. Probably just a car accident. I would like to ask the following question. If there's hardly any effect on a child, just a brat, how can we decide this? How can we give this advice? I'd like to hear from you your medical consideration. How can you see a positive result in the massive vaccination of children, when that child itself, for that individual child, is really not going to have a positive effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u482	Thank you to Mr Van Haga for this request for an additional explanation. His first question was about the following. I'm being addressed in my role as a former doctor. I fully endorse the Health Council's report. If you were to ask me if I would advise it, I would answer yes in full. Yesterday I received an explanation from the President of the Health Council of this opinion. The explanatory statement was cliff-and-ready. You should imagine that, although most children do not get seriously ill from a corona infection, there are a number of children who are in the order of about 1 in 4.000................................................................................................................................................................. That usually brings them to the ic. They are often seriously ill and partly have long-term complications. That's an opportunity that I think parents should weigh up. That's a long shot. You can say: 1 in 4,000 I don't think much. No, but it's definitely substantial. Regarding the risk of complications in vaccinations of children, it was considered by the Health Council. They look at one specific disease, namely inflammation of the heart muscles and the pericardium. This occurs in approximately one in 1 million vaccinations of children of this age. Then it's a trade-off. But I thought it was very cliff-and-ready and I endorse the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u483	I can't entirely judge it, of course, but it seems to me that it's similar for children to the flu, so you should treat it the same way. But if you see 1 in 4,000 kids on the ICU, then the ICU should be full of kids right now. Or are you saying the odds are 1 in 4,000? I don't quite understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u484	Suppose that all children currently have no antibodies against covid and have not been through it or in the coming period, then according to the Health Council, the next 100 children will be in intensive care for children. That's a lot of them. It's a serious disease. Mr Van Haga's question was: do you agree with the conclusions and the opinion of the Health Council? Yeah, totally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u485	I doubt if my question should be in this block, but I have a question about boostering. I asked a question about the warning given by the European Medicines Agency about too frequent boosters. That could weaken the immune response. The question that I had was: what does that mean for the pricking plans in the Netherlands? But I doubt whether it belongs in this block or in another one, but that is obviously up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u486	We're looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u487	I can go on quietly, because I still have a whole bunch of questions here about vaccinations, and maybe that question comes with that. The direct answer is: boosters may be necessary depending on the epidemiological situation. I am referring to the emergence of a possible new variant and reduction of protection. We have seen over the past period that in time, with a long run after vaccination and a larger interval, the protection against serious illness in the delta variant decreased, that the protection with the emergence of a new variant decreased even further and that the degree of protection was given an important boost after a third shot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u488	Of course, I'm interested in the perspective after that. This is clear; that was also the subject this morning in the briefing given by Mr Van Dissel. My question is specifically about the warning. Looks like there could be a lot of variants. It may be that there is a huge amount of boosting to do, but that can also have negative effects. At least that wasn't denied this morning. The question is whether this is included in the prick plans that are further developed in the Netherlands. I can imagine that it comes under the long term and the Minister does not say directly: it is exactly sister or something. My question is, is there any insight into that? Is it being looked at and taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u489	That touches on the question I just got and have already answered. Yeah, it's definitely under review. I've asked the Health Council to consider that. But if you ask me when exactly we need to do a next booster round or, perhaps more explicitly, if you are asking me if I am sure that another booster round is needed, then I must remain guilty of the answer to both questions at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u490	First of all, I would like to ask the Minister if he has any insight into the figures of people who cannot be boosted at the moment because they have already experienced an infection. Are there any figures of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u491	Is this about children or adults specifically? Adults? There aren't any very recent figures on that. I already have in the discussion within the department... I cannot yet answer the question whether it will come. In the past, among other things, Sanquin is only a small part of the population of Sanquin. One of the considerations in the coming period must be whether we do it again. It's still a qualitative answer, but I don't have an exact view of it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u492	I assume that my number of interruptions does not change if I ask the Minister when he can see that and if he can inform the Chamber about it. I think that, of course, matters for the percentages, especially when we see that the numbers are rising enormously at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u493	Yeah, I get that. Yeah, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u494	Sure, sure. Yes. I don't know exactly when we can see it, but this is one of the parameters we need to be sure of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u495	It may be that the minister himself is going to bring it up, but I was wondering how...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u496	Serology?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u497	No, I'll wait for them. I wanted to ask you about protein vaccines, especially about Novavax and Valneva. I am getting a lot of signals from people who say they haven't been vaccinated at all, because they don't want or can get any of the current vaccines for all kinds of reasons, but they would like one of these vaccines. I also get signals from people who say they don't really want a booster anymore, but they do if they can do it with a vaccine like that. I know the vaccines haven't been approved yet. But I was wondering how the new minister looks at these vaccines. Is there any more insight into how large the group is that is interested in these vaccines?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u498	Unfortunately, I have to remain guilty of this. I can ask the staff if they have exact numbers for that. Then I can mention it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u499	You will return to it in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u500	Yes. If that is not the case, then we can take it with us in another letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u501	It's been very ritualized.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u502	Oh, well. I thought you were gonna say this didn't happen to you because I couldn't answer. Then there's a question from Mrs. Chicken. When do we have a decent communication campaign on boosters and vaccinations? And when do we have any information on how to vaccinate children? That's going to touch the question that's just been asked. There is an extensive public campaign around the booster. I have already mentioned a number of aspects of this. It is now being intensified. It should be, given the current status. We have already talked about the number of places that are just not being filled out at the moment. In most places you can now walk in freely accessible. It doesn't have to be by appointment anymore. And even then, those spots aren't filled. We have to try to get that up as much as possible, because even for the coming period enough boosts can help reduce the number of infections, while opening as much as possible. With regard to corona vaccination for children, parents should be informed about the possibility and information provided as far as possible. I myself happened to look again yesterday at Rijksoverheid.nl, specifically on this point. I also saw an extensive interview with a pediatrician, with a careful consideration of all the pluses and minuses. If there are signs that this information is not enough, then I would like it to be looked at further.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u503	I asked that because another pediatrician performs almost all the talk shows and does not always give the same unambiguous answers. There's nothing the Minister can do about that. It strikes me very much that I see more gambling ads passing by than information about the importance of boosters, except on the site of the government. I miss careful information about vaccinations, also aimed at children themselves. My daughter is 11. He can really take information himself. I would therefore like to make a general appeal to make that information more accessible in more places, in more languages, in pictures, etc., for now, but also for the future. I'm not an expert in this field. I am in many other areas, let me add for the viewers at home. But I think that would be really wise, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u504	Thank you. I'd like to take this advice with me. This is incredibly important. I really think that people should be able to make a proper assessment, but they should also be able to do so on the basis of as easily accessible information as possible. I come to a question from Mrs Paulusma. She asked when there would be more clarity about the validity of the vaccination and the booster. The arrival of omikron means that there is not enough knowledge at present to determine the period of validity of the booster. In the long term, the validity of a boost will be in line with expectations. I can't say anything specific about that right now. At present, the cabinet is considering using 270 days and 180 days respectively for primary vaccination and recovery. Those periods also apply to a digital corona certificate. For vaccination, it would make sense to do so, including a boost. I am going to ask a question from Mr Stoffer. It was about the EEA and about too frequent boosts. Some of this has already been appointed. Right now, we're in a boost campaign. It remains to be seen whether this will soon be possible for 5 year olds to 12 year olds. That has just been mentioned. Whatever it takes in the near future, we just need to really see. But it is really wise to take into account that a boost is also needed at a later moment. Mr Hijink asked a question about the profits in pharmacy on the one hand, and insufficient vaccination on the other. The cabinet shares the view that we must help those who have been severely affected by the crisis. A lot of support measures are also aimed at this. I'm looking at my colleague. We also have to look beyond what is happening in the Netherlands. We also contribute substantially to international programmes aimed at accessing vaccine. The cabinet appreciates that manufacturers have developed effective and safe vaccines at an unprecedented rate. They're important. In the administrative considerations for action, we are widely advised by agencies, such as the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, the RIVM and the other departments. Then there is a question from Mrs Bikker: how does the cabinet view how vaccinations are made available to the countries around us? Together with the EU, we have committed ourselves to the motto 'Get a vaccine and give a vaccine'. In this context, we have donated 27 million vaccines in the last year. That is a number that corresponds to what we used ourselves in the Netherlands. We have the same commitment for the current year. It's just gonna stand there. This is also in line with Mrs Gündoğan's question on the same subject. I think it is also in line with what you rightly said, that global vaccination and the pursuit of the highest possible vaccination rate throughout the world population is simply the way to reduce the rate of emergence of new variants, but also to ensure that not only we but also other countries are affected as little as possible by this virus and all its consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u505	It is good to hear from the cabinet that this commitment is unabated there. What I get from the aid organisations is that the Netherlands regularly also donates vaccines that are quite close to the expiry date, which gives an extra difficulty in countries of arrival, especially because they do not have the facilities to keep those vaccines properly. We will talk about it later, or at another time, also with the Minister of BuHa-OS. I would like to ask the Minister for the moment to pay that particular attention, so that those vaccines are not just that we are giving away quickly what we had left, but that we are contributing to that mission that Minister Kuipers has so beautifully set out here to protect the most vulnerable people around the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u506	Thank you for this signal. Just to be clear, the vaccines we donate do not go through the Netherlands to another place. That's only a very small part that goes directly. Most of it goes through an internationally operating agency, which is delivered directly to. We're buying, but they're going straight there. What I hear you say is: make sure that there may be delays in that process, through that agency. I don't know the details, but we can check. Then there was a question from Mrs Van den Berg about mobile puncture sites and access to vaccination for migrant workers. There are many examples of this, via GGD's, via mobile locations, the puncture box, vaccinating on site and also creating open walk-in hours. Much is being done to achieve as much as possible there. I also know of the situation that the GGD Rotterdam-Rijnmond has long allowed for vaccination of seafarers entering the port. All to help as broad as possible so that the vaccination rate is as high as possible internationally, and that is in line with the previous question. Then we come to the long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u507	I understand the comment I'm hearing in the audience. We have had one theme, but I think you have already answered a number of questions about vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u508	Yeah, I've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u509	No, but I get the question, where are we in the story? I think we've had themes 1 and 5.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u510	Excuse me. I differed from the order, but that had to do with the fact that I already had a lot of questions about vaccination, so I thought: let's link that up right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u511	That never happens here! Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u512	If that's what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna do it again later. The long-term strategy, and then we'll come back to the order. It's already been appointed. In the meantime, we're in a different phase. I would remind you that there was initially a sickening variant, no one with immunity, and total ignorance of the disease and so on. In 2020 we learned quickly and in 2021 vaccines came. Then we thought at some point: this is really the way to everything open. But unfortunately we came to the conclusion already in the autumn of 2021 that that was not the case, that it only had a temporary effect, and we were at some point with the need, when we saw reinfection again... In the summer of '21 you even saw that the number of infections was higher than in the summer of '20. At some point, the need for a boost campaign arose, which we have just talked about. At the beginning of November the thought was "not yet necessary," but it was actually a week later "we really need to review it." So if we are now thinking about a different situation, with less pressure on care, but with a lot of outages from employees, in education, in the police, in fire brigades and in other sectors, then we must also make a broader assessment. And that's what needs to be taken care of. It's just been mentioned. At present it is not the pressure on hospitals, but the pressure on completely different places in the care. I'm combining a few questions. These are, first and foremost, Mrs Paulusma's questions. When will we have more prospects for the longer term and how will we ensure that we do not go from one measure to another? As mentioned, in the current situation we are dealing with a variant that is less sickening. This means that we are now really thinking about a long-term approach. In my introduction, I mentioned it for a moment, and some of you have already mentioned it: we really need to look for a broad approach. It's not a care issue. It is not an issue of for example more ic-beds or more hospital beds or of more possibilities for oxygen breathing at home. It really is something of all sectors and of all of us. I just mentioned it. If you flatten it, the number of infections is quite simply the result of the number of contacts when you get infected with a contact. That means we have to do something about all these factors. If we want to limit the number of contacts as little as possible, on very good grounds, then we have to do something about the chance that you will get infected with a contact. Please take the current situation into account. The estimate of RIVM is that at present about 1 in 75 Dutch people are infected. That's just right now: 1 in 75. That number is rising. So that could be 1 in 60 next week, direction 1 in 50 or even more. That means you have to do something everywhere. What I often hear, also in a conversation I had yesterday with all kinds of sectors, is: but we can open, because no one gets infected with us. Well, if you smash it very flat: at the moment more than 50% of the infections occur in the home situation. But those infections come from somewhere. They are brought into the home from work, from education, from public transport, from... et cetera. This means that for all these sectors the question is: what can we do together? I spoke about this yesterday, very widely, with representatives from various sectors. The answer just made me optimistic. It was said very widely: we want to take responsibility for this and we really want to do all kinds of work for it. Some said they already had extensive plans and others said they were working on plans right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u513	I was "triggered," as it is called today, by the Minister's comments. He says that most infections take place at home and those infections come from somewhere. Now we've been talking about schools where so many infections take place. The Minister said: "We know that there are long-term consequences. Kids get sick. Some kids die. On the other hand, we don't know enough about long covid." Is it, in short, his belief that the infections that occur at home can sometimes be very well brought into the house by the same children?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u514	Thank you, Mrs Simons. Yes, children do bring contaminations into the house, as adults do. I deliberately mentioned all sectors. The people also take them from work or from public transport. Or from the catering industry; not at the moment, but in a normal situation where everything is open, it is. So it comes from all the different angles. The reason why I mention it so specifically is that otherwise we run the risk that we will also mention in the solutions something that is very specific about a sector, such as 'if the schools solve it, then there is no other problem', or 'if the hospitality industry does it properly, then there is no problem anywhere else'. That's not true. We'll know that in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u515	Mrs Simons, BET1. Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u516	Good. Well, that's a shame; but, Mr President. That is why I am convinced that it is wise to help the schools. Because what we know is that at this point in time, as we have designed in the last few months in the country, adults must at least keep a distance of 1.5 metres, with masks, so they must take all kinds of measures to prevent these infections. There is one sector in which we do not do that, and that is a sector where people really have no other choice, because we think compulsory education is extremely important. So it's still a mystery to me why we wouldn't help schools do better. And that brings me to my question, Mr President. I've asked the Prime Minister before. Is there a good reason why, apart from everything else we do, especially for adults, we would not help schools organise it in such a way that we at least reduce that opportunity as much as possible, especially because we do not yet know what the long-term effects are on children, and it could be that we are currently doing an entire generation, and perhaps several, so much serious damage that may be quite easy to prevent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u517	I do not want to take away the question from Mrs Simons, but I would very much like to refer to the answer already given by the Prime Minister. And I have, frankly, nothing to add at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u518	You will continue your speech. And I would like to suggest that, after the long-term approach, I do not know how many questions we have left for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u519	Well, there are a few. Okay, a question from Mrs. Tielen. It is about the objectives for covid, and whether there is a careful weighting, I am sorry, in my words, of all the different sectors, and also whether the care for the really vulnerable is well-equipped. What I already mentioned is that, for example, the long-term impact of the measures on young people is very high, but the same applies to vulnerable elderly people, for example, who, even after a boost and the 90%-boost rate, are still feeling very high at risk, and therefore, I see that even in my environment, for example, there are fewer contacts. And they don't do that for a while, but they've been doing that for a very long time. This means that we are also trying to be widely advised in policy, not only by an OMT, which has often come by, but also, for example, by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, by a behavior unit of the RIVM, and by other parties such as the mayors and the Security Council and so on. Because it is precisely this broad input that is very much needed. I recognize the signal of "Watch out, this affects a lot of people and lots of parties." A number of questions came from different sides about the RIVM models. We've been thinking about that for a while. One supplementary question was actually there. The need was expressed for more forecasts, also on the basis of other assumptions, and perhaps also the use of other models. And one of you also referred to an article today in the newspaper. I would like to say to the Chamber that I am going to talk to RIVM to see how we can move towards a broader modeling, and thus towards more forecasts. I can't promise when, but I'm gonna talk about that. I think that is also sensible, and I am now looking at my fellow Members for our decision-making. A model will always be a model, we get that. We use models very wide, even without realizing it. We may be watching the weather report of the KNMI every night, but we use it much wider than that. Purely the fact that we arrive at the supermarket at five o'clock in the afternoon and that there is still a pack of milk, has to do with a model and a calculation. We're gonna need those models. But more models, that can help in a careful consideration. Now you do not hear me say 'the model that has been used for the past two years is not enough'. No, that model has really proven its worth very well. But broader can help, so I'd like to make that commitment. Then we come to a question by Mr Wassenberg about good priorities, investment in healthcare, but above all: withdraw the corona law. The answer at the moment, and I have already mentioned this in the general speech on this subject, is: of course we want to return to the normal situation as soon as possible, but at the moment... And I'm just going to refer to the epidemiological situation we're in right now, with over 40,000 infections a day. The pressure that this puts on all kinds of places, especially due to the drop-out of staff or, for example, pressure on first-line care, is such that it is simply too early at the moment to undertake such an activity. Since last Saturday, there have been relaxations. We see what happens to the infections. There is no reflection of the relaxation that has been taking place since last Saturday. This time is simply too early to make such decisions. The Prime Minister has already said a great deal about the time when there will be a next decision-making round. Developments at present, at least in terms of pressure on care, are favourable. Then there is another question from Mr Wassenberg, about the social challenge. I'll share that. I have just said a few things about this, and that is precisely why there is a social sounding board with representatives from various sectors. I already indicated that I spoke to them yesterday. The previous Minister of VWS did so in December. I thanked them for the broad input. That was really very valuable input. I've been talking about feeling responsibility for a while, but I'm also getting responsibility. I think the word is "optimistic" when I think of the input that everyone there gave and also the willingness of a very broad palette of parties to do something about it. We will repeat this in the coming weeks and also look at what we should do with this input. Then there was a question from Mrs van den Berg on seven points for the medium term. She referred to a motion calling for dialogue in the border regions and with border municipalities and exploring how the problems caused by differences in corona policy can be avoided as much as possible. That motion's already been taken. I'm gonna take a look at my colleague. It was picked up by the ministries of EZK and BZK in the context of the emergency package of jobs and economy. The Chamber is already informed of that if it is well. My colleague will undoubtedly be able to comment on this further. Then I come to Mrs Kuik's question. When is the real long-term perspective coming? That real long-term perspective consists of three tracks. The first is a re-examined approach for the rest of this winter. Very soon you will receive a letter on this subject, in accordance with the deadlines set for it. In parallel, you will receive a medium-term COVID-19 preparedness plan. It won't go away anymore. What do you have to do in the long run? How do you ensure that you have a timely signal about a possible boost, about care coordination, about capacity and so on. At the same time, you will receive a policy agenda of pandemic preparedness for the even longer term. It is not about covid, it is about possibilities and opportunities, and if anything else happens, you are prepared for that. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u520	It is well known that health is very important whether or not you come to the hospital. The Minister also referred to young people, many of whom are depressed. You know that exercising and moving are important for them to stay healthy. Last time, a motion from the CDA was widely adopted. It was about the importance of sport and exercise and called for it to be considered essential for the medium-term structure. This morning we received a letter about this. It first explains technically why it cannot necessarily become essential. Then I think, well, fine. "But we give the high priority." I think: excellent, there are several ways to go to Rome. But the venom is in the tail, because there it is said: within the epidemiological space. In my opinion, that is exactly what we have said as a Chamber: exercising and moving must always be possible. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als er toch weer de ...]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u521	Epidemiological.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u522	If there is epidemiological space again, then nothing has changed and it is still a bit: "can't" lies in the cemetery and "will not" lies next to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u523	You can rest assured that this Minister has a high priority as regards sport and the opening up of sports venues for as long as possible. I know the Cabinet has that, too. I can add that it is extremely important not only for mental health, but also for physical health, for example your immune system, that there is as much exercise as possible. It is not just about children, adolescents or young adults, it is about all ages, all in their own way. I myself am a fan of running and I always say that it is old man's running. It's about as many things as possible. The evil in the tail is, after all, the relevant remark which, I suspect, we all endorse. We have had situations in the past and also in the recent past where the number of infections was at a high level and there was a doubling rate of one week. If that happens, there may be moments where we would again, however annoying, be forced together to make a decision on an intervention that is very broad. That could also affect the sport. So, yes, the venom is in the tail. It really is an exceptional situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u524	Let me turn to another point that I would have expected in the medium term. Earlier we talked here about 1G, always testing. We received a letter at that time which showed that it would be extremely difficult, both financially and in particular organizationally, to implement it. In my input, I said that I had received emails from companies that say that they can link the self-tests to a QR code in a fraud-proof manner, so that everyone can show that they have done a self-test today that was negative. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to look into whether that could be a solution, because that could help us and masse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u525	Of course, I'm very willing to look at it. Let me mention for now that we will have another discussion at a later date, apart from what we will say about corona access cards and testing capacity. At present we have sufficient test capacity and more is bought in. Very wide bets can reach 4.5 million tests per day! Not a week, but a day! And then we really need to talk about the impact in terms of human resources and costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u526	I have another question about the care capacity. Of course, this minister knows more than anyone what has happened to people who work in health care over the last two years, not only in terms of the workload, but also in terms of what they see and experience. We know that the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom of the list when you look at a number of similar European countries. What does the Minister intend to do in the near future to ensure that our people in care endure, to ensure that there are no more people leaving and hopefully to ensure that care remains attractive in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u527	Thank you for this question. In the current care capacity, it is clear that it needs to be analysed and expanded where possible. We have already had a number of questions about the intensivecare capacity. We must realise that intensivecare capacity has indeed increased in the past period. If we were already able to extend it by 10% or 20% in the next period, I am not saying that this is feasible or an objective, and we are dealing with situations such as we had in the past period, where the number of infections is increasing by 70% in a week, it would mean that with an additional capacity of 20%, whether at the ic or in the clinic, two days of grace is being bought before you have to take the same measures. This does not mean that we should not focus on it, but it is not the panacea for not having to take action again in need, as has sometimes been outlined. I tasted that from time to time in the discussion. That's one. The second is: apart from capacity, we really need to focus on optimising care coordination in regions. We have seen regularly in the past period that, at the moment it was stuck in one place in an entire chain, patient flows were automatically turned around somewhere else and then it got stuck there. You can remember the situation from the beginning of November with the hospitals in Limburg, which were completely stuck. I have already said something about this in another role in a technical briefing. If at that time you zoomed deeply into what caused it, then the primary cause was that there was a shortage of capacity in community care and that GPs were forced to send patients who needed help to the emergency services. We need to look at care coordination and make sure that patients come to the right place as much as possible. Then we need to look at where you are using the scarce staff to create capacity where in that chain and in that region the weakest link is, instead of just saying, for example, if we only have 20% more ic-beds. So care coordination and care capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u528	Thank you. Then I would like to suspend in the context of prevention...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u529	Excellent plan!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u530	... which I think this minister is also a fan of. I want to suspend until 8:35 p.m. and I'm asking the Minister to see what questions are left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u531	Yeah, I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u532	That would be nice, because we have two other directors, whom we would also like to see in action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u533	The next item is the follow-up to the debate on developments in the coronavirus. I give the floor again to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u534	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have, in part at your request, looked at the subjects from the other folders we have already had. I've sort of grouped them together, so hopefully we can get through the rest a little faster. This might compromise the order I mentioned at the beginning. They're still the same groups, but I may have just reversed the order. There were a few more questions about care and care capacity. There was a question from Mrs Den Haan whether we could explore how to organise the care around the acute axis differently. That is an important subject that appeals to me very much. We have already announced in the coalition agreement that we are going to look at the future resilience of acute care. That goes beyond what we need in corona time. Let me emphasise this very much. In fact, corona is only a very small part of the whole. That means I want to work on care coordination in regions. The first pilots for care coordination centres are already running. We must also do more about prevention. The previous cabinet has already made a first move towards this other establishment of acute care. I'd like to take that up again. Then there was one more question from Mrs. Chicken. It was about threats in health care. She set Dr. Bernard's example. It was also about disinformation. I think that this is an important subject and that we put the subject away too often on the basis of case law. Mrs Kuik knows, as I do, from a previous position that threats in the care sector are commonplace these days. These are nurses, paramedics, doctors: all people who work with soul and salvation from a deep conviction to help others. For example, they are trying, like Dr Bernard, to make the best possible access to vaccines, without even talking about vaccination or anything else. I fully agree that we really need to put a stop to this. We must make every effort to make a point of making this point. When I saw Dr Bernard's example in the news, I told my secretary I wanted to contact him personally. That hasn't happened yet, but it did indicate that this really hits me. We need to keep naming this. It's also about disinformation. Let's start with the purely legal setting. All BIG-registered healthcare providers are subject to disciplinary law. Doctors must comply with professional standards, otherwise they will violate disciplinary standards. The inspection, a patient or a direct interested party may file a disciplinary complaint. A colleague can do the same. A disciplinary judge may impose the measure of withdrawal of the entry in the BIG register on a BIG-registered healthcare provider. He determines that individually. So you can do that through a disciplinary judge. Disciplinary colleges are independent. I can't just intervene directly, and I shouldn't. I totally agree with Mrs Chicken that things are really not right here. That is not possible, because we are truly committed to broad and correct information, once again from a medical profession. I therefore have to contact the inspection to hear how it assesses this situation. I can tell you that she is already working on this. I would, of course, like to follow how the inspection continues to deal with this. If necessary, I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u535	I am very pleased with these words, because, like the Minister, I, as a Member of Parliament, am not the one who can judge these kinds of things, but it is very important that we say in this public debate that disinformation cannot be done and that professional standards are not there for nothing. That is certainly true if they are involved in intimidating practices, which unfortunately happens now, because I see that again in my timeline today. So I can only encourage it and wait for a further response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u536	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the subject of testing and tickets. A lot of questions were asked and comments were made about the corona tickets and the TU Delft report.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u537	Before you continue, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Paulusma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u538	You went a little faster to the next block. I had another question about capacity. I could have asked that question on the long-term issue, but in my speech I also referred to a motion that I tabled with the CDA colleague in the previous period. That motion was about emergency hospitals. In my speech, I asked the Minister how he looked at Omikron. If this is less sickening and the length of time on the ice is shorter, what does that mean for hospitals, staff and care capacity, and in particular for catching up care?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u539	At the moment the capacity is also used to the maximum for catching-up care. That is extremely important, because we have seen waiting lists rise in the fourth quarter of last year, including those for critical care. In this respect, I am also very pleased with the commitment of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, which monitors this very critically and really talks with the regions and the centres, to ensure that the capacity is first and foremost used for the critically planned care. I know Mrs Paulusma is doing the same thing. At the moment, when it comes to the ic occupation, for example, I am much more interested in the number of regular patients that lie there than in the number of covid patients, because you can see whether you can do that catch-up care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u540	Thank you. An interruption? No, he's not coming yet. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u541	I'll get to the corona tickets and the TU Delft report. First of all, I would like to make a very general remark, because I understandably hear a lot of comments about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u542	Before you go any further, I understand that there will be a further round of questions on this subject. So there's still a chance for the MPs to ask some more detailed questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u543	That was indeed the first thing I wanted to refer to. A written round of factual questions on that report is planned. I suggest I answer those questions before giving a broader appreciation of the report. I would now like to make one comment. I'm very pleased with the report. It is also good, as has been said, to have scientific reports. The report shows the following. The use of corona tickets in the various forms can have a dampening effect on the spread of viruses. The extent of that effect depends on the epidemiological situation, especially if you calculate it in percentage damping. And the differences between the different modalities depend somewhat on both the epidemiological situation and the intensity with which you use them. That's my first appreciation now. It has been said that I make a certain choice right away. However, that is a false quote. I attach great importance to the report, but I also attach great importance to answering the factual questions first and then having a further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u544	However, there are a lot of people in the country who are concerned about a new VWS minister who does highlight the positive aspects of a possible corona pass, but does not mention the negative aspects. The corona admission certificate would be at the expense of vaccination readiness; we also see this in the behaviour study of TU Delft. But these negative aspects are not mentioned, which in any case gives rise to the suggestion that this minister is pre-sorting for a certain outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u545	I absolutely do not want to suggest that I pre-sort on any outcome. That is why I would like to make it very clear that I am quoted or positioned in a certain way in the press. I will also mention one of the negative effects. Much has just been made quite understandable about the 1G policy and many tests. The report is wider. There are not only models in it, there is also behavioral research and so on. The researchers' assessment is that the broad deployment of a 1G policy in certain situations could lead to a 50% reduction in visits to all kinds of facilities. That's one of the potential negative effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u546	It's 44.9% to be exact, because I've been going through it very well. I have read it very carefully, because this subject affects a lot of people in the country. There's just a division in society. There are people who are fiercely opposed to this. The principle is not good either, that one group of people should control the other group of people in order to get access to a cinema or possibly at school or at work. These are, of course, undesirable outcomes. Mr. Chairman. I don't want the discussion to be about 1G right now. We can also talk about this, but I talked about 2G and 3G and the legislative proposals pending before the House of Representatives. If the Minister is talking about 10% and that could mean opening up the catering industry, then you cannot tell me that there is no pre-sorting. That suggestion will be awakened. Or am I really wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u547	I would like to say very clearly that I would like to answer the written questions first and then have the discussion. The only thing I do in a summary of the report is to reflect what it actually says, namely that the use of corona access cards can lead to a damping effect in terms of the number of infections. Mr Kuzu will not entirely agree with that, but that is what it says. That 44% and 50% are two different subjects. What Mr Kuzu refers to is that 44% is the damping effect, with a wide use of 1G, on the number of infections. What I'm referring to with the number of 50%, is the damming effect on the number of visitors, because you just see a barrier in 1G. That's one of the potential negative effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u548	Mr Kuzu's question was also whether you were pre-sorting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u549	And the answer is no. I will be the first to answer these questions and then we will continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u550	In general terms, the status letter of the cabinet states that, as of 1 February, there will be a choice to harmonise the period of validity of a recovery certificate with other European countries. That's gonna happen from the 1st of February. Now it is true that in November it was decided that the recovery certificate is valid for nine months. I'm getting signals from people who now see in their CoronaCheck app that if they've had an infection in the Netherlands or tested positive, it's valid for six months. I was wondering if the CoronaCheck app is gonna change the fact that the recovery certificate is valid for nine months, even abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u551	I have already mentioned this harmonisation in terms of 270 and 180 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u552	In order to avoid any misunderstandings, the state-of-the-art letter states that the aim is to harmonise on 1 February. I assume harmonisation means 270 or 180 days. But which one is it gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u553	It is being harmonised with the European situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u554	That's 270 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u555	That's 270, but I'm gonna take a look at the Prime Minister. Let's double-check that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u556	I can see the doubt. The Minister will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u557	To make it absolutely clear: the CoronaCheck app now has 180 days.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u558	I think I can get the information right here. I just want to know exactly and not give the wrong information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u559	That was Mr. Kuzu's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u560	The Labour Party and I, which in this case happens to be the same...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u561	That's what I assumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u562	Sure. I have always said that I want to look openly at measures if they are effective and proportionate in relation to what we are asking. That is one of the reasons why I also supported the Corona Access Card, although a large part of the Chamber was not in favour of it. With that same open look, I'm looking at 2G. But I've become more critical, because its effectiveness is compromised with the omikron variant. At the same time I know that among others D66 but also the VVD have gradually become rather armed behind 2G. So my question is: does that help? Does that prevent too dogmatic a look at this measure? Can I trust the Minister to have an open view of both effectiveness and proportionality? That is what is needed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u563	The answer is yes, you can. This means that we are really simply giving written answers to the questions that are being asked, and then we are having the conversation about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u564	You will continue your speech. Oh, there's another interruption by Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u565	Still, about the proportionality of 2G. About a year ago, we had a curfew. At the front it was not clear what the effect was going to be and at the back it was also impossible to measure. It could just be that this is also the case with 2G. When will the Minister say: if I have had all these factual questions and have seen everything... When will he make the decision: I will just leave out the 2G, because it is not clear to me? What does that have to do with it? He's not making the decision right now. That could also be done with the data that is now available. But what else has to happen, what should come up to say "I won't do it" or "I will"? So my question is: when is it and when is it not proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u566	This also refers to the question that Mrs Kuik has just asked. In the report the current calculations... The models in the report calculated the impact of 1G, 2G and 3G in the epidemiological situation as we had in November, with the number of infections I mentioned in my introduction and then with the delta variant. It has also been calculated what the impact would be at the moment, with the omikron variant, with many more infections and with a higher R-value. What the report showed in both models used by the researchers is that, particularly in the current situation, the difference between 2G and 3G is very limited. There has just been mentioned, earlier in the debate, a difference of 0.7% in terms of dampening effect. That's very small. Does that also mean that the same effect would be equally small in all future potential epidemiological situations? No. The researchers also indicate that if the situation changes, they advise to look again with the same model in the future. Firstly, there are therefore different situations. Secondly, there will be that debate. And we also need to have a discussion on this in the Council of Ministers. This means, in fact, that I cannot answer the question now. I can only outline the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u567	You will continue your speech. I'll take a look at the time. I don't know how many questions there are left. Perhaps you could make an assessment so we can plan the evening well. There's been a lot of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u568	I'll take a look. I have a number of questions about tests, including one from Mrs Tielen. She asked: is there sufficient test capacity? The answer is yes. The GGDs are also scaling up hard to reach the capacity of 200,000 per day. In addition, they're getting help from the Department of Defense. They are also in consultation with Stichting Open Nederland to make agreements in agreement with my department to temporarily deploy the capacity of Testing for Access to test for complaints. The Stichting Open Nederland has sufficient capacity. Then we bring the total number much higher. That capacity is there. That is a relevant question, because especially if what we are taking into account is that the number of infections goes much further, then we need to keep a close eye on the virus and then we need more capacity. Then there was another question from Mrs Bikker. It was also about the test capacity and the test readiness. At present, the test readiness for complaints is higher than ever before. 45% of people with complaints go to the GGD and another 32% do a self-test on complaints. You know that the willingness to have you tested for complaints in the past was long-term in the order of 50%. This willingness is now considerably higher. That's important. We need that, especially in the current epidemiological situation. Then I'll get to my last part. First of all, a question from Mrs Tielen. She asked if there were enough mouth caps available. There was also a question from Mrs van den Berg about making mouth caps available to low-income people. In addition, there was a question from Mrs Bikker about neighbourhood approach and the spread of mouth-nose masks and self-tests. The answer to that is that there are still insufficient presence at the moment, especially when we look at the type 2 medical or surgical masks. It's rising fast. This also has to do with the recent opinion of the OMT. Shops, drugstores, etc. are working on purchasing these masks. They can buy them both in the Netherlands and on the international market. There are also Dutch manufacturers who make them. If at any time there is no medical oral nose mask of at least type 2, then the advice for a medical oral nose mask type 1 or, for the people who want it, an FFP2 mask applies, but you know all about the lack of comfort of these masks. Then about making mouth caps available to low-income people and about a neighbourhood approach. From the emergency stock managed by the Bureau LCH, medical foot-nose masks have been donated to various organizations. Of these, there are still enough in stock. The LCH Office is currently interviewing, among other things, the food banks, the Poverty Fund and other bodies, such as municipalities and schools, to make them available. This also happens with the municipalities that have indicated their interest in a district-oriented approach. These are currently 30 different municipalities. Then there was a question from Mrs Tielen about how the cabinet looks at views of OMT members in the media. OMT members give independent advice. They are personally in the OMT and are invited on the basis of their expertise and experience. That also means that they are approached by the press and others. The same independence means that the cabinet has no influence and does not want to have any influence on what OMT members say in the media. We do assume that within the OMT there will be a good debate, as has already been the case for the past two years. But we cannot control what they say in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u569	Of course not. I wouldn't want that either. I do not think that is how we look at things like freedom of expression and free thought. Totally. But I can also imagine that, if you sit together about weekly, you will also make some sort of working arrangements with each other. The Minister will recognize and acknowledge that for a lot of people in the Netherlands, at some point, what is the advice and what we should and should not do is not really follow. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u570	The Minister recognizes that. But I cannot, of course, control it in the attempt to make working arrangements either. But I recognize and acknowledge that it can lead to a lot of change from time to time. In an OMT with many experts you get a weighted advice. That is not the same as a unanimous opinion. Then there was a question from Mrs Van den Berg. She said that there is money for aid packages but that there is no money to develop equipment that, for example, allows catering and culture to open up. We agree that it is important to carry out research into such techniques. That's what resources are for. If there are obstacles to funding research, we will discuss it. Then there is a question from Mrs Pouw-Verweij about serology, which we have just referred to. The question was whether I could take serology as a ground test for recovery as quickly as it does with other tests. The point is that serological blood tests measure antibodies in the blood after an infection. Mrs Pouw-Verweij knows all about this. But the correlation between the amount of antibodies and the extent and duration of protection is unclear. So you do have an indication that someone has been in contact with the virus, but the question is what exactly is the level of protection? With omikron, this has become even more complex, because an infection with previous variants apparently does not protect well against a new omikron infection. Before we could use serology in the Netherlands as a proof of recovery, we need more knowledge about it. That is what we are and continue to talk to experts about. At the moment, I do not get a unanimous opinion, but I do not get a broad opinion that this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u571	Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his response. Secondly, I have, of course, been over this with the previous Minister several times. But I'd be happy to do the same with you. There are, of course, a number of examples that we could follow. So they applied it in Switzerland, for example. I understood that Minister De Jonge also had contact with Switzerland about how they did that there and whether we could do that here. Personally, I would suggest that we have contact with Sanquin, for example. Antibodies can also be donated, especially to people in the hospital. I wouldn't mind saying that if your levels are high enough that you can donate, we might also say that they're high enough...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u572	Contact with Sanquin's already gone. That's what I just said. What I need to do for now is to give a very concrete answer to the question of whether we have sufficient scientific basis to now add serological tests in the Netherlands to the whole palette. The answer is not yet. But that question remains. So it's active on the scope. It would be great if you could. But yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u573	And it's also being looked at at international level, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u574	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u575	Yeah, okay. Mr Van Haga's last question. No, no, Mr. Van Haga, we've already jerked off that interruption. That's how honest we are. Mr Van Haga's last question from the Van Haga Group. That is indeed confirmed by a strict jury. You shouldn't look mad at me right now, Mr. Van Haga. You've used your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u576	No, I'm not mad at you at all. So I can't be mad at that at all. No, I'll try to ask two questions in one. First of all, I think that serological test is just a binary test. So is the antigen test, and so is the PCR test. You either have it or you don't. You can't know the degree of protection at all. In that respect, you could just say that we show it and it should go with that recovery certificate. Secondly, I did not entirely answer the question I asked Mr Van Dissel, which I asked Mrs Tielen and which I also asked you. You said: a model is a model; that is why we also have a pack of milk in the store. But that wasn't the point at all. Of course you have a model. Yeah, I get that. We've modeled enough. It's about garbage in garbage out. Back then I had a nice chat with Hugo de Jonge, where he accused me of spreading fake news. Now we know that there isn't a proper record. I hope that registration goes better on several points. I think it's medically relevant if someone's already been through the infection. Maybe the one is vaccinated or not vaccinated and then the one comes on the ic. Secondly, are you lying there with covid or by covid? That registration should be improved. It's my last interruption, so I'm gonna have to elaborate a little bit on this, with apologies to the chairman. I would like to be given a commitment to make a motion in any case in order to improve that registration. I do not think it is possible for this registration to take place after two years. We put shit in the model. It could be a beautiful model, I'll give you that. But if we put shit in the model, shit's gonna come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u577	Mr Van Haga actually asks me two questions in one question. I will answer both questions. Serology is unfortunately not a binary test. It is about whether a serology, i.e. by demonstrating a certain level of antibodies, can also prediction about the degree of protection. I would point out that experts have so far said that we cannot do so, and we cannot give you a clear opinion on this. That remains the question. I was just talking about the international input and then I come back to the answer just now. But it's not a binary test. That's what makes it difficult. The second question was about registration, and about "with covid" and "by covid." This is particularly true of patients in hospitals. The Dutch hospitals have managed this registration, thanks to a lot of effort, almost from the start of the entire covid pandemic. Meanwhile, they can ensure that seven days a week every day at 10 p.m. for each region is known the number of patients with covid at the clinic and on the ic. And also the number of new patients at the clinics and the ic's is known for every region. And at 11:00 p.m., it'll be known to the whole country. That happens every day, and it actually happens automatically in all regions in the meantime. So we could do that so many times a day. We can now, so to speak, see how busy it is with the emergency services of an individual hospital. Mind you, it doesn't concern the patient data, but only the numbers. So that registration is absolutely in order. But Mr Van Haga asks: how many patients with covid and how many patients through covid? I can tell him: for a nurse who has to work for that patient, that is completely irrelevant. That's completely irrelevant to that nurse. Because the question for the nurse is: is the patient infected, and with that also contagious, or not? Do you want me to take care of that patient in the whole suit? In the meantime, you have seen the images very often: an apron, a mouth cap, gloves, glasses, etc. Or can the nurse take care of the patient the way he or she always does? In the past period, the majority of patients who became open with covid, have been included primarily with covid without other underlying conditions. But then they got these underlying conditions. Right now, there's a lot of covid. I have already said that 1 in 75 Dutch people are positive. Then you have to assume 1 in 75 people who come to an emergency room, apart from an age correction. Then there are also people who come for a broken leg, the example of earlier this afternoon, but who at the same time have air complaints, are tested and found to have covid. They are treated for a broken leg, but they also come into isolation and that's why they are counted, because they come into an isolation ward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u578	There is another interruption by Mrs Van der Plas of BBB. I'm just gonna take a look at the minister. Mr Van Haga went into conclave with his colleague for a moment, because he was not satisfied with the practicality of the answer. Perhaps you could make another attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u579	I can make the answer very concrete. Let's introduce ourselves to a nurse who's getting a patient in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u580	Perhaps you should put your question in a very specific way, but also a little shorter. That really helps to respond to the rulers. Your specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u581	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't care about the nurse. Of course, he treats a covid patient like a covid patient, whether he comes in in a car accident or not. That wasn't my question. The point is that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u582	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u583	If it contaminates those data, it affects the vaccination rate, how you treat them. And then it ends up with the Prime Minister and he gets contaminated data from a model where contaminated data goes in, and he makes another decision. Shouldn't we just do the registration so we can get a different risk weighting?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u584	The answer is no. Those patients are therefore in an isolation unit using the capacity available for covid patients, which is used in an isolation unit. There they are also registered and that is the primary registration of how much of that kind of capacity you need. At a time when a patient doesn't have a covid and comes somewhere else entirely, it's registered in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u585	Yes. It's an answer to the question. Mrs Van der Plas of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u586	I just wanted to come back to the binary of the test. The minister says the test isn't binary. I think that means as much as: there is no unambiguous result, that it must be positive or negative. But I also understand that you can change that by putting a threshold in it. Then you just indicate: this threshold must be minimal in order for it to be uniform, or a good result. It's possible, isn't it? You can just set a threshold in there, can't you? And with that, it's binary. That's just a matter of wanting, not that it can't. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u587	I would like to thank Mrs van der Plas for this clarification. You're absolutely right. You can put a threshold in there. The question is, also to the experts, where this threshold should lie. They're not getting out of there. Of course, it's about the protective effect. It is unclear where the threshold should be. And with that there is also no answer to be given about the use of the serological test. It can indeed be made binary, only: where should you put it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u588	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u589	Yeah, okay. Well, let's get that straight. The first answer was that it can't be, because it's not binary. No, it can be, because it can be made binary by that threshold. But there is no consensus on where to put that threshold. But it's possible. My question then is why it should not be possible, in the explanation you have just given. Well, then there's no clarity about that. What does it have to do to get it done? Apparently, tests are made binary, separate from covid. Then why can't we do that here? Well, that doesn't make any sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u590	For serology, as for many tests in biology and healthcare, they are not binary, but they are binary. That sounds a little vague. Mr. Van Haga just referred to PCR, which is not binary. An PCR gives a certain value with a certain positivity over a number of cycles. I'm not going into the technical details, but that's not a binary test. Just, you make a definition: when do we really consider this to be positive? That goes for a lot of tests. Well, serology can do that, but then you have to have a scientific basis. That doesn't necessarily have to be in a consensus. It's a figure between 0 and 1,000, so to speak. Should we put it at 0 or should we put it at 10 or at 100 or at 500? That is not clear at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u591	If I'm being completely honest, I have to say it's starting to look a bit like a technical briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u592	Yeah, I'm sorry, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u593	As interesting as it may be, people want a lot of knowledge of you if there is so much need for really detailed factual information, I suggest that we include this in our plan to go deeper into the depths during, for example, a technical briefing. I get it, you know, because you just know a lot about this subject. But I would like to ask the Members that. There are also a lot of people who are looking at the debate and perhaps interested in the more general things, and sometimes in detailed things; let me not put everyone on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u594	I would like to return to the discussion the Minister had with Mr Van Haga, because I think there are two things going on. I don't think anyone would deny that someone who has covid and is therefore in isolation in the hospital is a corona patient, even if he comes in with a broken leg, a broken pelvis or whatever. I think it's about the reason for the recording. The person with the broken leg must be treated like a corona patient, but if he does not have corona to such an extent that he should have been entitled to a hospital bed, then we do not have to take that person into the group of new hospitalizations by corona. I think that's what it's about, the reason for recording. Based on the number of corona patients that are now grouped together, we think: okay, so much new growth is from the corona angle. So we have to take that into account. Whether that should be called "corona patient" or not, let's leave that in the middle. Could a distinction be made in this respect? I think that's what Mr Van Haga is all about. At least I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u595	Sure. I understand very well what the distinction is about, but that actually calls for a further registration. Well, we know the subject of registration burden and pressure on care very extensively. This calls for another registration. Again, without getting into any discussion and without making it too technical: we get into a huge semantics very quickly. I will not tire you now and here with the examples, but it is extremely difficult to tell each individual patient: is this because of corona, is this with corona or is it somewhere in between? I just really want to stay away from that. I think it is really unwise to set up a further registration there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u596	Finally, Mrs Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u597	Also knowing that in principle we register a reason of admission in hospitals in all patients? If someone enters the ER or elsewhere, we just write down the reason for recording, the reason for referral or the reason for registration? We have an overview of that, don't we? I think that's what it's about: does someone come in because of covid or not? That's what the discussion is about. Looks to me like we're recording that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u598	Mr President, you are asking me two things. I have to answer the question and you want me to stay away from all the technical stuff. I'm sorry, but if I have to answer this, we're gonna go into technology even more. I would like to discuss and explain this separately once. For now, let the following be the promise. I get it. I'd really like to stay away from even more registration burden for hospitals around the whole corona file right now. That's really extensive. If this situation changes, I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u599	Thank you. Actually, I'm going to wrap this up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u600	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u601	Yes. That's about to happen, but I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Gündoğan. She had another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u602	Yeah, I have an interruption, and it's not about the technique. I think there is a hunger for us all to do this openly, because in the last two years there have been plenty of opinions in the talk shows, but not enough facts. I therefore think that perhaps we should have a somewhat longer technical briefing more often. These kinds of questions are well founded. I understand them very well, too. There may be all kinds of questions in the grassroots community about this or there are uncertainties. It is therefore a good thing that we dare to give those answers and those claritys together, so that there can be less noise and less space for disinformation. So observing from my place, I thought: dear, what a nice debate it is now after that very dashing few hours of a while ago. I think this is how we should do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u603	And indeed a good proposal, to have a more extensive technical briefing. Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u604	I've got another one, and I can do it in a minute, and then a little bit more. I fully endorse that. We can also ensure, and we will do so together with you, that the right possibilities are offered in that technical briefing. Some of these kinds of questions are, of course, much more in place there, also to continue in depth, in that technical briefing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u605	Yes. And it's very nice, by the way, the knowledge that's being exchanged. So nothing to the detriment of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u606	I'm trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u607	I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u608	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Before I put an interruption to it: was Mr Kuiper ready, or was there another block? I understood that last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u609	Then we'll wait for the Minister until he's finished the job. The Minister has asked for it to be completed now, so in that sense I hope that we can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u610	Yes. I have at least one question here from Mr Wassenberg, which concerns the pressure from Agriculture and Foreign Trade, and the Bekedam report. In a progress report on zoonoses policy, which you received at the end of last year from the ministers of LNV and VWS, the cabinet presented a national action plan of zoonoses, which we want to shape in cooperation with all kinds of stakeholders. This will be based on the various pillars of what, as you know, is called One Health: animal health, public health and environment. In this respect, it will entail strengthening the zoonoses policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u611	I will look at Mr Wassenberg and see if he has answered his question. And then I go to Mrs Van den Berg, and then Mr Van Meijeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u612	Mr. Chairman. It's all a bit late, but this is very topical right now. I also asked the Minister to put his fist on the table in order to implement these recommendations. I spoke earlier about those birds that literally fall dead from the sky in Maastricht. Today we have been in contact with Animal Ambulance South Limburg. They say we've found 59 dead foxes and 7 dead martens in the last few weeks, pointy. They're not eaten or anything; we think they have bird flu. We've called the NVWA more than 30 times for all those reports. Cormorants and gulls were also found there. And all 30 times, the NVWA said, "Get rid of them for destruction, we're not gonna investigate them." Deloitte said a year and a half ago: the NVWA does not belong to two thirds of the tasks. I find it very worrying, because these could probably be victims of avian flu. Is the Minister willing to contact the NVWA to say: at the moment that carcasses are found that you might think is avian flu... And again, and that's what I just said: if that bird flu goes around in foxes and in martens, then the step to man is very small. So it's getting closer. Is the Minister prepared to ask the NVWA to intervene here, and at least check this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u613	You must allow me, in the second week that I am in office, not to know all the details of this and I would like to be informed about this subject first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u614	I get that. I'm also willing to share my information with the Minister. Then I will ask him if, for example, he will write a letter about this in the course of next week, realizing that I will not receive an answer today. But then I will leave it at that. I share my information, and I hope that the Minister will be able to respond quickly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u615	The Minister now. I'll let the Minister respond to that, because you're making a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u616	Sure, I'd like to do that. But I just can't answer that right now; I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u617	No, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u618	And then I had another question, which is about the implementation of the Bekedam report. I've got it right here. The Minister knows it. He may not have read it from a to z, but Bekedam writes, among other things, when it comes to bird flu that it is very unwise to allow new businesses in wetlands, and also not to allow expansions. In the long run, even Bekedam says, you just shouldn't have any companies there. All this will not be settled overnight, but I would ask the Minister: is he also prepared to use his perseverance force, which has been given to him by the Chamber as Minister of VWS, to eventually see if you can phase out those companies, and at least prevent them from expanding in the short term? Because Bekedam says: very unwise to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u619	As I said, I would very much like to be informed about this, but I simply cannot give an answer on the substance. You'll have to excuse me for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u620	I see that Mr Wassenberg understands that, and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u621	Mr. Chairman. I have one more interruption for this Minister and one for the Minister of Economic Affairs. Here's what I'm gonna do. Thank you for the answer with regard to migrant workers. I conclude that there are some GGDs that are less benevolent and less flexible. But I had also asked a question about the hamsters in Hong Kong. I asked that question from a similar perspective to Mr Wassenberg's. At the beginning of the corona crisis, we had to deal with minks that turned out to be infected. That was picked up at the time. So I was wondering whether the virus has jumped over again or whether specific measures still need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u622	One moment. While I'm browsing, I can tell you what the situation was here. It is true that hamsters have been transported from the Netherlands to Hong Kong. At some point, when they arrived there, some of the hamster carers were found to have covid. The hamsters have been tested and the staff have been tested. They all carried one covid tribe, one corona tribe, with them. Meanwhile, the RIVM is looking at exactly what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u623	Many Dutch people had no faith in this Minister of Health before he started his duties, for example because he has blindly supported cabinet policy over the past two years and has also made some dubious statements. I would like to mention one of these. The Netherlands suffered a curfew for months last year. The day after that curfew was abolished, Mr Kuipers indicated that it had had no effect at all. My question is: why did Mr Kuipers say only one day after that curfew was abolished that it did not have any effect rather than much earlier, so that we did not have to go under that measure for so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u624	I'd like to point out that today it's Minister Kuipers. Questions about other roles I think that perhaps the Minister himself will be able to say so, but I hope you will understand that he is now the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u625	Thank you for this question. Of course I want to answer that. Then it'll help if I'm quoted correctly. I appreciate that now, and I appreciate that in the future. I have said that, and you know that, after the curfew, it had no demonstrable effect on the number of hospitalisations in the Netherlands. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u626	Let me get the quote. Mr Kuipers said that, two months after the curfew was introduced, he saw that it had not led to a kink in the curve of hospitalizations in any region, which the then Minister had said he wanted to get rid of curfew as quickly as possible, because it was a restriction of freedom. Mr Kuipers, not a minister at the time, said that he shared these figures with the Ministry, but that they did nothing with them and that the curfew was renewed. Finally, he said that the curfew had no effect. I quote from the Volkskrant of 12 August 2021, in which Mr Kuipers looks back on his statement at Beau. That means that Mr Kuipers knew a month before the curfew was abolished that it had no effect. Why didn't Mr Kuipers say so at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u627	I thank Mr Van Meijeren for confirming what I said and what I said earlier. What I have said is that the curfew had no demonstrable effect on hospitalisations in the Netherlands. Period. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u628	And we sent them on hospital admissions. He did have other effects: suicide rates increased, there was an increase in domestic violence, there was an increase in obesity and a decrease in social contacts. Of course, the curfew has had a lot of effect: negative health effects and therefore no effect on the curve it was all about. The original reason for introducing the curfew was to break that curve. That goal was pointless, and then Mr Kuipers "Kuipers," now "Minister," found out two months after the curfew was introduced. He didn't ring the bell until the day after he was abolished. Why did he keep his mouth shut for a month, when he was chatting about corona policy every week on numerous television programmes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u629	Yes, what else should I add to this other than what I said? My role in that previous situation was to ensure sufficient care capacity, to spread patients and to scale them up when needed. And so also monitor the impact in different regions. At one point, I concluded that it was at that time the British variant of "s' that there was no difference between regions where the British variant was common and regions where that variant was rare and where there was no overall impact of curfew. If you turn the clock back any further and you ask if Kuipers was in favour of curfew and if he was happy with its introduction, then I say that he was. However, the curfew has not had an impact on the number of hospitalizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u630	That's right. At the risk of repeating, but I can't get an answer to the core question. Why did Mr Kuipers when he found out that the curfew had no effect on hospital admissions? The curfew was intended for that very purpose and therefore did not serve to inform the ministers about it, as he indicated in the Volkskrant of 12 August last year, but did not make that public? Why didn't Mr Kuipers say at the time: this measure doesn't make any sense? Why did he leave the Netherlands locked up in the evenings unnecessarily for a month?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u631	As has been pointed out very often here, there has just been a reference to the fact that there have been 40 corona debates. The corona policy of the previous cabinet has, and still has, a number of different objectives: ensuring accessibility of care, reducing the number of infections, keeping an eye on the virus and other effects. My previous role was very sec focused on hospital capacity. One piece of the total. I wasn't part of the cabinet in my previous role. I didn't make the policy. It was not for me to say anything about policy either. I have said that many times in all kinds of talk shows and on other occasions. I wasn't about that. I wasn't a member of the OMT. Just monitoring the hospitals was my role. At the end of April last year we were at a peak of hospital occupation and at that time we were chosen to relax the curfew. The question then was how the care looked at that. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u632	Then a fact remains that the curfew was introduced to reduce the pressure on hospitals. That was the argument of the Minister of Health, your predecessor. That was the main rule of curfew. After two months, Mr Kuipers found that this measure had no effect in any region. He informed the Ministry and said, "I'm just gonna grab my magazine with the literal quote back to "They didn't do anything with it." The curfew was simply extended. Those are the words of Mr Kuipers. When Mr Kuipers noticed that the Ministry did nothing with his figures, he had that same evening at one of the many talk programs, where he was apparently to talk about things other than policy, although I never heard him about his holiday home on Terschelling, could inform the Netherlands about this. Why didn't you publicly inform the Netherlands that that curfew had no effect at all on hospital admissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u633	I didn't hear a new question. We're gonna finish your part now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u634	I have one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u635	You can keep talking, Mr Van Meijeren, but you have now asked the same question four times and I cannot imagine the Minister giving another answer. You're gonna talk louder and louder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u636	I didn't get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u637	No, no, no. You asked the same question four times. It's not an interrogation. The directors are a guest of ours, and it's starting to look a little like an interrogation. We're not gonna do that. The Minister has one more question to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u638	I would like to make a final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u639	You'll have a second chance later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u640	How many more questions can I ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u641	You have one question left. Would you like to ask your question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u642	At least I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u643	Wait, your microphone isn't on. I'll give you a chance to make your last interruption, if it's at least another question. Yeah? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u644	Mr President, thank you for letting me finish my last interruption. I can only conclude that the Minister refuses to answer a question I have asked four times...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u645	I'm so sorry about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u646	...wittingly and knowingly...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u647	Mr. Van Meijeren, it's done now. Well, well, well. Oh, boy. Mr. Van Meijeren, please, not in the microphone. Minister, you had one more question to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u648	There is one point I have to come back to, and I shall look at Mrs Bikker's report on 'get a vaccine give a vaccine'. I agree with the importance of very global access to vaccines. That is very important. I was reminded during the break that I do need to make some nuance with regard to not 2021, but the sure guarantee that it will definitely succeed in 2022. I will work very hard to do that. I know that we do so through the EU, where a commitment has been made, and that we will also contribute from the Netherlands. I will give further information on the exact number by letter a little later in the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u649	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. Take it easy, Mrs. Pouw-Verweij.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u650	Maybe I missed it, but I asked about the mental crisis among young people. Have you answered that question yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u651	The Minister said something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u652	Then it's me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u653	Then I would like to thank the Minister very much. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u654	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to begin, like my colleagues, with the fact that I agree with Mrs Gündoğan's words. It seems a long time ago that she spoke this afternoon. They were very wise words, namely that we really need to discuss things differently. Because words matter. We may, of course, disagree on content, but let the conversation go on without falling into our rightful place and baffling anyone who does not agree with it. Mrs Gündoğan said that very nicely. I am happy to take this with me, also from my role in this debate, but also in other places where I will meet Mrs Gündoğan and her colleagues. I thank her for that lovely start. Mrs. Paulusma had a few questions for me. I have a brief introduction, in which I hope to give some context, and then I'll go into her questions. I would like to start by saying that I fully understand the difficult position that entrepreneurs and so many other people are in right now. No one here wants the pubs and the restaurants closed. No one here wants the museums and theaters closed. And no one here, for example, wants the league competitions without an audience. There are many more examples. As the contributions of my colleagues, the Prime Minister and the Minister of the United States of America show, we are not taking these measures for nothing. I'm afraid it's necessary at the moment. We must therefore also comply with and enforce these measures. Last week, before and after the decision-making process, we saw many actions and social unrest of entrepreneurs from sectors that are not yet open. Over the past week, I've had several conversations with the mayors at the Security Council. And over the next few days, I'll be talking to them again. I have already sent them two letters, of which I have also sent your Chamber a copy. The most important agreement is that we continue to apply the agreements that we already have almost the entire coronapandemic. That starts with good compliance by all of us: you and I stick to the agreements, to the 1.5 metres and list all the measures. Then good control, for example from the entrepreneurs and associations. And the enforcement as the final piece. With the mayors we also talked about how to deal with the different forms of protest that we have seen this week passing left and right. With the Security Council, I share the view that there must be a clear line when it comes to protests of this kind. This line is that in various actions in the exercise of the right of demonstration, the demonstration character, and hence the collective expression, must be at the centre of and at the forefront of action. That's the most important thing when we look at the past few days. It must not therefore lead to the opening up of the sectors which are closed. In that case, there is a violation of the corona measures and the enforcement arrangements apply, as I agreed with the mayors earlier. Enforcement focuses on obvious, systematic and/or deliberate violation. In that case, the mayor will in principle first be warned. If it has to be applied then administrative coercion will be applied and then fined. Finally, locations can also be closed. The method of enforcement in concrete situations and the means to be used are determined by the local triangles. It's over. From the cabinet, we understand that this can be a difficult consideration in certain cases and that, of course, tailor-made work is needed. Then I come to Mrs Paulusma's two specific questions. She said to me: I heard you say firm words about the culture sector, but react more mildly to other moments. She asked what the stakes are for the coming period. What happened there, I heard in her tone. I would like to repeat that I said the same thing at both times. Those who listened to the whole story last week and afterwards know that I said that it is of the utmost importance that we comply with the measures, that there is control and that enforcement is the final word. Afterlife is the most important thing. That's what we agreed two years ago, when all this started, with each other. Because we do not have the corona measures because we want to fine shopkeepers or the cultural sector. We have them to control and control the virus. We can only do that if we stick to the agreements. With the mayors I talked about how to deal with maintaining the different forms of protest we saw this week. The line for now and for the future is that various actions focus on the exercise of the right of demonstration and that it does not lead to a factual opening. I think the most important thing is that we hold it together. Those are the three steps: compliance, control, enforcement. Mrs Paulusma still had a very relevant question. I was also very pleased with her second question. She asked: what can we do now to support the enforcers? What are you doing about it? I was very pleased that we could consider this after such a long day when we are discussing the measures. I think it is good to name again that we have seen how difficult enforcement is: cops and the boas are getting so much misery and aggression over them. They are there for our safety and our health. I think we need to be very committed to preventing them from going through that kind of shit. The most important thing we can do is to follow the rules. What we, as a cabinet, can do is to focus on clear, clear rules. So I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to underline that once again. Clear rules make it easier to support them and thus also to comply with them. The second step is that entrepreneurs and sectors should self-regulation as much as possible. This is what we make arrangements from the cabinet with the industries concerned. You're about to hear from my colleague who's very busy with that. This also reflects the efforts made by the vast majority of entrepreneurs to comply with the rules. With this step we relieve the burden of enforcement, which is and remains the final piece. We are talking about enforcement in the Security Council in order to draw as much as possible together and ultimately leave responsibility to the triangles, where they belong. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u655	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u656	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I thought it very nice that you started with the remark: words matter. That is true here in this house, but that is also true for the words that we say to the outside world. I interpreted it in such a way that there was actually a difference between day and night in gentleness and hardness in the words that the minister has spoken towards the hospitality and/or culture. I thought there was a big difference. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister says that we have a common line and a common understanding, but those words matter. The same applies to the enforcers on the street. I am also very pleased that you answered the question as to what we are doing to support the boas. We have released 45 million over the last period to actually do so. I'm curious how you look back on that. And I wonder if you are thinking about that kind of funding for the coming period when it comes to support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u657	Yes. I think it is very important to continue to pay attention to this. When people go out every day to protect us and to keep us safe and healthy, it is very good that we consider this every time, even in a corona debate. A great deal of resources has indeed been made available. Funds have also been made available in the event of a wider use of the corona tickets. So how can we help the municipalities to get the enforcers to do their job? As a cabinet, we have made 69 million available for this. So we continue to pay attention to that. I think it is important that we pay attention to this from the resources and from the content, but also from the normative nature, which is also present in this debate, where you constantly state clearly: how do you deal with each other and how do you not deal with each other? I think our boas and our agents could use that very much from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u658	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security. But Mrs. Agema wants to post another interruption. One short question, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u659	I would like another reaction to the criminals and the rioters who use a mouth cap to undermine the detection. That's what they do in the outdoors. Thieves do that, rioters do that. It seems to me to be a good idea to stop this, because it really makes and undermines the search.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u660	I think this is an interesting and good question from Mrs Agema. If she'll allow me, I'd like to come back to it later. Then I can find out whether we already have something explicitly for that, or whether I can work on it in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u661	All right. Then I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security. I give the floor to the new Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. Once again, I say to her welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Chamber for the warm welcome. I'm really looking forward to working together. I must say that I am impressed by your stamina, the quality of the debate and the effort made to conduct the conversation properly. And also that we are going to continue until the right answer is given. I have to say that that also inspires, because it's about important things. As my colleagues have said, we are on our way for more than a week. Over the past week, I have already been able to get to know various sectors. That went right into the depths, because there's a lot going on. I must say that I have become extremely motivated by the way in which all sectors are trying to help us in all possible ways and try to find the right solutions to have a society that is open again and not close to measures. Perhaps the most important thing is that everything shows that entrepreneurs simply want to do business. They just want to work and they want to do something. Then we can come up with all kinds of support packages that are certainly appreciated.... but that never takes away the pain of not being able to work, because working is more than just making money. That's just a really good day with each other and doing what you're for on earth and what you just really like to do. We have indeed set up a comprehensive support package. To a very large extent this is enough, but unfortunately there are also a number of entrepreneurs who do not have enough. That's what we're paying attention to. I will go into some of the questions that have to do with that in a moment. It is also important that we are at some sort of breaking point, as colleagues have pointed out. We are moving towards a new phase, and that calls for us to look at how we deal with the support package for the future. We want to come up with a long-term strategy for this support package at the end of this quarter. This also concerns the debt position of entrepreneurs. That's a complicated subject, but we shouldn't run away from it. At the moment when we put too much burdens on people, they do not have a new perspective for the future, which is very important for everyone. I will talk to my colleagues in Social Affairs and Finance about this, and I will come back to you with a longer-term proposal. I'm gonna go check on the questions. I walk them down the way I neatly got them in my folder. Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA indicated that there are a number of entrepreneurs who cannot meet the NOW and TVL. As I said, that package is not enough for everyone. Then what we have done with the closure of the retail trade just before Christmas. That was a terrible veining, as has been pointed out a number of times. Fortunately, since last Saturday, the retail trade has been open again, albeit with certain limitations. So you can't generate that amount of revenue yet, but there's air again. As you may know, for the TVL in the fourth quarter, we reduced the turnover loss threshold to 20% in order to give better access to the aid. That threshold has been exceptionally reduced. Of course, that had to do with the abrupt lockdown just before Christmas. That was, to that extent, an important compensation. However, it is also a compensation for losses that are seasonal. We will restore that aid package this quarter, but then it will go back to 30%. This 20% also applies to the NOW. Mrs van den Berg also asked about the start-up scheme and the approach to distressing cases. There's a lot going on. I have spoken to the RVO over the past week and all the people involved in the execution. My first impression is that there is a tremendous amount of work being done to get people under the arrangements. People even get calls from the invitation: you filled this out like this, but shouldn't you have to fill it out differently? I was quite impressed by that myself. I also know that you do not understand everything, because there are just situations that are not covered by the regulations. For example, people who are pregnant, people who have a disease or a remodeling come out in a period that should be your reference for which your turnover loss is based. A second reference quarter has been added, but that is not enough in all cases. We'll take a closer look at that. I assure you that in February we will send a letter on how we deal with these distressing cases. At all these levels it is now inventoried where exactly the pain is and how it can be solved and dealt with. I know that we may not be able to take everything away, but I would like to do my utmost to get as many people under the arrangements as possible and, if not, to see if there are any other options.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u663	Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA and then Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u664	Thank you to the Minister for these answers. I therefore hope that the Minister will talk to the industry organisations, because we are getting emails from companies saying that it is actually a dead sparrow. This is a nice arrangement, but because of the thresholds it is no good to them, even though they have been closed for weeks. This is not just a shopping area, but in particular the catering companies that are still closed. I would be pleased if the Minister would undertake to discuss this further with industry organisations at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u665	I am talking to the trade associations about this. I'll be sure to pursue that. They are also very much helping to clarify the cases. We need these examples very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u666	Thank you to the Minister for these warm words, especially towards entrepreneurs who are having a hard time. Now something came up to me that I thought was still in my throat. We have branches in the Netherlands. Those are companies with a lot of shops in all the shopping streets. They've come a long way so far. There's a lot of stuff under there; I'm not gonna stir that up right now. But my question is whether the Minister would also like to extend the hand she puts out to the Chamber to those branches. I think they are roughly 80 entrepreneurs in the Netherlands. I am not going to ask all kinds of questions about the content, but my question is: would the Minister like to go round the table with that group again to see what else could be done there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u667	I'm aware of the problems there. We can now make a whole talk about the regulations and why they are, but that also has to do with legislation and with European rules. But I'd like to talk to them. I think this is good for the moment, and I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u668	I do not expect all the answers to be available, but I would like to draw particular attention to the cultural sector. Because of a accumulation of factors, that sector feels right to be behind everything. They also feel inadequate because much... I mentioned the example of the PAX cabinets versus the Picasso. The Prime Minister has indicated why that consideration has been made. I hope that will take a different turn next week. But my question is this. Manyzzp'ers, broad, in all sectors, are struggling, because they are often not eligible for aid schemes. The same applies to the cultural sector. They are already being forced to repay cultural loans, for example, when there is actually no perspective yet. Could specific attention be paid to this, especially since the culture sector needs longer to start up completely again than, for example, an IKEA? Perhaps a further letter could deal with how we deal with this group that now seems forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u669	It is quite right that this should be pointed out. I know that my colleague, the Secretary of State for Culture and Media, intends to send a letter to the Chamber at the end of January. In that letter it will see all the possibilities and proposals it makes, and then discuss them with you. That was also Mrs Paulusma's question, if I had understood correctly. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u670	Yes, Mrs Paulusma also had a question about culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u671	So again, also in the direction of Mrs Paulusma: there will be a letter from the Secretary of State for Culture and Media with the answer to your question what is being done to help these people. Mr. Chairman. I think I would have stayed with the questions surrounding the starters. That is something that has been called attention to. A proposal is being made for this too, because it is a bit unfortunate for some who are not covered by the regulation. Or, well, "some," they're pretty much numbers. I expect the Chamber there... Well, at the end of January may be a bit optimistic, but I expect to report to the Chamber at least early February. I think I would have had Mr. Stoffer's question about the retail too. Then we come to Mrs Simons' question. It was about the economy. I indicated in the beginning that economy is much more than just money. It's about meaning people, it's about doing something meaningful in the day. The importance of this is great. At the beginning of the corona crisis we have been very busy with health and capacity, but as has just been discussed: we need a different way of looking to the future. You asked, "How do you deal with those interests?" My role in this is to take into account the interests of the different sectors and the considerations that we make in the discussions and, above all, to look at the way in which space can be properly created in these different sectors. I am referring, for example, to the contact professions, the catering industry and the shops, but also to the events and the culture that my colleague is talking about. Then we look at the length of the contacts that people have there, at the movements, but also at the number of contact moments. But you can assume from me that we are going to make sure that we go much more towards 'open under certain conditions', in conjunction with these sectors, based on their proposals. Very creative proposals are being made. Then we'll see what's possible in the next period, if justified. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u672	I would like to give the floor to Mrs Paulusma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u673	Thank you for the answer and for the letter to come. I did have one more question. In my opinion, culture is very close to our hearts in this Chamber. I heard the Prime Minister say something legal about why a museum isn't a store. Then I thought maybe we could think together about how a museum is going to be a store. Well, I don't mean it's gonna be a store, but it's the same size and you can look at things even safer. So I was a little looking. Is there a solution to the legal issue why a museum cannot be a shop and/or vice versa?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u674	I think I'm being overasked now when I let go of my legal baggage on the definition of shops, but I think it's a very interesting question. I agree with you. I think the most important thing is to try to create as much equality as possible with each other and to look at the actual behavior of people in situations. I have always understood that that is decisive. I have also noticed in the discussion in the Cabinet that this is a factor. You say that the importance of the cultural sector lives very much in this Chamber. That's how I've experienced the deliberations. So that's what we're gonna work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u675	Mr Stoffer, SGP, for one final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u676	Maybe a tip: every museum has almost a museum shop. So maybe that's how it works, but that's by the way. My question is another one. The Minister said: I answered Mr Stoffer's question about retail. The question I asked by way of interruption came spontaneously to my mind in response to the warm words. The question I had asked was to discuss the long-term perspective with municipalities. I'm guessing the answer is there. I see the answer is coming, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u677	I have a great package and he's in it. I'm just gonna grab it out. It is true, because it has to do with the Retail Agenda with which we are working with all parties to ensure that we get that vibrant inner city back. The coalition agreement also states that we attach great importance to a good mix of all the amenities in the city centre. So that's what we're going to do. I'm going to have that conversation with all the stakeholders and all those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u678	So also with municipalities? That was my specific question, because the call from the UNG came to us by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u679	Yes, I think it is about the municipalities, the provinces, the interbranch organisations and the knowledge institutions together. We are looking at how we can continue to develop the inner cities well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u680	Thank you. Mrs Gündoğan, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u681	But let's talk about the cultural sector. I think there's a couple of things going on here. On the one hand, there is the feeling that it has always been seen last in the last two years. Unless I am mistaken, the people in the cultural sector do not now have anything like a Tozo, which makes them feel completely financially in the cold. So it would be very nice if there could be some compensation for that, because those people are really two years with their heads just above the water or just not. It's hard for them and the sector. Some dedain has been spoken to, like: there is a DVD, so put it on. They should finally be taken seriously, because it is also 7% of our GNP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u682	Yes, that's correct. We have to be careful with that kind of numbers. I will also discuss this with my colleague, the Secretary of State, to see if she can include the answer in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u683	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the cabinet side, for which we are grateful. I suggest that we start immediately with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Tielen van de VVD, if she feels like it. Go ahead, Mrs. Tielen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u684	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to the directors in box K. I congratulate two people on their first appearance in this Chamber. I hear someone asking where the flowers are. Yeah, they're coming virtually. Lots of luck and especially thanks for the answers in the first term. I saw on the draft schedule that another corona debate is scheduled for next week. That makes sense, with the cycle we agreed on. But I wonder whether it is necessary and sensible for me to put it to my colleagues in the Chamber every week. I do not have an answer to that myself. But I think it would be a good idea to think about that. We've heard a lot. I think everyone is looking at the figures with some expectation and hope. But everyone is also looking at the combination that the cabinet is going to make in the weighing between on the one hand those contagion and hospital rates and on the other hand the packages with which everyone is already ready to open. So we're curious. But I also have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Corona policy has so far been explicitly aimed at keeping 1. care acceptable taxable, 2. protecting the vulnerable and 3. keeping an eye on the virus;]] [[Whereas it reduces the side effects of corona policy and makes the Dutch, including entrepreneurs and young people, more vulnerable;]] [[Whereas corona policy should increasingly focus on a resilient society in which we learn to live with the virus;]] [[calls on the Government to broaden the objectives of the Corona policy in such a way as to ensure that the policy remains focused on society as a whole, and to adapt the decision-making structure accordingly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Tielen, Mr Bikker, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Paulusma.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1719]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u685	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the rulers for the answers we have received. Thank you for looking at the corona access card and the booster as well as the recovery certificate. Thank you also for the commitments just on my culture questions and for the fantastic suggestion by Mr Stoffer about the museum and the museum shop. I hadn't thought of that. So thank you for that. I would like to make two motions on the long term, because I believe that we should have a broad debate in society. And I have two more questions. In the Netherlands you have to wait three months after an infection before you can get your booster. In Belgium this is only two weeks. In England it's four weeks. Can this deadline also be reduced to, for example, two weeks, as in Belgium? We believe that this can give a huge boost to the number of boosts that people are going to take. My second question is about pharmacists. I understand you're talking to pharmacists about how they can help with vaccination. I would very much like an update in the next letter on the power of pharmacists to prick themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u686	Thank you very much, Mrs Paulusma. Then I give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u687	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VWS Minister spoke in the press conference about a new phase of the epidemic that has begun. I haven't seen much of that. I would ask the Minister to start this new policy. For example, we see that, with the huge number of infections of omikron and the still ending of the hospital infections, that correlation is gone that was first between hospital infections and the predictive factor for hospitalisations. You have to start wondering why, for example, you still have a central control of that test policy. We're about to go to 700,000 or 800,000 positive tests a week. How useful is it, then, to regulate all this centrally? I'm gonna give everyone a chance to test. But to conclude all things from that, at some point in an endemic phase of course all is not so very useful anymore. In addition, there is the duty of the mouth cap, so the duty to wear mouth caps in classrooms. That really freaked me out. That is why I have tabled a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to take the decision to impose a protective cap in the MBO and h.o. to withdraw and deploy on the seat the right ventilation and a healthy indoor environment in educational establishments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1720]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u688	I believe that, at this stage of the pandemic, pupils, people in vocational training and students cannot be saddled with wearing a mask on the seat all day long. I can't reach that with my hat; it almost makes me cry. I think this is really a bridge too far and that this really needs to get out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u689	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u690	Mr President, thank you for the answers. I'm gonna talk fast, 'cause I want to file three short motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas special measuring equipment is under development which can demonstrate the presence of infectious virus, but that this is encountering financial difficulties;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in consultation with interested parties, whether and, if so, how these financial difficulties can be resolved and to inform the Court by March 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1721]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u691	Third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that culture is of great importance for healthy mental development and therefore for health;]] [[invites the Cabinet to examine the conditions under which art and cultural display in the context of education such as visiting museums can be restored as soon as possible, and to examine how to remain open in the event of any increase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Werner.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1723]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u692	I have a few seconds left, so I would once again like to thank the rulers very much for all the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u693	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u694	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a whole battery of motions in mind, about stopping market forces in care and investing in care, with reference to rather sensible statements made by today's Minister Kuipers from his previous career, so to speak. But it's all gonna happen. We are all going to do so very often in the coming period, so we will come back to that in great detail. I've got something else now. I have just spoken in detail about the decision-making process, which can and must be improved. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important for support in society and in the Chamber that the Second Chamber should be able to discuss the corona measures to be taken in good time;]] [[whereas circumstances sometimes require different order, but that should be an exception;]] [[calls on the Government to propose a decision-making process where possible before entry into force, including, in particular, the time-limit for the publication of documents, when reviewing the approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Westerveld, Mr Tielen and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1724]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u695	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u696	Mr. Chairman. I thank the ministers for their answers. Head's off. It was a nice start. I can see that when I look at the clock. The spicy debates will come, but we can now start again under a good stellar atmosphere. It really has to be different. That will, of course, have to be demonstrated in the coming weeks. Firstly, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his commitment to look again at how to get schools safe as soon as possible, with good ventilation. Minister Wiersma will work on that. Two: thanks to Minister Kuipers for his commitment to tackle disinformation, to look critically at doctors who participate in disinformation, but also participate in intimidating and undermining practices. Thank you for that. And also for the cultural sector, which is rightly disadvantaged, as I said. That's a pile-up of cases over the past two years. We cannot do that now, but they also deserve to have a chance of reopening. And for allzzp'ers, in all sectors, it turns out that they were structurally not entitled to support and therefore have often not made it or are not going to make it, because aid is simply too late. I hope that this cabinet too will look at this with different eyes and other glasses. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u697	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Westerveld van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For some time now, we have also made it a point that the democratic decision-making process must change in order to get better decisions. That is why I am also under Mr Hijink's motion. I would like to thank the new rulers, also for their commitments here, and for the open conversation we could have. If anything is needed, it is to have the open conversation with each other here in this house, to discuss the substance of the matter. Of course, intimidation and threats are not one of them, and I would like to emphasise that. Mr President, I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cultural and sporting sectors have been closed for months and that the water is on their lips;]] [[noting that several cultural and sporting events were already possible via Access Testing last February;]] [[noting that the research carried out by TU Delft, UMC Utrecht, Erasmus and Populartics notes that Testing for Access is the safest corona admission to open sectors;]] [[noting that the maximum speed test capacity of Access Tests is as high as 4.2 million per week, while only 120,000 rapid tests per week are used;]] [[noting that corona schemes on wage support alone (NOW) and fixed charge relief (TVL) cost around EUR 1.5 billion per month;]] [[Whereas the cost of 4.2 million tests per week amounts to around 59 million euros and thus the benefits are unequivocally higher than the costs;]] [[considers that the safe and responsible opening up of the cultural and sporting sectors is of crucial societal importance;]] [[calls on the Government to use the remaining rapid testing capacity to make more possible in the cultural and sports sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1725]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u699	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about the solidarity levy. I am not going to repeat my first term, but I do find it indigestible that the mega-businesses, the Bol.coms, the Amazons and the Takeaways have converted hundreds of millions more thanks to covid and that the hospitality and the cultural sector are really languishing and still closed. That is why I propose a solidarity levy. The motion that will regulate that is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the cultural sector,zzp'ers and SMEs in the catering sector were already heavily affected by the corona measures and are now suffering severely;]] [[Whereas, on the other hand, some large companies have made a higher profit thanks to the corona measures and still have higher turnover while others cannot earn anything;]] [[calls on the Government to put forward a proposal very soon for a form of solidarity levy for large companies which have benefited from the corona crisis and which benefit the cultural sector,zzp'ers and SMEs in the hospitality sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1726]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u701	Then, Chairman, another one about the bird flu. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important to keep an eye on the spread of avian influenza virus and possible mutations;]] [[noting that the zoonoses expert group also points out the need for monitoring to detect a possible outbreak of zoonoses at an early stage;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all dead animals found in nature and suspected of avian influenza are investigated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1727]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u702	The very last sentence, Mr. Chairman. I've heard the Minister say, "I'd like to take a look at it." So I may be able to hold this motion later, but I shall do so in the second term of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u703	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Then I give the floor to Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u704	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the directors for the very pleasant answer. Even if we didn't agree, the answer was still to the point and pleasant and they were listening. That tastes like more, I'd say, although I'd rather not have too many corona debates. Mr. Chairman. We had this debate, but it is of course important that we work together with all the people involved in this beautiful country to keep going through this difficult time. It is precisely that that is what the mayors called for. That's why this motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is working on a long-term perspective for dealing with corona;]] [[Whereas, as a society, we must learn to live with the virus and this is also a shared responsibility of governments, social partners and civil society;]] [[calls on the government to engage municipalities, social partners and civil society including education and care in the preparation and development of the long-term approach in order to promote acceptance and to allow each to contribute from its own responsibility to a concrete approach offering perspective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Bikker, Van den Berg, Tielen, Stoffer, Gündoğan, Paulusma, Kuiken, Pouw-Verweij, Van der Plas, Den Haan, Wassenberg, Simons, Westerveld, Hijink, Agema, Van Haga, Omtzigt and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1728]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u706	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Meijeren of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u707	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's been almost two years since we wouldn't shake hands for a few weeks "to flatt the curve." Not much later the so-called intelligent lockdown was introduced. In the meantime, we are in yet another stupid lockdown, all for a virus that seemed equally dangerous at first, but which soon became clear that it is not much more dangerous than a heavy flu and that has even developed into something that is more comparable to a heavy cold for most people. Meanwhile, the Netherlands is still being kept locked, today we are again talking about the most absurd, far-reaching measures, while more and more Dutch people see that we are being tricked. It has to stop now, and therefore the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, calls on the government to abolish all corona measures immediately, and goes to the order of the day. The: This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meijeren. She's getting No. 1729 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u708	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Gündoğan van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u709	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motion, indeed. For now, I'm content with the answers I've received from Vak-K. I hope I can say that more often, as long as it takes. So thank you for that. And I sincerely hope that with the new OMT advice a lot of sectors will be able to steadily re-open responsibly. I would like to repeat what I said earlier, namely'most people are good', and also Mr Alex Brenninkmeijer. 'Cause people say it's Rutger Bregman. No, it's Alex Brenninkmeijer. He used those fine words when he said goodbye as a National Ombudsman. That's where it's coming from. And I think we should go into this phase with each other, especially by having the confidence, as he said then, that 98% of people are good, and that the government should not think that way in terms of fraudsters. So we have to be gentle for people, but we also have to be tough on disinformation, conspiracies and the platforms that make that possible. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u710	Thank you very much, Mrs Güntoğan. Mrs. Pouw-Verweij has signed out. This also applies to Mrs Simons from BET1. Then I give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u711	Mr. Chairman. Now a slightly less loaded happening before me than before, thank goodness. And I must also say that it is a pleasure to meet the new ministers. Thank you for answering almost all my questions. I've just been checking. I thought the Prime Minister owed me one. Anyway, she forgets something a lot. But he has made a promise that he will return to it. And I ran into another one for the U.S. Secretary of State. After all, I had asked for the Guidance Committee on Digital Support Fighting Covid-19. It can only give advice, but I asked for that decision to be reversed and for those unsolicited opinions to be delivered. This gives a broad flow of information, and this is what the Minister wants. Finally, Mr President. My group chairman said: Chris, look at the report of the Van der Staaij working group. So, as little motion as possible. So I just don't have one either. But I think he will also be quite proud of all the other colleagues, because it is very limited so far. That does not, of course, mean anything to those who are still coming, but the compliments of Mr Van der Staaij on all those who have submitted so few. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u712	Thank you. I hope it's a trend, not a one-time thing because we have new rulers. Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u713	Mr. Chairman. I have seven motions. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Firstly, I would, of course, like to thank all the directors for the answers they have given in the first term. It was indeed a pleasure to meet you. I really liked it; pleasant to listen to, clear answers. And we might as well be on the same page. And I hope that in the debate we are going to have on 2G and 3G we can also get closer in the same way - I am holding my heart. Mr. Chairman. I only have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the OMT is currently basing its opinions to the Cabinet on the effects of the measures on the following three pillars:]] [[acceptable strength of care;]] [[protecting vulnerable people in society;]] [[keeping an eye on and having an insight into the spread of the virus;]] [[Whereas, although the possible economic, psychological, social and physical consequences of measures are taken into account in the OMT Opinion, they are not part of the central pillars and are therefore of secondary importance;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the OMT in order to add the psychological, physical, social and economic effects of any measures as a fourth pillar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1730]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u714	I also had an open question about the corona tickets. I'm counting on a second-term response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u715	There is an interruption by Mr Hijink with a question about your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u716	I understand very well what Mr Kuzu is looking for. I think that's right, too. The opinions should be broader. The only question is whether you should expect the OMT to include the economic effects of corona measures in their consideration. The question is whether they belong there. I actually support the call, but I do not necessarily support the idea that all this should be included in one Outbreak Management Team. It is a team intended to combat the outbreak medically and epidemiologically and not to do everything else. That's kind of the point I want to make. Perhaps the motion could be modified on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u717	I think it is a valid point. I was just looking at it, too. I think we should bear in mind that we are no longer dealing with an 'outbreak', but that we should also consider it a little wider. Maybe a name change from the Outbreak Management Team is an interesting idea that can be taken. In particular, I would like to take a look at this economic aspect and then we can indeed do it together. As far as I am concerned, the social, psychological and physical aspects remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u718	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Den Haan of the Den Haan Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u719	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet will shortly come up with a long-term strategy on corona;]] [[Whereas carers play an important role in the collection of scaled-down care;]] [[calls on the government to include informal care and therefore carers in the medium- and long-term strategy for the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan, Mr Stoffer, Mr Bikker, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Tielen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Plas, Mr Kuik and Mr Simons.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1731]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u720	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it may be relevant with which combination of vaccines the booster is given;]] [[calls on the government to examine, in the light of Omikron, which combination of vaccines is best suited to a possible subsequent booster campaign, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Den Haan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1732]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u721	I had a third motion, but I'm not filing it. It was about organizing the acute axis differently in the hospitals and taking that into the reconnaissance. That's what the Minister promised. Thank you for that. Thank you to all the directors for answering the questions and special thanks to the Minister for Health. It was very nice to have this debate with you on content, quietly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u722	Thank you, Mrs Den Haan. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u723	Thank you. I'll start with a motion, because when I start talking, I don't have time for that anymore. So that's what I'm gonna do first. Business first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[not registering whether people end up in hospital with covid or by covid;]] [[Whereas the number of covid patients in hospitals is leading decisions on the use of covid measures;]] [[Whereas there is now an overestimate of the number of covid patients in hospitals and on the ic and this leads to incorrect assumptions and modelling;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to amend the registration as soon as possible by distinguishing between patients with primary and secondary covid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas, Mr Pouw-Verweij and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1733]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u724	That leaves me 40 seconds. I had a few more questions. What is the Minister going to do to heal society? I had also asked for attention to be paid to the aid workers who were on the front line two years ago. Because the government's protocols were not yet in order, they have transported sick people to the hospital under some protection. These people have been at home sick for two years now. They're in the middle of a financial crisis. They have to sell their house. They're stuck at the UWV because lung covid isn't in the system as yet. I would very much like to ask the Minister whether he, or at least people from the Ministry, would like to contact these people to help them get on their way. The suffering is enormous. It hurts me a lot, especially in the knowledge that two years ago we applauded these people and now they are finally on the ground. That's my request. I'd like to hear it in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u725	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u726	Mr. Chairman. I have five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that TU Delft has shown that 2G is not effective;]] [[calls on the Government to stop fully with the Corona Access Pass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current quarantine rules are completely disrupting our society;]] [[requests the Government to lift the quarantine rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to lift the test obligation on entry from non-Schengen countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to immediately and unconditionally abolish all corona measures for the catering and cultural sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the differentiation of patients residing WITH or BY corona in the hospital or on the ic is not currently taking place;]] [[Whereas it is also not recorded whether corona patients have previously experienced corona naturally;]] [[Whereas this leads to contaminated data and less effective models;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, better registration of corona patients in the hospital and on the ic,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1734]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1735]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1736]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1737]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-1738]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u727	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to answer a number of questions and to give an appreciation to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u728	I would like to ask Members to take their place again. Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I shall first give the floor to Mr Wassenberg and then to Mrs Gündoğan.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u729	Thank you, Mr President, with your permission, I would like to take part in the motion on item No. 1724 by Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u730	We're about to write that down. Mrs Gündoğan has a small correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u731	I just said to Minister Adriaans: 7% of GDP, but it must be 3.7%. Nevertheless, it is a large part and the cultural sector deserves our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u732	We'll take that with us in the Acts. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u733	Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions. The wide lockdown was not linked to a reduction rate. I thought I'd remember it that way, but I checked it out. That was the case in November. I have mentioned the objectives. Then we'll talk about the local Cathouse sessions. In recent weeks, a number of discussions have already taken place in preparation for the design of medium and long-term policies, including with local cultural, sport and church partners. Larger, plenary, physical sessions were not possible with the measures in force. In the further development of the long-term documents, we will re-examine the work of the Director-General who is working on covid, if possible in a more plenary, physical form. We will report on this in the letter on the long term in February and we will involve the thought of what is going to be called "the local Catshuis sessions." It looks better there than at BZK, as we see it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u734	One more question has not been fully answered. Mrs. Agema from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u735	When it comes to the reduction, I would have asked whether the objective had been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u736	There was no reduction rate linked to the lockdown package. That was the November package.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u737	You say I did it with the curfew package. It would be a good thing for the Prime Minister if he were to tell the Chamber whether the 20% to 25% reduction in contact was achieved, the objective he set on 26 November. This package of measures was intended to reduce contacts by 20% to 25%. That's in the letter of November 26th.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u738	I will return to that in the next letter. I think that's true, but we're gonna get to the bottom of that. That'll be in the next letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u739	I'm just a simple MP asking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u740	Sorry, just the answer. The R has come under one, so I think it is. We're gonna put it in the letter very precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u741	It comes back in the letter, Mrs. Agema. It's no different now. Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u742	Thank you for the answer, I say to the Prime Minister. Let's check it out. So it's about letting local setting mayors be some kind of local prime minister, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u743	Yeah, but we can't force that. Well, that's up to the local mayor. We can stimulate it, but it's up to them to do it or not. Of course, that's always the hard part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u744	No, but the point is that the aim is to give them the opportunity to play that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u745	That is entirely in line with the way we talked about it on 16 November. I took a look back at that. Then I thought it would fit with BZK and that is less appropriate on second thought. It seems to be better suited to the Directorate-General for Longer-Term Covid and therefore it also fits better in drawing up those long-term plans. But then it's still the thought that the mayors are also in position. They have to want it by themselves, of course. Then about the open days in high school. These are events that are unfortunately not allowed yet. I did get whispered in my ear from the corner of the PvdA that apparently those open days have already been pushed through for that reason. I can't really check that now, but I can't do that right now. We hope we can do it again as soon as possible. Then there are a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u746	Before you continue, Mrs. Chicken of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u747	In fact, if you don't, I'll have disinformation. The central registration days are in any case in my city, and I also hear shifted in other cities, so that open days, if there is room for that, are possible, so that parents and especially their children can make a decision. To put it more precisely, for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u748	Thank you. That's right. The motion in part No. 1724 I should like to leave it to the House to decide, especially now that Mr Wassenberg has been added to it, that was the tipping point.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So we will deal with the motion in part no. 1724. The motion in part No. 1726 I must advise against, with reference to the debate. A letter was also sent on 29 September. I'm getting an official signal on my phone. In doing so, I can answer Mrs Agema's question on that November package. The aim was to reduce contacts by 25% and thus to bring the R under one. That worked with the November package. That's the answer to that question. The motion in part No. 1729 of the Forum for Democracy calls for all measures to be abolished. With reference to the OMT advice and what we discussed in the debate, I would like to advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 1730 from DENK I'd like to dissuade. The considerations are not correct. Mr Hijink's response was correct: the OMT has tasks in the field of epidemiology to implement the Public Health Act. The wide range of social and economic impacts is part of the policy. The opinions on this matter come from, among other things, the planning agencies. Then the motion to part No. Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van With reference to the OMT advice and the debate, I would like to advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u749	Thank you. Let's go back to cleaning. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u750	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I still owed some answers to questions. First of all, this is a question from Mr Kuzu about the digital corona certificate and the corona tickets. When I read the answer, I remember why I didn't have it exactly in my head. The European digital corona certificate is currently valid for 180 days after recovery. For the corona admission ticket in the Netherlands that is currently 365 days. The intention is to bring this in line with the European rule, i.e. 180 days. That was also the case in the Netherlands in the past. It has been extended at some point and now we are bringing it back to the situation as it once was and thus to the European situation. That's after recovery. After vaccination, the European Digital Certificate shall be valid for 270 days. That was infinite in the Netherlands and the intention is to take it to 270 days. It's very technical, but this is what it is. Then I owed an answer to Mr Stoffer's question about the Guidance Committee on Digital Support Covid-19 and to advise it asked and unsolicited. This multidisciplinary and independent guidance committee has previously been set up to advise on the development of digital support tools, such as the CoronaMelder, the CoronaCheck app and the GGD Contact app. In the meantime, no new means of support are being developed, but the management and, perhaps someday, the phasing out of the instruments is central. A different commitment of the guidance committee is therefore also appropriate. I am currently discussing with the committee exactly what that means for future implementation. I do not want to anticipate the decision-making process. Then there was a question from Mrs Paulusma about waiting for a booster after infection. Here that is three months, in Belgium two weeks and in England four weeks. It was asked whether that term could be reduced. It is about optimum protection, so it is not about the maximum number of booster vaccinations over the next two to three weeks. From the build-up of antibodies, an optimal interval could be longer. The original thought was six months, but that was shortened to three months with the omikron variant. For now, there's no intention of bringing it back to two to four weeks. Then there was a supplementary question from Mrs Paulusma on pharmacists. Pharmacists are already used for the vaccination campaign, sometimes to help at large-scale vaccination sites, sometimes in the provision of information, sometimes in the lead to the GGD. According to the BIG Act, pharmacists are not independently competent to administer vaccinations, but can indeed vaccinate under supervision. I am also in favour for the future of really looking into how health care workers in the broad sense of the word "me" I have already mentioned the example of obstetricians, but that could also apply to pharmacists if a further booster campaign was needed at some point. Finally, there was a question from Mrs van der Plas about contacting healthcare workers who are previously infected and who are now suffering from long-term complaints. I very much want to make a commitment to get in touch with those people together with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u751	Thank you for this. That's very much appreciated. I'll make sure that the contact details of the group of people I'm in contact with are in this case that paramedics are headed in the direction of the minister. That gives me an instant opportunity to do so, because I was over my time thanking all the ministers and the staff of officials for their efforts and the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u752	Thank you. I would certainly not forget the staff of officials, because I am impressed by the way in which I am supported in the very fast pace of answering all these questions. Then we'll get to the different motions. I have a package here. First of all, Mrs Tielen's motion on broadening the objectives of the corona policy. I'd like to leave that motion to the House's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u753	That's the motion in part No. 1719.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u754	Yes. The motion in part No. 1720, on the withdrawal of the oral cap in the MBO and HBO, we must be discouraged. This was very clear, and I refer to the OMT opinion, which is an element and an important condition in order to be able to relax.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u755	I understand that it is a multitude of subjects for the Minister that we are discussing in his first Corona debate. But I would like to point out to him the recent report of the RIVM on ventilation. We have waited a long time for that. This shows, among other things, that ventilation in a nightclub, for example, can lead to a 70% reduction in contamination. Take that. And also that corona doesn't like heating rooms and ionization. Surely that package is much more effective than shutting down children, young people, teenagers, 20s, with a mouth cap all day in a poorly ventilated room from their oxygen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u756	I can hear the different components. I fully endorse what Mrs Agema says about the ventilation. We discussed this earlier in the debate here. Once again, in the current epidemiological situation, it is really a mix of contamination and number of contacts. We have already considered what that means for education. So for now, we're dissuading the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1721 on the financial bumps. That motion is the verdict of the Chamber. For the motion in part No. 1722, on the health campaign, the same applies: Court judgment. The motion in part No. 1723, on art and cultural display in the context of education, is also judged by the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 1725 the government is invited to use the remaining rapid testing capacity to make more possible in the culture and sport sectors. Unfortunately, we must discourage this motion. That's about a lot of tests. As has already been announced, we will come back to access and testing for access, and we will first also answer the questions of the Chamber. What is proposed here would have great implications. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1727, about dead animals and the suspicion of avian flu. We don't recommend that motion. It is also not feasible in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u757	I'd be happy to continue this motion, but I'll ask the Minister the following. At the moment when these animals are found, in the interests of public health, I think it is extremely important to check whether it is avian flu or not. I do want to know what happens to those carcasses, because in the interests of public health you cannot just take them to destruction. If the Minister is prepared to return to this matter in the forthcoming Corona letter, if necessary later, then I can at least hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u758	Yeah, I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u759	The Minister nods. Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u760	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (25295, No. 1727. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u761	Then I come to the motion on part No. 1728, inviting the government to engage municipalities, social partners and civil society in the preparation and development of the long-term approach. I'd like to leave it to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u762	That's nice, isn't it, Mrs. Bikker?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u763	Yes, that's very nice, but I didn't come forward for that. I came forward for the motion in part no. 1725. Mrs Westerveld is not here and perhaps she would have asked the question otherwise. On the basis of this motion, I would like to ask the Minister to look at how, when the considerations are made again next weekend, the capacity that is still available for testing for access, precisely because it can be used much less, can possibly be used to open up the sectors mentioned by Mrs Westerveld in her motion: sport and culture. That is a slightly milder statement than the motion says, and I do not want to undermine her motion, but I think it is very good that capacity is being used for these sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u764	We would like to take a very specific look at that. Moreover, the Stichting Open Nederland and the GGD's are already in conversation to look at this case, which also applies in particular to people who have complaints about how the capacity there can also be used in addition. With regard to possibilities for further opening, we always consider what to do. But the motion as it stands, namely to use the test capacity widely to open additional sectors, really touches on the conversation we have to have about the corona pass. I was at the motion in part no. 1731 on informal care and care: please judge Chamber. The motion in part No. 1732 is about combining vaccines with a possible next booster. That also applies to the Court of Justice. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 1733 regarding the modification of registration for patients with and by corona. I do not recommend this motion for a resolution because of the arguments already mentioned in the debate. The motion on 1734 regarding the withdrawal of the corona tickets also applies that I advise against it. The motion in part No. 1735 on lifting the quarantine is also given as advice: dissuade. The motion in part No. 1736: dissuade. The motion in part No. 1738 comes back to that better registration of patients. I also advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u765	Then I would like to thank the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. There was another question for the Minister of Justice and Security. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions. One belonged to Mrs. Agema. She asked about mouth caps used by criminals to get away with it. This is a complex balance of interests that lies with local authority. But I understand the question. I also checked how local authority deals with this. On the one hand, of course, you have the great importance of the masks that Mr Kuipers has just mentioned and whatever the experts and the OMT show. On the other hand, local authority, for example during demonstrations where dangerous situations can also arise, has a lot of tools to use and deal with because many people may have a mouth cap on them. You can think of preventive search, arrest units and the like. So that complex balancing of interests takes place locally through the triangle. Mr Van Haga also had a question. I forgot it in the first round, but it was right in front of me. He asked: what measures are now covered by this emergency law, the Temporary Law measures covid-19? Your Chamber was informed on 2 November 2021 about the content of the fourth extension of this law, and thus also about the foundations still in force in the law. Last Tuesday, you received a stand-of-business letter. It states exactly which measures apply and which measures do not. That is quite a strong letter, so I would like to invite Mr Van Haga to take a look at it. It's got everything in it. The law applies until 1 March, but, as Mr Van Haga knows, it is renewed every three months. And congratulations in advance. I just heard from the Prime Minister that Mr Van Haga's birthday is in an hour's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u767	Yeah, in an hour!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u768	Yeah, that's why "already."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u769	We all knew that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u770	Maybe that's why Mrs. Chicken sang. I don't remember either. But I have answered all my questions here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u771	Mr Van Haga, on behalf of all your colleagues: congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u772	This happens every year. Every year I thank the Prime Minister for congratulating me on my birthday, but I am on the 31st and not on the 21st.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u773	That mistake is made every year, I think for about five years. But thank you very much. I hope to hear from you on the 31st.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u774	That is where Mr Ephraim comes in. He's gonna make a personal statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u775	To supplement my colleague: he likes good wine very much. Condrieu, white: fine. You all know the date now, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u776	I'm gonna see if the minister... I don't think there were any more questions. Oh, Mrs. Agema. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u777	Mrs van der Plas likes to sign the motion in part No. 1720.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u778	Okay, the motion to part No. 1720. We're gonna take care of that. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-01-20-tweedekamer-9.u779	I would like to thank the rulers very much. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the people who have been watching this debate. We are going to vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled, as indicated earlier.
