ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u1	We will proceed immediately with a two-minute debate on childcare, but it is just as different. It concerns the amendment of the childcare allowance decision. We are having the debate again with the same ruler. I give the floor to Mr Kwint. He will speak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u2	Thank you. We've had a written consultation on this. What matters to us is that there are currently parents who, whether temporarily or not, are seriously ill. That's why they can't work. They are often not covered by the so-called Long-Term Care Act because of the temporary nature of their illness. Therefore, they will not be granted an extension of their entitlement to childcare allowance. That's complicated, because you're at home all day, but if you're very sick, it doesn't automatically mean you can take care of your child. It will undoubtedly happen with the best intentions, but you will then be at the mercy of the municipalities whether or not they are working on it. We think we can do better than that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are families in which one or more parents (whether temporarily or temporarily) are seriously ill, they cannot (temporarily) work and are also not covered by the Long-term Care Act;]] [[also noting that these parents are not always entitled to childcare allowance and are referred to the social-medical indication scheme of the municipality where they live;]] [[Whereas this scheme differs from one municipality to another and is not always appropriate for families with one or both seriously ill parents, which often means that childcare is not payable but necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the right to childcare allowance to parents who are unable to work because of a serious illness (temporary or otherwise),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31322-456]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u3	That's it again, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you. Then we go to the other Mr. De Jong, for all the viewers who follow this. This one's from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr. Chairman. We've got two De Jongs, but there's another one in the back of the room. He's only three years old, but he's gonna be able to take a night with him tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u6	You're very welcome. That's beautiful! I'm so glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u7	Mr President, we are here following the written consultation. We discussed the draft decision on the linking of working hours for parents with a partner with a Wlz-1 indication or a prisoner partner. That was quite a mouthful, but precisely these kinds of changes make the difference for many people who are currently disadvantaged by government policies. It's no secret that my party prefers to see the supplement system disappear. Until then, it is essential that we extract as many hardnesses as possible from the terribly complex surcharge system. My colleague Van Weyenberg, together with the VVD, tabled a motion to take stock of these hardnesses and to get rid of them, the so-called quick fixes. I must say, therefore, that I am surprised that, in his written response to quick fixes, the cabinet speaks mainly about the financial consequences and the budgetary picture. Above all, it is a question of creating a fairer system for Dutch citizens. I would like the Minister's confirmation that she agrees with me that filtering toughness for citizens is more important than the financial picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u8	Thank you. There was one question and one motion. I'm suspending for a single moment. The Minister may then answer the question referred and provide an opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u9	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for letting me talk to you. This Chamber of Officials is much closer than the one at the committee debates. That's an advantage. Mr. Kwint. No, let me first say in general that I take the view from this discussion that the Chamber agrees that we have taken an important step in making it possible for people with a Wlz indication and with a partner in detention to be entitled to child care allowance when working. I really think this is one of the things Mr De Jong has already said, which makes a difference for individual citizens. This is one of the reasons why we want to do our work here every day and why we want to do it right. This really matters to the children of those people and to those people themselves. Then I have one motion from Mr Kwint and a question from Mr De Jong in a moment. Of course, the group of parents who have a Wlz indication can be clearly identified. Mr Kwint knows that, too. The group of parents who are temporarily or longer unable to take care of their children because of a serious illness but do not have a Wlz indication is quite diverse. Then tailor-made work is more appropriate than the generic tool of the childcare allowance. For that customization, we have the municipalities. They can deliver the necessary customization. They know these families. An investigation has been carried out into the functioning of the SMI. The SMI is carried out by the municipalities. That research from 2020 has also shown this. It also emerged that municipalities have more often embedded the SMI in the wider field of youth and education. Municipalities also indicate that they are pleased with how they can carry out the SMI and make a balance between the SMI and other instruments, so that they can provide tailor-made services for families who have these problems. This also means that the financial compensation for childcare costs for those situations runs through the municipality. With that, I need your motion in part no. 456 dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u11	One question. This research shows that the municipalities themselves are very satisfied with the functioning of the Social Medical Indication. But I've never seen an investigation where municipalities had been assigned a task and didn't think they were satisfied with the execution, unless more money had to be added. I understand that we may not be able to agree now, but would it be an idea that in the long run we will also look at the receiving side for a look at how this is going to work? After all, I do not care very much whether the municipalities are satisfied, but we want, as you said just now, above all to help those vulnerable groups. I mean, we're looking at that more broadly than just the satisfaction of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u12	I think that is a good idea, precisely because I suspect that Mr Kwint has tabled this motion because he has certain signals. I'd be interested to hear those signals. Then we can take that into account in the investigation and see whether it is a wider or a narrower problem, or whether it is because one municipality interprets it differently than the other or because the scheme is not working properly in one way or another. But then we can take your signals and just repeat the evaluation that we did two years ago, but with a clear focus on the receiving side: the parents with a serious disease that is now covered by the SMI. Then there is Mr De Jong's question. I had to look that up. The question is about the letter sent to you by my colleague in charge of Supplements. It's in front of the committee debate Supplements you'll have with the Secretary of State next week. We have, of course, included in the coalition agreement solutions to some of these bottlenecks, for example the KGU, which we have arranged. In the meantime, we will continue to explore improvements in the system. But you're actually saying, do you realize how important the tone we're playing here is? That's what I heard you say: do you realize that we're from somewhere and we're not working hard here for nothing? In general, you have adopted a number of motions for resolutions on this subject, looking at what we can do, whether we can look at citizens differently, from confidence rather than mistrust, and how we no longer go to 1-0 situations, where a citizen's mistake immediately leads to a great fine. All these things have to do with the fact that this citizen, and that is you and I too, when he comes to a point of contact, feels that he is an equal partner and can really have a conversation about his or her situation. That is at least my interpretation of what you have just said. I think that's how we should do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-14-tweedekamer-25.u14	Then next Tuesday we will vote on the motion tabled.
