ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the reception of Ukrainian refugees. I would like to welcome the directors in trade-K. I'll just name them. There are five: the Minister of Justice and Security, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, the Minister for Housing, the Minister for Poverty Policy, Participation and Pensions and the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education. You're very welcome. The Minister for Justice and Security has indicated that due to an urgent private environment between 1.15 p.m. and 4.15 p.m. she will not be present for the debate. Of course, its officials will follow the debate and catch up. I therefore hope for your understanding of this. The Secretary of State for Justice and Security will, of course, also answer any questions that may arise at that time. I would also like to welcome the spokesmen, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following the debate in a different way. Since we have many speakers and many rulers, I would like to limit the number of interruptions: four questions or comments to each other and six to the rulers. An interruption is a short question or comment. You know it. You can save the extensive introductions for your first or second term. Those were the household announcements. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks. She is also the applicant for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	I'm the Founder. Mr. Chairman. In the last two months, almost 5 million Ukrainians have left their country. From the first day of that horrible war, people, including in the Netherlands, came into action to provide shelter. The Dutch municipalities, with the security regions, have achieved almost 50,000 beds in a short time. That really deserves a big compliment. But many places are emergency shelters, and thus by definition temporary. Municipalities make every effort to meet expectations, but in practice this is at the expense of regular tasks. The alarm bells are ringing. How is the cabinet going to assist municipalities in the coming months, and perhaps years, financially and with manpower? And when is the implementation organisation in which the Empire cooperates with local authorities, with perseverance power, which can quickly arrange additional shelters, also for the long term? Mr. Chairman. That is not only for Ukrainians, but also for all those other people who are entitled to shelter. The contrast between the reception for Ukrainians and the reception for people from, for example, Syria, Yemen and Afghanistan is really appalling. On Monday evening the message came that 300 people from Ter Apel had to be evicted because otherwise they would end up on the street. Compulsory agreements on reception and housing must be made with all municipalities. The Secretary of State also continues to say at oral Question Time that the emergency law really applies only to Ukrainians. The reason for the emergency law is indeed the large influx and therefore exceptional conditions in the reception of displaced persons. However, lawyers tell me that it is then a choice whether you allow this emergency right to apply to all people who need shelter, or only to people from Ukraine. I ask the Minister: give me the legal basis why that should not be possible. Or is it indeed a political choice? Then it's a very painful one. Mr. Chairman. We have to take serious account of an even greater influx. What are the scenarios for if there are 100,000 to 150,000 displaced people coming to the Netherlands and if people stay long? We're past the first phase of crisis. What are the plans for how to proceed? Here are five rulers, and I feel discomfort confiscating their precious time. I actually lived on the assumption that Minister Yeşilgöz as coordinating minister and chairman of the MCCb would be the first point of contact for us as Chamber. This is not the last debate we are going to have on this subject. Is it possible for a coordinating executive to be accountable on behalf of all members of the cabinet? A few specific questions, first of all about housing. Can the Empire join forces by making a real firm commitment to the real estate portfolio and ensuring that locations can be prepared in the short term? Can municipalities be helped to conclude long-term contracts for locations as well? This is because the current regime does not seem appropriate. The living allowance is an ad hoc scheme. What are the plans for a more structural solution and for bringing it into line with the mainstream social services? Then it's about education. What is the vision of the Minister for Education for if people are going to be longer in the Netherlands? How are we going to get all these kids the education they need? Are we going to actively address the silent reserve, because we are already suffering from a huge shortage of teachers? Is that a possibility? That's what I'm asking the Minister. How do we ensure that Ukrainian students can continue their studies? Is it true that the general practitioner care, but also psychosocial care, is still not arranged? I realize that that minister is not in trade-k, but I hope that that question can be answered. These are all questions which, as far as I am concerned, also have to do with the ambiguity of the rights that can be derived from temporary protection status. Why does the Minister not opt for a clear solution by giving all refugees from Ukraine a temporary residence permit? Finally, Mr President. We are in a crisis in which no policy area is really left untouched. The situation now calls for pragmatic short-term solutions, but above all calls for a long-term perspective. I would very much like to hear from the coordinating minister how this is being shaped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haga, Group Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. During the corona crisis, the cabinet became addicted to emergency laws, and there was no sign of rehab. With amazement I read the royal decree implementing articles of the People's Movement Act. There's literally a threat of moving houses. Once again, our fundamental rights are at risk. Emergency rights are there for acute threats, if there is no time to resolve them in a regular way. Preempting a possible emergency situation with emergency laws is wrong under state law. There is no emergency, there is no acute shortage; there are still 10,000 places available. Can the Secretary of State confirm his statement in De Telegraaf that the reception of Ukrainian refugees is not problematic? The People's Movement Act is causing emergency situations. Anti-crackers have to leave their homes, and the rent of companies that have already been hit hard by the corona measures of this cabinet is cancelled. What is the government going to do to prevent Dutch entrepreneurs from becoming the child of the account again? Mr. Chairman. It's creating a panic, putting Parliament out of play and taking away fundamental rights. This cabinet is doing this because there are now 30,000 refugees, while 100,000 have been coming in for years, as a result of years of mispolicy by the various Rutte Cabinets. The Secretary of State is now coming forward with a law for the summer to force asylum seekers into custody. This is not in the interests of the Netherlands. BVNL doesn't want a restraining force, it wants a restraining force. Is the Secretary of State now finally going to give priority to the expulsion of safe-lords and exiled? BVNL is in favour of generous support for displaced persons, but that does not have to be in the Netherlands. What is the status of BVNL's adopted motion on the generous support of neighbouring countries in this context? Mr. Chairman. The conclusion is that the reception of Ukrainian refugees should not be a problem if the cabinet had not made such a mess of asylum reception in recent years. So why not make, like Great Britain and Denmark, a deal with Rwanda to deal with non-Western asylum seekers there, in the interests of the Netherlands? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Piri, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. "In the future, things will have to be different: a more flexible reception system with rapid emergency response, in close cooperation with local government." It could have just been the words of this Secretary of State. But these ambitions were expressed by one of his more bearded predecessors, VVD'er Klaas Dijkhoff, in the debate with the Chamber, at the end of 2016. Dijkhoff then went around municipalities with the hat to beg for extra shelters. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have great respect for the hard work done by the current Secretary of State. At the same time, however, we must conclude that little has been learned from the previous asylum crisis. The Netherlands currently captures more than 40,000 refugees from Ukraine. We all know how big the challenge is, because there are already shortages of homes and teachers and long waiting times for youth care, for example. Despite the hard work of many officials, municipalities and volunteers throughout the country, our asylum system is squeaking and cracking on all sides. While almost 10,000 beds remain empty for the time being for Ukrainians, this week hardly any more than 300 people from Afghanistan, Yemen and Syria have to sleep on the streets. The fact that thousands of reception places have been created for Ukrainians within a few weeks shows that solutions are possible, if there is any political will. My group believes that all refugees seeking protection in our country should be properly received. That is why we are in favour of bringing all people entitled to care under the emergency law so that we treat everyone equally. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Although the willingness to accommodate people from Ukraine in our country is very great, some political choices made by the cabinet are incomprehensible and, according to my group, unwise. Let me start with the choice not to grant refugees from Ukraine a temporary residence permit, unlike all our neighbours. A temporary residence permit would not only provide more security for refugees, as required by the European Temporary Protection Directive, but would also make it more consistent with existing provisions. Why does the Cabinet not ensure that students from Ukraine, a rather limited group, can study in our country with the help of study funding? Why does the Cabinet opt for the CAK scheme for the uninsured and not for the so-called RMA scheme or even regular health insurance, so that people from Ukraine simply have a health card and caregivers do not have to deal with red tape? Why is there so much unclear about the access of refugees to social security? Do Ukrainians who work get the protection that goes with it? These are all matters that would facilitate a temporary residence permit and ask for a long-term vision, especially in order to facilitate the work of municipalities. As in the crisis of 2015 and 2016, they face major challenges and the help of the Empire remains behind. How much money is the cabinet going to make available for additional capacity, even for the longer term? Does the government consider that the standard amount announced for day-to-day care is sufficient and can the directors promise that all additional costs will be reimbursed and that municipalities will not decline? Ukrainians are now also not recommended to apply for asylum. Can the Secretary of State undertake that any subsequent asylum permit may be granted with retroactive effect from the first notification to the authorities? And are costs, pending registration in the BRP, compensated for the direct provision of living money or trauma processing? Mr President, that concludes the debate. Language and integration from day one. A truly flexible asylum chain without yo-yo policy and better influx into education. Just when it is once again all hands on deck, that is how I would like to tell the cabinet, these lessons from previous crises provide a basis. This only benefits human dignity in the shelter of people fleeing war and violence, wherever they come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr. Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. Mrs Piri is now calling for the third time to give refugees from Ukraine a temporary residence permit. She has asked that question before, and that question has also been answered earlier by the cabinet. We have a system in the Netherlands that makes it technically impossible for us to translate it one-on-one. We will then have to adapt the arrangements and there is a good chance that Ukrainians will build up procedures. And two: if people get a permit, they also have a direct right to a home. Then I look at the Minister for Living with the question: how can we give 40,000 people a home right away? Mrs Piri is now arguing for the third or fourth time in favour of this regulation. Then I'd like to hear from her how she solves these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have, of course, seen the response of the cabinet. I find it very strange that, if you have a European directive which is transposed nationally in all Member States, it can be done in Germany, in France, in Belgium, in Sweden, but not in the Netherlands. I didn't get an answer. I understand that acute reception is now the priority of this cabinet, but soon Ukrainians will face a lot of issues, because the legal framework we are setting up here does not provide sufficient guarantees for the examples I have just mentioned. There's gonna be a problem with the health insurance. There will be a problem because Ukrainians will not be able to renew their driving licences here after six months. I just gave other examples as well. All this has to do with the legal framework chosen by this cabinet. My conviction is that this is a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	It's not a political choice. It's a choice of execution. Mrs Piri can continue to rely on European reality, but we are dealing here in the Netherlands with Dutch regulations. Of these, the cabinet indicates that they are not enforceable. And I didn't hear an answer to my question about those 40,000 homes. I wanted to ask Mrs Piri a question. It calls for all asylum seekers to be included in the emergency right. We have chosen not to let Ukrainians go through the asylum procedure, because the asylum procedure is overburdened. Does Mrs Piri in fact argue that all asylum seekers should no longer have to go through the asylum procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	That's actually three questions in one. First of all, to answer the first question: it is really a political choice how to use this European directive here. I do not agree with the choice made by the cabinet. When it comes to the emergency law, we see that there are 10,000 beds available for Ukrainians who are not filled up now, while we have to break down a tent in Ter Apel where little children sleep for whom we have no shelter. The logical reasoning would then be, if there are beds available, to bring all asylum seekers, all refugees who are entitled to reception, under the same regime at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	The answer to what the VVD colleague asks Mrs Piri remains unclear, namely where the 40,000 houses come from. I am a little surprised by this speech. I also hope that the government will respond differently than I fear, because there is a temporary emergency. When I hear the PvdA today, it's a matter of letting everyone stay here and arranging schools, amenities and homes, but we can't. That's what the influx of people shows every day. The shelter can't even be arranged. The beds are not there, let alone the houses and the amenities. I really hope that the government will give the warning that this should not be the signal, because we have heard by now that refugee work in the Netherlands says that we can assume four to five times as many people from Ukraine who come from safe countries and who ultimately choose to come to the Netherlands, because they do not think they can go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	And your question to Mrs. Piri?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	How does she reflect on this warning from me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	I agree with one point of Mr Eerdmans' speech, namely that if you give a temporary residence permit, it does not automatically mean that people are entitled to their own home. It's possible. You can do that. You can give people a temporary residence permit without giving them the right to, for example, a social residence. I'd like to hear from the cabinet how it wants to make that happen. I do not agree that Ukrainians would not be entitled to education here. We are members of the European Union. We have to abide by this European directive. It simply specifically states that the people covered by this scheme are entitled to education and decent care. That doesn't necessarily mean having your own social housing. As far as that is concerned, we simply need to put all the sails in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	It's very simple: people who get temporary status are entitled to a home. You can say that this is not included, but that is precisely the consequence of that. I see the Secretary of State nodding. So either you take those words back or you say, "I made a mistake." But we can't live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	They are entitled to shelter because these people have not applied for asylum and because they are subject to a special procedure. Of course, we must ensure that there are also places available. I agree. I also think there's a very good chance that some of these people will eventually stay here. Of course, as for anyone with a residence permit, you will have to arrange a home. At the moment, however, I think it is a really wrong choice to give this argument as a reason not to grant a temporary residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mrs Piri. Then I give the floor to Mr Azarkan van DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. It is heartwarming to see how many people are willing to receive refugees from Ukraine as best they can. There is unprecedented unity, solidarity and sympathy from the Netherlands and the rest of Europe when it comes to the arrival of Ukrainian refugees. The Netherlands then turns out to be caring and empathetic. Many Dutch show their true solidarity with refugees, in a way we have not seen in a long time. Mr. Chairman. This generous and superhuman effort for the Ukrainian refugee shows painfully that in recent years we have seriously failed in the reception and human treatment of other refugees. The difference is really frightening. We have seen other refugees being waited for with burning torches, that leaders of municipalities were threatened and intimidated by groups, because they offered space and shelter to refugees. I must also recall debates we have had here about the refugee camp of Moria, which was filled up to the ridge, where children piled up in broken tents slept, ate moldy bread and were mistreated. After long negotiations, the Christian Union, the VVD, the CDA and D66 found that there was room for a handful, but they left many. Mr. Chairman. I am also thinking of the toxic anti-refugee rhetoric here in the house of democracy, and of the many lies the PVV and the VVD told every day to reduce the support for refugees. I have to remember the former leader of the VVD, who told me that refugees received eyelid corrections, breast reduction and complete tooth renovations at taxpayers' expense. Pure lies to sow hatred and hatred. The VVD group wanted a prison sentence for people saving groups of drownings from a boat. You can't imagine. Mr. Chairman. This anti-refugee rhetoric is still seen daily in our normal shelter, in Ter Apel, where refugees have been living under inhuman and degrading conditions for weeks now, where children play in the garbage, where a penetrant sewer air hangs in the shelters, where urinals are full of smell and brown drab and people sleep on plastic chairs and cardboard boxes. I will spare you the terrible details of this shameful scene, which is currently taking place in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Markuszower, PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Azarkan just said that the VVD and the PVV told lies. Well, that the VVD is lying, we all know. That's not news. Mr Azarkan also gave two examples of falsehoods that had been said by the VVD in this context, but the examples of the PVV were missing. Can Mr Azarkan tell us where the PVV lied about the asylum terror that was poured out over the Netherlands by the same VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	You must dare, as a member of the PVV Group, to come forward here and ask me what terrible things and what terrible xenophobic anti-Islamic rhetoric and anti-refugee rhetoric have changed here in recent years. The way the PVV talks about people, about people of flesh and blood, is so degrading, so hateful. It's the business model, the electoral income model of the PVV, and they know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	Those are all qualifications. Those are qualifications other than the word "lie." We say that of all suspects of crime, one in three non-westerns is ethnic. As regards crime among asylum seekers, they committed 4,500 crimes in 2020. Those are all facts. Of course, you can call that "xenophobic." You can give them all qualifications. But can Mr. Azarkan indicate where we lied? Because again, the VVD lied. We all know that. The VVD always lies. But the PVV is just telling us facts. One in three criminals in the Netherlands has a non-Western ethnic background. What's the lie there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	Again, you really have to dare: come forward here and shop selectively in all kinds of statistics. Those PVVs read the newspaper all day long, and everything that happens in the Netherlands about crimes and robberies they always let go, unless they think there's someone involved who has a foreign surname, who is of migrant origin. That's the business model. Day in, day out, it's like this. It's what makes the PVV big. It's the only thing that makes them have those seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr. Chairman. Ter Apel is increasingly changing into the Lampedusa of the Low Countries. That is the result of this government's years of insane administrative unwillingness to take people properly. I have some questions. Why are we waiting months to find shelter for non-Ukrainian refugees? Why are emergency locations in Almelo and Wassenaar closed? Why are we shutting down tent camps without a view of an alternative, causing thousands of refugees to end up on the streets? In recent years, the government has consciously pursued policies on the execution and harassment of refugees by establishing them under bad conditions and undermining legal assistance. I heard the spokesperson of the VVD say: it is already so busy; people are standing in line. That's policy. It is a policy to continue to prosecute as long as possible, including from the government, against those refugees that we do not want. Finally, Mr President. DENK is on the side of humanity, humanity and international justice. It is good and human that we have a warm welcome for the Ukrainian refugees. And there's still a lot to do. But let us also stop treating other refugees unfairly, inhumanely and unequally. The only thing missing is the political will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Then I give the floor to Mrs Podt of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr. Chairman. Join us from day one, for everyone, wherever your crib stood. For D66, that's the core. I therefore find it heartwarming to see Ukrainian children in the classroom next to Dutch children. It is also good to see how the first Ukrainians find their way into the labour market. Today I will ask questions about Ukrainians, but also about Syrians, Afghans and Yemenites, those other asylum seekers. 'Cause the distinction's sanding. What a Ukrainian can do from day one, many others can't. Where Ukrainians can move freely through the Netherlands, Syrians are constantly being moved. And where Ukrainians are allowed to work, Afghans must wait for their procedure. A lack of autonomy, a lack of self-direction about the most fundamental things in your life, does something to a human being. D66 hopes that more autonomy will become more central to policy for other refugees as well. When the biggest peak is over, is the Cabinet prepared to investigate the impact of this way of working and how can we promote autonomy for all newcomers in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group was rather pleased with the news that there would be no distinction in the use of state real estate for care. Now I read in recent letters that state real estate is being made available for the temporary emergency shelter of displaced persons from Ukraine. Can the cabinet confirm that the state real estate is still used for everyone and not just for Ukrainians? There has also been a lot of talk recently about indications: to ensure that mayors or security regions, if there is no other way to do so, can identify the place where shelter should be provided. That is a far-reaching competence, and we must deal with it carefully. For Ukrainians, this possibility is now being dusted off. For other asylum seekers, we get an insight into the possibilities before the summer. D66 also wants care, but doesn't understand the difference. As far as we are concerned, the misery in Ter Apel is crisis enough. That is why D66 calls on the Secretary of State to send the proposal for the legal framework to the Chamber for the summer so that we can discuss it as soon as possible. The crisis is now taking place. We also see this crisis with the children in Ter Apel. It is good that, according to the letter, there is now daily spending available, but we continue to find the situation worrying, including with regard to education. Can the cabinet regularly update us to prevent children from running out of education and daily spending?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u29	An interruption by Mrs Kröger, GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u30	For the summer, an initial investigation into the possibility of designating non-Ukrainian people who do have the right to care is still very late. Does D66 agree with me that we should ask the Minister to find a legal guarantee to include other refugees under the current emergency law and to look at other emergency instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u32	A clear answer. Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u33	Sorry, I don't know what I'm hearing. D66 calls for greater autonomy for refugees and says that asylum seekers should be able to move more freely. I don't know how that thought can come to anyone at all. We've seen all this crime for the past ten years, right, like the bus drivers who got terrorized? There has even been a VVD minister resigning to cover up the crime of asylum seekers. What world have you lived in? This is a really bad idea, isn't it? Is D66 completely blind to reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u34	I think it has become clear in all kinds of recent debates that the world view of the Forum for Democracy and the world view of D66 is quite different, even in this respect. I think autonomy is very important to people. It ensures that people are better off in society. I think it's very unhealthy to say to people for a very long time: this is what you have to do and that's where you have to go. I think we all agree that you need to fight nuisance and crime, from anyone, an asylum seeker, someone from D66 or someone from the Forum for Democracy; I don't care at all. But autonomy is a good thing to make sure that all those people who stay here find their place in a good way later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u35	Mr. Jansen. No? Then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman. Municipalities have an important role to play in the reception of Ukrainians, but they struggle with the financing of the Empire. The chosen special benefit provides a lot of administrative accountability and loose negotiations with other departments about everything outside the care facility. The short-term commitment means that municipalities do not make long-term arrangements with accommodation, although this is of course more advantageous than extending each month. Can the government promise that the effort will be made to reduce the administrative burden on municipalities and that more long-term funding will be used? It says in the letter that municipalities can set appointments with reception locations for 12 months, so please confirm. Mr. Chairman. D66 has stressed from the outset that we need to prepare for people to stay long. In the press, in relation to the housing of Ukrainians, the word "Ukraine villages" passed. D66 believes that in order to participate in society really is a very bad idea. Can the cabinet promise that we will bet as much as possible on mixed living instead of putting Ukrainians outside society? Mr. Chairman. D66 is very pleased that the cabinet has made another 10 million available to Moldova, but wonders whether we, as EU Member States, should not also take over more people. Will the Secretary of State plead for this at EU level? Mr. Chairman. In Russia people are also under pressure and security is sometimes at stake. There is therefore reason to review the country policy for Russia and to apply more coulance with the Russians in the Netherlands who feel Putin's threat. Mr. Chairman. Joining us from day one applies to all of us. Let us commit ourselves in the near future to ensuring that everyone can make a good start in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. An interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk, SP, and then by Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u38	Asylum policy and reception are an incredible mess. Mrs Podt was still here on Tuesday because of the children who are neglected. But D66 has also been in government for five years. Don't you blame yourself for this? And why, for example, do you not support the SP's proposal to invest heavily in care? Because there is a very big weakness there because of the mop policy about funding. This funding needs to be much more structural. Then why don't you just support our proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u39	I believe that the coalition agreement has provided a great deal of extra money for the asylum chain. I think that we need to monitor very closely in the coming period that this is being properly implemented, so that procedures get better and reception is being improved. In addition, you will find me by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u40	In her speech, Mrs Podt makes a great point of autonomy for the individual, including asylum seekers. I like that in itself, but when it comes to municipalities, this autonomy can be thrown overboard as soon as possible, because we need urgent emergency legislation. We're seeing a massive influx. For municipalities and for everyone, it is very difficult to cope with this, but Mrs Podt cannot wait to push that shelter down the throat of municipalities and give up that autonomy as soon as possible. How can she rhyme with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u41	Well, I'm from that local municipal policy, so if there's anyone who cares very much about autonomy of municipalities, it's me. But I also think that this is a task that we must face together. What we have seen recently is that certain municipalities of Ter Apel, Westerwolde in the lead, are extremely at the expense of the policy as it is today. I think that is why we are now in a crisis situation. That's not, as the VVD says, because the influx is so awfully high, but that's because we just didn't plan well. If we plan the shelter every time as a bad O.V. company would, so if you make the bet every time on Monday morning as you would organize that Sunday afternoon on the train and then you're surprised that it's all not going well, things are going wrong. So I think we should do better, and I think that for now that emergency legislation is needed, we need it quickly, especially. So, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u42	Finally, Mr Brekelmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u43	The planning is indeed there. There are all kinds of models that are planned and sometimes it's a little more, sometimes it's a little less. But the COA has all sorts of projections of how many capture sites are needed. The point is that municipalities say: we do not want that. There is not enough support to provide shelter for so many people in the Netherlands. Mrs Podt then says: I also want to get more people from Moldova, more people from Russia. I don't hear anything in her entire speech about getting a grip on the influx, I don't hear anything about returning, I don't hear anything about dealing with nuisance. All I hear is: we just have to force municipalities to realize that shelter, even if there is no local support. I believe that this will put pressure on the support base for asylum policy. Certainly from Mrs Podt, with her experience from local politics, I would ask for an answer on how she will ensure that that support is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u44	Two things in Mr Brekelmans' speech, first of all, are saying that these plans are indeed there. On paper there is indeed that planning, but what we see is that, for example, the COA has been commissioned to close asylum seekers' centres before the summer of '21. That was actually a very strange reaction, because we all knew that after the corona crisis more people would come. So that planning is inadequate; we didn't do it right. Then Mr Brekelmans talks about support. For me, acceptance is something that is wider than just an individual municipality. As I said, because of the way we are dealing with Westerwolde, there is no support there either. In all honesty, if I look at the situation in Westerwolde and if I were mayor of another municipality in the country and I see overflowing toilets and the huge crowds there, then I don't think: hurray, give me such a asylum-seekers' centre. This is something we have to wear together. That's how you support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u45	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with the good news. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians are taken care of in the Netherlands, both in municipal facilities and in private homes. This is really impressive, because it was put together in a short time. For example, we were visiting Amsterdam Central Station, where the reception of Ukrainians takes place. That was really well organized. You can also see that in other places. Compliments! A few more questions, for example to the Minister of Justice. Lawyers give to Ukrainians to want to help with legal aid. They can provide information. Is it possible to create a legal aid facility? And then about the care of Ukrainians. The procedure requires a great deal of red tape. General practitioners report massively that they do not file declarations. Is there a solution to be found with VWS? Thirdly, we know that almost 10,000 Ukrainians are already staying with private individuals. The lack of supervision is worrying, because you really have to watch out for abuse and trafficking in human beings. How does the government see this? What do you do against the exploitation of Ukrainians when they go to work? Temporary agencies, for example in the Westland, are notorious. Make sure they treat people properly. I'll take a look at the Minister of Social Affairs. I have also heard that Ukrainians receive €60 a week's living allowance. However, people in welfare or in debt restructuring receive €50 per week. I would like to say: avoid crooked eyes and draw that right. Another point where you can get crooked eyes is municipalities that evict residents from their homes to place Ukrainians in them. That was the case in Hengelo and that is the case in Alphen at the moment. In Alphen, it's about temporary residents. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State or the Home Secretary. It's about temporary habitation. Minister Spies said there: "I'm going to evict them and I'm going to put Ukrainians in there, because they had to leave anyway." But now that temporary occupation is being extended. That's painful too, because now people are gonna end up in the street. I don't think that's good for the support. So avoid a waterbed effect. Then I'll go to the regular asylum seekers. That's a real mess. Every week we hear about asylum seekers who have to sleep on the ground and children who are neglected. For status holders there are no homes. Of the week 300 refugees had to be housed last minute. It's an incredible snap policy. The government runs from incident to incident. There's no more media in Ter Apel. Why not? Is it that bad? Be transparent. And what does the Secretary of State do? It mainly points to others, such as the House of Representatives. But, dear Secretary of State, that's not strong. You shouldn't point at us, but you have to get to work. Our proposal for a fair distribution of refugees is ready. You'll be able to take over in no time. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention four points. Stop mop policy. Ensure stable multi-annual funding so that azc's are not closed every time and staff are dismissed. Give the staff a generous reward and a good collective agreement, because they are having a hard time. Two. Take care of small-scale shelter according to carrying capacity. So not only in Rotterdam, but also in Bloemendaal. Feel free to look at the municipalities that have so far avoided their responsibility. Ensure a rapid procedure and return of asylum seekers who have been processed. If you do not do so, this is killing for the support base, especially when it comes to asylum seekers from safe countries, who also cause nuisance. That's why municipalities aren't in the mood for shelter anymore. So also ensure safety, not only in the surrounding area, but also inside the azc's, so that the staff can work safely. Is there finally a police station in Westerwolde, or Ter Apel? Because it's too crazy for words that this has been cut off. Those residents won't be able to do that. In short, the time of sticking patches is over. Create a delta plan for the reception of refugees, focusing on funding, distribution and return.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u47	Mr Van Dijk has a point to make that there are people who have no chance and who have occupied places of people who need this place for a long time. So I fully agree with his plea. We need to get people back as soon as possible. That's something that a lot of parties are calling for, like: come on! I am curious to see what Mr Van Dijk's idea is of actually getting that done now, because it just turns out to be very complicated every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u48	That's a very fair question. I have had intense debates on this with the predecessor of this Secretary of State, Mrs Broekers. We must ensure that the countries of origin cooperate, for example Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria. But what happened? The Secretary of State was not even received by the Moroccan authorities. That was really pretty painful. I would therefore also ask this Secretary of State what is the situation with regard to his attempts to negotiate this with the Moroccan authorities. If Morocco says 'we are not taking them back, we do not want them', then the Netherlands must put pressure on them. Then we have to look at trade relations and visa sanctions, because this really cannot be done. People who are entitled to asylum must be protected. We have to offer them shelter. But people who are not entitled to asylum will have to return. Otherwise, your asylum policy will go to hell.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u49	That is a point on which we agree again, namely that we really need to work with the countries of origin. Does Mr Van Dijk see the importance of the pilot sober shelter and does he think that we should distribute it more across the country, so that not all the pressure is placed on a municipality, such as Westerwolde, or on a place like Budel? Those places now say, "Thank you, this will cause us too much trouble." Do you see the importance of spreading the pilot sober shelter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u50	At the top of the list is a return. Someone who has no right to be here must return. If that does not work, we must, of course, ensure that they are not able to make a mess. It'll happen now. In Budel, community of Cranendonck, it's terrible: stabbing, threats, intimidation. Absolutely unacceptable! So provide sober shelter. I'm always for pilots. Keep these people from kicking shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u51	Many of the SP's ideas I said "many ideas," not directly good ideas, for example, to see if we can bring about a return to Morocco or other third countries, are not necessarily bad. I think there's some good ideas. In addition to all the pressure and conversations, I wondered if the SP would also be in favour of giving positive incentives, for example in the form of visas for labour migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u52	No, that looks like a dead end to me. I know that's what D66 is for. D66 would like to promote migration from Africa. Take a look at what labour migration in Europe is already calling for discussions: on exploitation, wage dumping and housing shortages. I think that's a very short-sighted, naive thought. You have to make sure that people who are not entitled to asylum return. To this end, you must put pressure on the countries of origin and not reward them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u53	I don't think D66 is in the mood to bring people here mass. We never said that. Only we do see labour migration as a piece of the puzzle. Does Mr Van Dijk not agree with me that, in addition to all kinds of pressure and complexity, it can also help to build positive incentives? Of course, there are also a lot of countries that are going to be bad if we just say all the time: you have to do this and you have to do it. If we also put something positive on the other hand, we say: if we grant employment visas, that could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u54	D66's underlying agenda is again to attract even more cheap labour from around the world. That's what the coalition agreement says. It is incredibly striking that the VVD has agreed to this. I would like to point out to Mrs Podt that we now have a huge influx of Ukrainians, on top of the free movement of workers that you already have within the European Union. So there are a lot of people coming in right now. D66 wants to expand that even further, including for people from Africa. That's not thought out. You really need to make sure that labour migration is regulated much better and that exploitation stops, otherwise you will get an unwanted division.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u55	I fully agree with that last piece by Mr Van Dijk. I think it's two sides of the same coin. One can't do without the other. At the same time, I hope that we will be able to see what effects it has with the people of Ukraine coming here and going to work later. I just kept a story about autonomy. I think it would be excellent if, with this cabinet, we could look at the effects that this has on Dutch society, but certainly also on people themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u56	I would like to ask Mrs Podt to take a look at the experience that already exists with labour migration from the European Union. There are hundreds of thousands of people, especially from Eastern Europe, who have come to work here. I have written a grandiose paper on this with the Christian Union. I would say: look at it again, because the negative effects of this model of labour migration, which is particularly good for employers, have been there for years. So get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mr Brekelmans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u58	The invasion and war crimes by Russia have caused millions of Ukrainians to flee. Less than 1% of these refugees are now in the Netherlands, but in two months they are already 40,000 people. That is more than the number of asylum seekers in a whole year. Let me start with a compliment. Over the past few weeks, the cabinet, municipalities and countless Dutch people have taken immediate action. Of course not everything is perfectly arranged immediately, but Ukrainians have a shelter, access to care and education, and can work if they want to. That's a huge achievement. I do have a few questions about this. Firstly, tens of thousands of Ukrainians are outside shelters, partly in people's homes. To date, only 56 Ukrainians have been officially matched. At this rate we have very carefully matched 5% in a few weeks and 95% stays out of sight. Would the Secretary of State like to look at ways to speed up this matching? As far as work is concerned, I would like to ask the Minister whether we are working on a regulation for Ukrainians who can work as self-employed persons. When can we expect results? For the crisis shelter, the Cabinet uses the Relocation Population Act. The Council of State advises positively on the two articles of the law that have been activated so far. Other articles of the law contain far-reaching powers. The VVD would have great difficulty with an old law from 1952 being stretched for this kind of radical measures. Now that other emergency measures under this law do not seem necessary for the time being, my question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to prepare a separate legal basis for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u59	There is an interruption by Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u60	The VVD would have great difficulty with it, I hear Mr Brekelmans of the VVD say. But what's the final verdict? If in the cabinet the VVD Secretary of State and the coordinating VVD Minister for Justice and Security come up with such an emergency legislation and Mr Brekelmans also knows: they are going to come up with it what will the VVD do in terms of voting behaviour? So don't come up with all the words, "the VVD would prefer that..." or "it would be better if..." but with voting behaviour: what will the VVD vote if emergency legislation comes?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u61	That depends on the situation. We have always said that coercion, when it comes to shelter, is a weakness offer, and for us a last resort in an emergency scenario. Suppose that tens of thousands of Ukrainians would come to the Netherlands tomorrow or in a very short time and that it would mean that thousands of people would come to sleep on the streets; then we say that at such a moment, if you have tried everything else, you can resort to coercive measures. We need a legal basis for this. And whether that will be necessary at some point, we assess at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr Markuszower, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u63	May I conclude by saying this? Today, and perhaps in the coming weeks, the VVD is going to make some tamtam through Mr. Brekelmans, some noise, that they prefer not to have that emergency legislation. But when the point comes to mind, and the VVD Secretary of State and the VVD Minister in Rutte's cabinet, also a VVD, are going to come up with emergency legislation, the VVD as we know it will eventually sign again at the cross. The VVD is just gonna do what Jesse Klaver and Sigrid Kaag want her to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u64	I think my answer to Mr Markuszower was very clear, and then he twists it again with his own words. At the moment when the cabinet is proposing coercive measures, we will see whether we really consider it necessary at that time, as a last resort. And if that is not the case, then we do not agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr Brekelmans has come up with a number of procedural questions to resolve the asylum crisis, but he has recently written a nice opinion article in Elsevier's weekly. In it he announced a return offensive to solve, say, the ruins of ten years of asylum policy. I was very interested in that. I thought, now come the solutions. But then I read the solutions, and then I see: 'intensify contacts with the countries of origin'. Well, then that's a solution. "Work with other European countries," "take off a mandatory corona test when foreigners frustrate their departure" and "sharp reporting obligations." Is this really the solution the VVD is going to propose to solve this asylum problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u66	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Haga for quoting my column; other Members of Parliament may also do so. No, I didn't say there was one solution that would allow you to bring everyone back in one go tomorrow. What I have said is that a lot of people from Ukraine and other countries are coming here, and that our shelters and our homes are coming under enormous pressure, and that is why it is now important to work harder on their return. This is also possible now that the corona restrictions have been lifted, allowing for more return. For that, you have to do a wide range of things. I've explained them all. I'm glad you agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u67	A return offensive sounds to my party like: now we're really gonna do something, after ten years we're really gonna put our hands together and we're gonna make sure that the people who are finished are finally leaving. But there is no beginning of a solution yet. So I guess this is another weak bite that's not gonna work. My next question. In my own contribution, I have proposed, like the United Kingdom and Denmark, for example, to make a deal with Rwanda to accommodate people there. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u68	I'll get back to you on that. I think that we need to conclude such deals with countries in Africa, the Middle East and North Africa precisely now, because that is the way to get a grip on the influx. The example of the United Kingdom may not be translated one-on-one for the Netherlands. I'm not saying we should close that deal copy-paste tomorrow with Rwanda. However, I think it is a support for my plea for a return offensive. It shows that this type of migration agreement with third countries is possible. I called on the cabinet to do so earlier. Get on with that. Make sure that we can do this together in Europe. Put in all the instruments we have for that when it comes to root and stick towards third countries of this kind. In addition, there are also a number of measures in the government agreement, for example the junk declaration, which makes it less attractive to stay illegally in the Netherlands. So also speed up the work of all such measures. I will come back to it in a moment, but I also see the deal between the UK and Rwanda as an encouragement for a return offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u69	I fully understand Mr Brekelmans' hesitation regarding the power of direction. That's what you want from the bottom. But we have seen for months now that Ter Apel is almost succumbing to it, because there is enormous pressure. How much longer do we have to wait to relieve that pressure? The presidents of the security regions also say: give us the power of perseverance. I would say: does not do this in structural terms, but it is now necessary. What is Mr. Brekelmans waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u70	As soon as you do so, the support of other municipalities that are already providing asylum care will be reduced. That's what I'm afraid of. Thousands of additional places have been arranged in recent months and in recent years, but I agree with Mrs Kuik that that is not enough. If you are talking to municipalities to see where this hesitation is now, then I will go along with what Mr Van Dijk said earlier, and you will hear that this has to do with nuisances in particular. If you can offer municipalities that you are doing more to combat nuisance and that, if you need to, you are working on smaller-scale reception sites, so if you are looking at how it is possible with municipalities, then it should remain possible, we believe, to make this kind of agreement with municipalities on a voluntary basis. We do not yet think it is appropriate to apply such coercive measures, even though there are some very exciting moments with Mrs Kuik, because it squeaks and cracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mrs. Kuik, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u72	It's more than exciting moments. Ter Apel has to wait for a last minute solution every time. The Secretary of State says he does talk to all those mayors and all those municipalities, so that's not the point. Only now we will have to have a moment to force something, to remove the pressure from Ter Apel. Now solutions have to be found at the last minute. We saw that again the other day, when 300 people had to be relocated at the last minute. That is not good when it comes to the quality of care. But it's also not good that we let one municipality take all the pressure every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u73	Of course, we agree on the latter. We agree on the analysis that there is a problem and that it is a huge problem in Ter Apel in particular. The only question is: what solution do you propose to the contrary? If you look at the current reception locations, you can see that there is an enormous amount of emergency care. Those are all locations that will end in the coming months or years. So we will have to find thousands of new places with the municipalities. If you are going to tell municipalities that coercive measures will be applied, then I think those municipalities will say: we will wait and see. This means that you have completely lost the support for asylum policy. Then you may have a solution for the short term, but you have a huge structural problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u74	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u75	We have a refugee crisis in our own region and, on top of that, the regular influx of asylum remains high. The fair observation is that we cannot deal with this structuralally. There are not enough homes, there is not enough staff to help all these people and there is not enough support to open so many new azc's. So what do the Cabinet and many parties in this Chamber want to do? They want to apply coercion: if municipalities don't want to, then we push it down their throats. We believe that this is a weakness and very damaging to the acceptance of our asylum policy. Can the Secretary of State confirm that coercive measures remain an extreme remedy in an emergency scenario and not become the standard policy in our asylum system?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u77	The VVD now pretends that the Empire has taken the initiative. But can the VVD confirm that this request came from the security regions, so from the local government towards the Empire? Can you at least confirm that? Can you also confirm that the suggestion that the Empire is now taking the initiative is incorrect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u78	I can confirm that a letter has been sent by the presidents of the security regions, the 25 mayors, and the King's Commissioners, in their capacity as sovereigns. They made that request. On the contrary, there are a lot of local administrators, mayors, aldermen and city councilmen, who do not agree with this letter at all. There's a lot of resistance to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u79	I'd like to mark this anyway. The VVD once again suggests to me, and also to the viewers, that the Empire is now taking the initiative to apply coercion, while this is a response to a request from the security regions and the King's Commissioners. It is important that it be seen in that light. Don't you think it's important that the viewers and the people in the Chamber have that sharp? Do you agree that the intention of the Empire is a reaction, and not necessarily the first action?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u80	I do not know the latter, because the idea of imposing coercive measures has been in place for years. Even before this letter, that idea was already singing. But it is true that this request was made from mayors and Commissioners of the King, as I said just now in reply to Mr Ceder. But for the full picture, I also say that there are a lot of local administrators, and other people in villages and cities, who are very opposed to that. If the cabinet would still like to apply coercion, the VVD prefers compelling measures to arrange locations for flex houses. If that doesn't go voluntarily and if it takes too long, push it through. This is a solution for many Dutch people who are looking for a home and for the flow of permit holders. At present, 13,000 places in azc's can be cleared. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. In addition, there needs to be more control over the asylum influx. This requires migration deals with countries outside the European Union. It is often said that these countries do not want that. This week we have seen that the United Kingdom and Rwanda have been able to make a migration deal. Is the cabinet prepared to advocate more action in the EU to also conclude such migration deals, to take the lead in them and to contact the UK about the experience?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you. Mrs Podt's last question, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u82	I find this... Of course, you can always make the request, but this has been examined very extensively a while ago. It has already been made very clear which practical and, above all, legal bumps are there to do this. It is really not recommended on all sides to do this kind of business. It sounds really tough, but can we just please not do this anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mrs Podt can make a lot of theatre here, but it is simply for years standing cabinet policy, and also policies within the European Union, to try to conclude migration partnerships. Mrs Podt doesn't like that, but that's the stake. I am not saying that we can copy that deal between the United Kingdom and Rwanda one-on-one. That's what I've been telling you before. There are indeed legal objections to this. But it does show that it is possible to make this kind of migration agreements at all. I think more work should be done on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr Cedar, Christian Union, and then Mrs Piri.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u85	The VVD and the Christian Union can agree on the point that we really need to do something at European level, including at the external borders. That's what the coalition agreement says. We agreed in the coalition agreement that there should be humane notification centres at the external borders. We prefer to do this in a European context, but if it does not succeed, it does not seem to succeed because some countries are obstructing it at least with a leading group of like-minded countries. Is the VVD prepared to call with the Christian Union at least Secretary of State Van der Burg, Minister Hoekstra for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister for this purpose? I think it is important to pursue this in a European context over the coming period. If it does not work within the European Union, then with a leading group of countries. Think of Germany. Next week will be the French elections. Maybe we can also involve the French to do something about it. Are you prepared to call together our leaders over the coming months to do so in a European context?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u86	If Mr Ceder asks me to take the lead with that group of countries in making agreements with third countries as an EU, I say absolutely. As far as I am concerned, apart from the three directors he mentions, this concerns the entire cabinet, I would dare say. Our Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation can also play a role in this, as can our Minister for Agriculture, who has many contacts, for example with countries in North Africa and Africa. I therefore believe that this should be a priority for the whole cabinet. Indeed, I believe that we, as the Netherlands, should take the lead in the EU and argue for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u87	Finally, Mr Ceder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u88	Well, that's good to hear. That's what we're gonna do together. We are going to keep the VVD to that, so that we can come to the cabinet with nice proposals to maintain the hunting function. Of course, this includes a key, as you also read in the coalition agreement. After all, it's part of the deal when you make it. I have not heard the VVD about this in the past few months, in this period, before. Do you agree with me that this cooperation, which we represent as two parties, also serves as a driving force for achieving this key at the borders of Europe if the whole of the EU does not cooperate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u89	I thought Mr Ceder was trying to lure me into this trap. So I'm just gonna focus on it a little bit. It's two different things. The EU can make agreements with third countries. That is one thing: external policy. I believe that we in the Netherlands, together with similar countries within the EU, should take the lead and encourage this. The second point Mr Ceder refers to is the common asylum policy within the EU. It would be good if we were to come up with a reform of asylum policy. If you come to an overall package and make very clear agreements on issues such as where people apply for first asylum, on the Dublin system, on the return regime and on everything that goes with it, redistribution can be part of it. But it has to be a total package. We should not argue in advance to redistribute with a leading group of countries, as Mr Ceder has sometimes advocated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u90	I'm gonna hit this last one anyway. This sounds very nice, very pro-European: if we do it all together, then we will also do something about this redistribution. But we simply know that the EU will never achieve this, because some countries simply do not want to; think about Victor Orbán in Hungary. That is therefore a reason for the VVD to do nothing at all about redistribution. Now my question. Mr Brekelmans spoke of Rwanda and the example of the United Kingdom. I would like to clarify this point. What kind of migration pact should the Netherlands investigate with Rwanda, do you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u91	I believe that the deal previously concluded between the EU and Turkey is an example, or could be an example. If people, for example Syrians who travel through Turkey and then want to travel to the European Union, are safely received in a country, you make agreements with Turkey about how to arrange reception in the country. So you're making further arrangements on that. If refugees come from the region of Rwanda, you could also make such agreements with Rwanda or countries in that region. I don't know the details of the UK deal yet. There have been some general reports about it, but not about that deal. But if you were to bring people from Afghanistan to Rwanda, it would not really be shelter in the region; I find that difficult. If that were part of this deal, I wouldn't be so sure. But what we have done with Turkey before, as I have just described, can serve as an example to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u92	An enlightening question, then. Do you now think that asylum seekers arriving in the Netherlands, who, as Mr Brekelmans says, come from 'the region of Rwanda', is that Africa? It is not a question of being in an asylum procedure here, but of being sent to Rwanda to comply with the asylum procedure. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u93	It is then a matter of taking a break from Rwanda with a country in the region to make arrangements for safe reception there. For example, as Mrs Piri well knows, there are millions of people in Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and countries in North Africa. We think it is better to agree with the countries there on humane care, so that people there have a safe place, and then give your people no reason to make a dangerous crossing by sea with all the horrors of that. This gives you more control over how many people come here and people don't have to risk their lives. If that means that people, if they do come, can be sent back to the region because they have safe shelter there too, we think that is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u94	In any case, I am pleased that it is clear that what you are proposing is actually a very indecent plan. Everyone agrees on care in the region. The point is that people arriving here are simply entitled to a proper asylum application that needs to be assessed. If it is not awarded, they will be returned to where they come from. Otherwise, we're either offering them protection or not. I hear the VVD here calling for people arriving here to be sent to a country like Rwanda, where there is no proper asylum procedure, where torture and human rights violations take place. This protection is not offered to refugees there. That is not at all comparable to the Turkey deal. Turkey then adapted legislation under pressure from the European Union to provide that protection to Syrians. You can't bring that into line with Rwanda, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u95	Two responses to that. Mrs Piri blames me for being indecent. I dare to say that the asylum policy advocated by Mrs Piri is more indecent than that advocated by the VVD. In Mrs Piri's policy, the most vulnerable people are, by definition, left behind in the shelter camps, because they do not have the money to pay for a smuggler of human beings and not the health to make that long journey by sea. Mrs Piri then wants the people who can afford it and who have better health to come here and then risk their lives at sea. I find that indecent. That is not the asylum policy I stand for. Then the second. Mrs Piri can now ask me all kinds of questions about that particular deal with Rwanda. I believe that, when concluding migration deals with Turkey, for example, you should indeed ensure that this is humane reception. We both know that Turkey is also violating human rights in relation to journalists and other minorities, which also provides asylum for Turks. Mrs Piri knows this better than anyone, because she has been the rapporteur for Turkey. But we both know that at the same time we have managed to make decent agreements for Syrians, so that they do not run these risks and can receive humane care there. So I think you can make that kind of deal with countries. But I say again that I do not think that you can copy that deal between the UK and Rwanda one-on-one. Besides, we both don't know the details yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mrs. Piri, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u97	I hope those details don't get out, because I really think it's an unholy plan. But it's nice that I finally hear the VVD pleading to take over those most vulnerable refugees. Resettlement was also part of the Turkey deal. I agree that we in the Netherlands need to do much more for this, but it is the first time that I have heard the VVD argue in favour of increasing the number of those 500 vulnerable people we receive every year, including this cabinet and this coalition agreement. That just has to be substantially higher. Then you must agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u98	No, I disagree with Mrs Piri and she knows that. At the moment when we would conclude migration deals and thereby reduce the influx, we are prepared to consider, as part of this, whether more resettlement would be possible. That is what we have done with Turkey. The Netherlands is one of the EU countries that has done the most for this. But we're not gonna do any more resettlement in advance without those deals and without that regular influx being reduced, because then you're gonna put the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u99	I want to make a point of order. We are having a debate here on the reception of Ukrainian refugees in the Netherlands and this is just going to be an asylum debate. There are requests for asylum debates here every Tuesday. They're all getting shot. None of them are being held in plenary. I should therefore like to ask that we stick to the subject. We have now talked about all countries in the last 45 minutes, except Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u100	This is a request to colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u101	I remember exactly the opposite, namely that we were standing here on Tuesday and that someone like me or Mr Markuszower asked for a separate asylum debate. Then it was said: no, we have that on Thursday; that is about Ukraine and you can bring it all up. I therefore have the impression that we are doing exactly what we have been asked to do. I certainly wanted to do that in my term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u102	I don't think you can tell these things apart. That's the whole point. So this debate, where so many rulers are present, I would see it as an opportunity to raise all these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u103	I have no problem with it being discussed. But make it an asylum debate. There are also a lot of people at home who, for example, take care of Ukrainians and who are involved, such as teachers, teachers. They are looking at this and they expect us to have a debate here on the problems and challenges we face. I am not saying that it should not be, but let us just say next time at Question Time: this is going to be an asylum debate. Then everyone knows what he's up to. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u104	That is an appeal to colleagues. Mr Jansen too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u105	Perhaps also an appeal to you, Madam President, to plan a separate asylum debate as soon as possible. Because, of course, it makes sense for it to come up today, but it is a very pressing issue that is being postponed and postponed every time. This simply needs to be discussed a great deal. This is evident from the extent to which it is being discussed today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u106	I do not very often agree with Mr Eerdmans in this Chamber in this kind of debate, but in this case I do. We have indeed simply referred people to this debate. Moreover, things are indeed simply interwoven, as Mr Van Dijk said. So I think we should do it this way. I think there's gonna be a lot of attention for Ukrainians. At least that's what I've done in my contribution, but yes, it's connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u107	You can see it: it is divided. And indeed, it was agreed in the scheme that, in addition to the reception of Ukrainians, we should also consider pending issues. But I do support Mrs Van der Plas: when the answer comes from the cabinet, let us emphasise the reception of Ukrainian refugees, because that is what we agreed with each other. But you're talking about your own contribution. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u108	Well, I think the point is that there are a lot of specific questions about Ukrainians, but that the facilities we have in the Netherlands, the number of shelters and the number of homes are all linked. It is therefore a good thing that we also discuss it more broadly. I would therefore like to ask another question about getting a grip on the influx, because another reason for the high influx is family reunification. Of course, people have a right to this, but there is a need to carefully assess whether someone is actually a member of the family. Otherwise, this will be taken advantage of. And what is my surprise? The Secretary of State eases the procedures which increase the risk of more people coming here illegally. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reconsider this relaxation? Finally, the fact that Algeria is no longer a safe country, also leads to longer procedures and therefore more occupation of shelters, while the incidence rates are still low. Is the Secretary of State prepared to re-assess Algeria's status as no longer a safe country before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u109	At JA21 we are blinking a bit at this VVD-story. I remember hearing a VVD executive say two months ago: Mr Eerdmans, you believe in fairy tales with that Danish model in which people in other countries are being received; that is not possible at all, it is inhumane. Mr. Van der Burg's predecessor referred it all to the realm of fables. So whether the VVD thinks that there will soon be Second Parliamentary elections again, that can of course be done or she has seen the light. I'm gonna listen to the government's answer and wait and see how many balls the VVD finally has to put this on the map. As far as JA21 is concerned, that is absolutely necessary. I just heard you say something in a subtle way about the reports of the IND, which indeed wants to ease the requirements for family reunification. You know as well as I do that that is the greatest form of migration there is. These are people who travel, who come to the Netherlands as family members. The IND checks to see if that's true... very necessary... with DNA checks, birth checks, everything. That's what people want to relax. Why? Not because people think it's actually fine. No, because the waiting times are too long. We need to shorten it, so people are going through control a little faster. Very wrong and also wrong. I hope you're not just saying you're afraid of that. Is the VVD really going to stop this with JA21?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u110	I agree with Mr Eerdmans that we are against relaxing family reunifications. We were also surprised by this message. We think it is good that you are trying to speed up asylum procedures so that people do not wait unnecessarily for months, but that must be done carefully. I have just said in my contribution that I see the risk that in some countries people from the wider family often want to come here under a family regime, even though they are not entitled to it. We have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u111	Finally, Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u112	I am certainly going to table a motion to reverse this unfortunate plan of the IND and instruct the Secretary of State to keep these controls as they are: strict and just. Is that what the VVD's gonna do? Because that seems to me to be a good appeal to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u113	I was also considering tabling a motion on this, so perhaps we should discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u114	I give Mr Brekelmans two details and I would like to ask him if he sees any connection between them. The first is that asylum policy, both reception and return, is a mess; this can also be seen from Mr Brekelmans' speech. The second is that in the last ten years asylum policy has been run by VVD'ers: Dijkhoff, Teeven, Harbers, Broekers. Does Mr. Brekelmans see that connection between that mess and the rulers? And if so, when do you throw the towel in the ring? Because you're not gonna be able to improve the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u115	I do not see that connection, because I believe that it is simply difficult to regulate as long as we have asylum policy. It's been going back longer than the last ten years. This is because the number of people coming here is constantly changing and the composition is changing. Like Mr Van Dijk, we could not have predicted two months ago that there would be 40,000 Ukrainians here now, as well as we could not have predicted in 2015 that so many Syrians would come here in one go. In other words, asylum policy is extremely complicated. There are all kinds of dilemmas. You need cooperation from countries in the region; we just talked about that. You're dealing with European regulation. I certainly agree with Mr Van Dijk that it is difficult, but I also find it very easy to say every time that it is all the fault of the VVD. I don't agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u116	As far as the Ukrainians are concerned, we absolutely agree. It just deserves a compliment. We were in Amsterdam together. That looked really good. But that does not, of course, give Mr Brekelmans the right to hide behind it, because your party has been at the wheel for ten years. We've been talking about this return for ten years, and it hasn't worked out for ten years. Then you can simply acknowledge: we can't do it, maybe someone else should try.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u117	I'm not saying nothing's gonna happen. I am saying that in a lot of ways more could happen, that more should happen. We, the VVD, always come up with new proposals for this, for example with the junk declaration. When we had problems with people who had to return earlier this year but frustrated their departure because they did not want to have a corona test taken, we also made a proposal. So there are new obstacles every time when it comes to returning, because people do not want to go back, when they have no right to stay here, and because countries in the region do not cooperate. We as VVD always come up with solutions and try to find solutions, but I agree with Mr Van Dijk that it has to be more and can be better. That is why I advocated a return offensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Eerdmans, JA21. I understand that there is also a committee debate on asylum on 22 June, just as in the background.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr President, on a point of order. I think it would be very wise, as in the case of climate, to do so more often in committee. Mrs van der Plas is right: we talk too often about pieces of asylum. We need to talk about this more structuralally in the House of Representatives. This as a harbinger of my contribution. I think it's a good thing that we do that every eight or six weeks, as with the Climate Committee. Let's get this over with. I'll pass this on to myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u120	It is good to discuss this in committee, too, I think. There is therefore a debate on the committee on 22 June, in other words an invitation to Mr Jansen to attend. Go ahead, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u121	Look, it's gonna be something. Mr President, thank you. Since the outbreak of the terrible war in Ukraine, which has turned upside down today eight weeks ago, 5 million Ukrainians have fled their country, more than 90% of whom are women and children. JA21 believes it is very important that they are simply received safely and humanely, until they can hopefully return to Ukraine. We have said it many times: JA21 is for shelter in the immediate region. That's where it should take place, and that's where it happens for the most part. Most of the refugees, almost 3 million, have fled to Poland. But other neighbouring countries, such as Hungary, Romania, Slovakia and Moldova, also receive hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. We have great respect for that. As far as we are concerned, our commitment in the Netherlands must also be aimed at supporting these countries, both financially and logistically. My question to the Secretary of State is: can we do more? Do you think it's enough, or are we still able to build this up? And what is the assessment of neighbouring countries' transit rates towards the rest of Europe? I just said something about that. RefugeeWork The Netherlands says that we are actually being slept and that possibly four to five times as many people can come to the Netherlands from safe areas like Poland. Mr. Chairman. I asked the Secretary of State on the committee earlier for a limit. Is there now a limit for the Netherlands that we say: that is about the limit from which we can meet in the reception of Ukrainians? Is there even a limit? In fact, you spoke in committee: no, it is not for me. Now we see the numbers we are facing. On the contrary, I think it is right to say that this is the limit for the time being to guarantee reception for people who are coming here. Are you prepared to repeal the Emergency Act on this matter, the Relocation Act? Mr. Chairman. The regular asylum crisis continues unabated. That's why it's a good thing we're talking about that too. I saw a bit of despair in the debate between Mrs. Kuik and Mr. Brekelmans. Within the coalition, the powerlessness is so great that you have to go to the interrupt microphone to ask your own VVD coalition companion in despair: "But what should happen? How do we get out of the Ter Apel problem?" I find that typical. That explains the problem for me. You don't really know. I can't wait to see how the cabinet handles that. Mr. Chairman. At the heart of the situation is that the war in Ukraine shows mercilessly how bankrupt our asylum policy is. The flow of refugees from countries in Africa and the Middle East has continued. We're now at twice as high a month as we were a year ago. That's basically the point. That is why we now have so many problems with the reception of people from Ukraine. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State is considering using legal instruments to force the municipalities to receive asylum. The COA tries people who have the status... Mr President, I understand that there is a need to have a little talk in section K, but perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to listen. The COA tries to oblige the municipalities to give 13,500 people with a status mandatory housing in the municipality and to house them in hotels. The whole asylum policy is jammed. The cabinet is now making it clear once again that these people must be given a place of residence as a matter of priority. How can we explain this to people? People in other target groups who have been waiting for a home for a long time are being pushed aside for the people with a permit from the usual asylum procedure. That's something that's gonna pinch. The basis of support disappears. We are going to table a number of proposals and motions on this, I think, among other things on the unfortunate plan of the IND, perhaps with Mr Brekelmans. My final question is about the people who take Ukrainians into their homes privately. Mr Van Dijk of the SP spoke about 10,000, 20,000 or 15,000 people, I believe. How's that going? It is warned that it is disappointing in practice. We have to be honest about that, too. People who have opened their homes and hearts out of mercy get those people in the attic or in the house, and run into problems. How big is this problem? Can you say something about that? Does it turn out to be easy or disappointing in practice? Perhaps you could indicate the exact number. Mr President, so far in this first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u122	Thank you, Mr. Eerdmans. Then we'll go to Mrs. Koekkoek of Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch asylum system appears to be in a permanent state of crisis. With the arrival of people fleeing the war in Ukraine, that crisis becomes even more visible. Yes, we are in the process of setting up a crisis structure to deal with the arrival of Ukrainians, but we are not solving the real problem: the lack of a solid basis, a solid foundation, under our asylum system. The result is that we are forced to work reactively, not for the first time, and that we can hardly cope with the arrival of new people. Not everyone who is looking for safety gets the guarantee at an acceptable minimum level of reception. Mr. Chairman. This situation must be a thorough wake-up call for all of us. Action is needed, but we have a Chamber which is very divided in principle on this issue. This division stands in the way of real solutions. You can't do that anymore. It is time for action and solutions, and there are solutions. For example, the European Commission makes billions of euros from European funds more readily available to Member States to cover the direct costs of receiving refugees. My question to the cabinet is: what are we going to bet this money for? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. We know that municipalities can use the money very well, especially in the light of the legal mandate that is to come. I ask the Secretary of State: can we use some of this money to set up an additional registration center to relieve Ter Apel, or to catch up with the IND? I would like to hear a response to this. Mr. Chairman. We hear stories about shortages of basic services, even for the most vulnerable. We all know the stories from Ter Apel. Of course, this must be resolved as quickly as possible, but in the meantime, how can we ensure that the facilities that are available actually reach Ukrainians, such as thousands of available beds or accessible information on how, for example, they can open a bank account or receive education? I would very much like to hear from the various departments what is happening and what is going well, so that good habits can be shared on the various subjects. Mr. Chairman. Refugees still do not receive a temporary residence permit in the Netherlands, which hinders them in building a new life. That was also mentioned earlier today. It is still assumed that they will be able to return to Ukraine in the foreseeable future, when we do not know when the war will end, let alone what the country will be like afterwards. Is the Secretary of State prepared to proceed to temporary residence permits? In addition, we know that unregistered children in other countries are being referred more quickly to child protection agencies. In the Netherlands this number is much lower. How does the Secretary of State explain this and what will the Secretary of State do about it? And in particular, what can we learn from, once again, the good habits of other countries? Is the Secretary of State prepared to give priority to children when transferring emergency shelters to regular azc's? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. From Europe, we hear Poland's call for additional money to maintain social services there, because of the influx of 2.5 million refugees. There are even noises in Poland for a separate fund. Here, a European asylum and migration pact could meet a need. How's the cabinet looking at this? Are we going to commit to such a separate fund, or are we finally going to use the asylum and migration pact effectively? You'll hear where my preference is. Mr. Chairman. Last week we reached the story of the Russian lhbti asylum seekers who were intimidated, including pro-Putin comments. The COA has ignored previous signals. What is the Secretary of State doing to provide more security for vulnerable Russian lhbti refugees, but also for Ihbti refugees from Ukraine? What can we do extra in view of the situation? Mr President, before I conclude, I would like to make one more important point. It is important that we do not treat Ukrainian refugees differently from other refugees. That is why I support the initiative of GroenLinks on extending the special emergency law to all refugees. Mr President, I shall conclude very quickly. We need action now. I would very much like to hear how the cabinet will act quickly in this crisis. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u124	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u125	I'm surprised again. I know that Volt was founded to transform the Netherlands into some sort of EU province. Volt's argument is that all these people should be granted a temporary residence permit...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u126	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u127	Perhaps you could clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u128	That's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'm gonna go back to my input. The argument is that everyone must have at least what is needed to live well. Let me make it very simple: it's about food, water, education. The temporary residence permit, as discussed earlier today, immediately solves all legal problems. Previously, Mr Piri also explained that you could make a distinction in, for example, giving everyone a home right away. I see Mr Jansen shaking his head, but this has already been discussed and I endorse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u130	So you did say it. But it cannot be done: at the moment when people are granted a temporary residence permit, they are entitled to a social housing allowance and they come into all sorts of priority paths, because municipalities have all kinds of arrangements to give priority to status holders. Then where are you gonna give all these tens of thousands of people a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u131	This has also been discussed before during the debate, but we can do it again. The temporary protection directive, which is now being used as a basis for taking people well, is different from what Mr Jansen is now referring to. So there is no need at all to do exactly what Mr Jansen is afraid of, namely to become a European province or to be taken over by foreigners. I don't know exactly where the care is, but that's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u132	Finally, Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u133	Mrs Koekkoek talks all the way around it, but in her own speech she says that the temporary arrangement that has now been introduced is not enough and that a temporary residence permit should be considered. With this they have a full residence status. Maybe she can read out what she said again, because maybe there's a misunderstanding here, but every time she seems to be going around it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u134	One step at a time. There may now be...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u135	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u136	Mrs Koekkoek has the floor and is trying to answer your question. Mrs. Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u137	Okay. Why I want to take it one step at a time is because the debate has already been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u138	I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u139	That's what I hear. One step at a time. I'm going to answer in my own way if you don't mind. There is a temporary protection directive. Among them, more people can be received in a way that gives immediate access to all good basic services. That's legally the simplest way. We could use that. We are not doing that now, not in the way that all neighbouring countries do. I say we should. Why? 'Cause that's how we outline perspective for people who need to stay here. We can talk about it for a long time whether we should or not, but I think we should, and why? Because the war between Ukraine and Russia is not over in one go, let alone that people want to go back right away. That's why it's necessary. That is quite different from saying: every person who comes here must immediately get a permit, get a house immediately and that is going to cause enormous problems for all the Dutch who are here. That is what I hear in Mr Jansen's interruption. That is why I am taking it one step at a time, because we have had this debate a few times today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you, Mrs Koekkoek. Then we're gonna listen to Mrs. Kuik from the CDA. Her last debate, I think!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u141	For now! Sure. Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate on the heartbreaking situation in Ukraine. Fortunately, we are dealing here in the Netherlands with heartwarming initiatives. For the CDA, there are three points I would like to consider. Coordination and communication in the crisis, the crisis in asylum reception, including the perseverance force and the flexible reception shell, and the prevention of trafficking in human beings. We have a moral duty to give the Ukrainians a good home. This is about receiving people from our region. A lot of work has already been done by organisations, individuals, governments. My compliments for that, too. Let me begin with what I ended the previous debate: coordination and communication in this crisis. The CDA has been calling for good direction and coordination from the start, not to close everything down, because nobody expects that. Precisely improvisation and adjustments are needed. So it is not rigidity or stall thinking, but coordination to support private initiatives, to join forces of public and private and to stand around the Ukrainian refugees with communities. The CDA was in favour of a reception ambassador. The Secretary of State didn't want to give his word, but he did want to give him a Directorate-General. I wonder, what does that team do in the end? Is it true that each department now informs municipalities individually and that each department also deals with this own funding for municipalities? Can the Secretary of State comment on how he sees this coordination and how he intends to combat fragmentation of state policy? Who is in charge of linking aid organisations and municipalities? Should aid organisations write down one for each of these municipalities? Then I come to my second point, the communication on decisions, which is important in order to maintain the support for reception. There is simply a struggle for space in one and the same municipality. What direction is there at this point? The area for the reception of asylum seekers remains far behind, so that all the pressure is placed at the municipality of that one registration centre, namely Westerwolde, in Ter Apel. For too long, the municipality of Westerwolde has been on its own to absorb peaks of asylum seekers, because the asylum chain is stuck. Now we have to have 300 asylum seekers distributed last minute. You don't deal with people who run from war and violence, but you don't deal with a municipality that dares to take on an important task. So yes, that perseverance is needed now. The Presidents of the security regions are asking for this themselves. Does the cabinet want to speed up this bill? What happens in the meantime? How is it not possible to prevent refugees from receiving the reception that can be expected and leaving Ter Apel to its fate? Mr. Chairman. The short-term needs the long-term changes, because this asylum collection system is on the verge of recovery. We simply cannot predict the conflicts in the world and the flows of refugees. That's why, as a CDA, we want a flexible collection shell, i.e. with spare capacity, for dealing with peaks and creatively dealing with empty locations upon descent. We want good distribution across the country plus additional registration centres and more pilots for sober reception of non-chanced asylum seekers, so that places for others are released as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u142	The CDA also advocates speeding up legislation on designation. An investigation is now planned for the summer. Perhaps Mrs Kuik's child is crawling about before we are doing something here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u143	I don't know!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u144	My question to Mrs Kuik is: shouldn't we simply ask the cabinet to urgently come up with emergency legislation in the same way as emergency legislation has been put in place for the Ukrainians; call it "an emergency procedure" so that at least quickly, in the very short term, there will be a legal instrument to actually give all those who are entitled to shelter in the chain a place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u145	I believe that there should indeed be speed, because we see that we have been dealing for months with a Ter Apel that needs to be helped every time at the last moment. It's been too long. So for us as CDA this is also the time to say... We find it very annoying, because we prefer it to come from the bottom, where municipalities organise and offer it themselves. It's not working. The Secretary of State is indeed talking the blisters on his tongue. I can see that, too. So I think that instrument is important, but not structural. Now we have to use it, but we also really need to look at how we are going to organise this in a different way, so that it comes from the municipalities themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u146	So that short-term instrument we are talking about can be the existing emergency legislation that applies to all people who need shelter or it can be another instrument. Does Mrs Kuik agree with me that we should have that settled within two weeks? That is what we have done for the Ukrainians. Needs are high.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u147	As far as we are concerned, it is, as soon as possible, for the people who come here and can count on shelter, but also for a municipality like Westerwolde, which now takes the high influx every time, because there is no proper distribution. Mr. Chairman. The Implementation Agenda Flexibilisation Asylum Chain would take steps in 2020. What has happened to this, also in relation to the points I have just made? The cabinet does not choose to claim long-stayed buildings. Why not? How many square meters could we win in this? The VNG is in favour of this. Maybe finally, the issue of trafficking in human beings. It is crucial that signs of human trafficking and exploitation are quickly seen and reported. Unaccompanied refugee children are particularly vulnerable here. Will the Secretary of State also set an objective to refer all unaccompanied children directly to the Council for the Protection of the Child? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u148	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jansen, Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u149	Thank you, Madam President. The cabinet intends to potentially receive 150,000 Ukrainian refugees. That number was mentioned as possibly the total number of people coming here. Some people say there'll be more. There is also talk about adding whole villages for Ukrainians. Apparently, nitrogen is no longer a problem. I would like to point out that, of course, flights are very bad. If your house or your country is being bombed, that's a terrible situation no one's asked for and nobody's waiting for. I can understand that very much. So it's not about the people themselves. But there must also be understanding for the Dutch, because the Netherlands cannot do this. The Netherlands is not in a luxury position with hundreds of thousands of extra homes that we can make available to all kinds of people around the world for a while. No, we're already having a huge housing shortage. There's a shortage of 300,000 homes. Our starters can't find a place anymore. Sales prices have increased extremely; rents have increased extremely. The queues for the social housing are now on average ten years and in many municipalities are up to fifteen years old. It is absurd to think that, out of the 100,000 people who have already come to this by default every year, we can house another hundreds of thousands of people. Now there is still talk of temporary shelter, but we have seen it in the past; also with Syria. The issue of granting temporary residence permits is already under discussion. A number of people from the left said: shouldn't we consider converting it into temporary residence permits? Then they immediately have a right to a house, and those houses aren't there. Already it's the way I just mentioned it. Students are now, for example, in temporary homes. They are already being evicted from their homes for the purpose of housing Ukrainian refugees. That's impossible, isn't it? We can't sell that to our own people, can we? Over the past decades, Dutch people have been put in the last place each time. This situation is now in danger of re-emerging. I don't think I can explain it. It's not temporary. The Netherlands is already full. Since 1950 it has been discussed that the Netherlands is full; then we had emigration programmes and Queen Juliana said it at that time. In the 1970s, with 13 million people, it was said that the Netherlands is full. We're going to the 18 million people. That's where we're going very hard. There doesn't seem to be any sense of urgency. The whole country is being built up. In every empty meadow a new residential area comes. The whole character of the country disappears. Starters can't find a place to live, can't start their lives. And we're just gonna have to go help the whole world. I don't think I can explain it. Maybe it's not a popular story, because everyone wants to be good and help pathetic people. All of that must be true, but there are also a lot of Dutch people who need help. There are a lot of starters who can't start their lives. There are a lot of young people looking at a hopeless procedure with a social rental house. That's completely inexplicable. This absolutely must not happen. The VVD still says it's against housing these people. Please let it stay that way. This is also a real appeal to you to continue to argue for this in the coalition, because your Minister and Secretary of State are working on an emergency law that allows mayors to force them to include people in their congregation. That must never happen. This must be stopped, because this contributes to the further deterioration of our housing market and our country as it has been for decades. This is very serious. To conclude with a positive note, I say: of course these people must be helped. That is why, as always, the Forum for Democracy advocates reception in the region. There are many countries near Ukraine, where, for example, Ukrainian is recognised as a minority language, where culture is very similar to that of Ukraine. Have those people find a temporary home there. Let those people stay there temporarily, so that they can return safely to their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u150	Thank you, Mr. Jansen. Then we go to Mr Cedar, Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the start of the Russian attack, millions of Ukrainians have fled. About 40,000 of them have arrived in the Netherlands. For the most part, these are women. Most of them have children, too. Many of those who have come last have experienced close-up shelling and fighting. At the same time, we are dealing in the Netherlands with an asylum shelter that beeps and creaks. Nevertheless, I congratulate the Secretary of State for everything that has already been done and arranged for Ukrainian refugees in these circumstances. Of course there are concerns, and with that there are as many action points. I'm gonna try to get all the rulers to work. They might like that, too. I have just mentioned all the circumstances from which many refugees come. Besides a roof over their heads and living money, they also need psychosocial care. Access to psychosocial care and to regular medical care still needs to be improved. Not everyone can take out health insurance. Besides a shortage of general practitioners and interpreters, there are also administrative obstacles. We should not bother the doctors, but we should not bother the refugees. Do the rulers agree with that? How do we tackle these short-term bottlenecks, including the point that there are people who are not yet able to take out health insurance? After all, people also just get sick and as time passes, distressing situations can arise. I say "managers," because there are five of them. That gives us a problem right away. Municipalities have been given an important task in care and care. We're dealing with a lot of different departments. They must all be consulted, for example on the reimbursement of costs. There's no other way? Can't there be a single point of contact for municipalities? I have a motion on that. I also understand that private care is not reimbursed by the Empire, but that municipalities have to cough it up themselves, while municipal care is reimbursed and there is a living allowance for those residents. This could lead to local authorities dissuading private care. I wonder if it's true that there's a difference. If so, does the person responsible see any discrepancy in that? Mr. Chairman. In his letter of 30 March, the Secretary of State explained in detail why he did not opt for a temporary residence permit for Ukrainian displaced persons. The Christian Union is not necessarily in favour of a temporary residence permit, but perhaps there are practical objections now, because there is no residence permit. We just talked about the ID. Reference has been made to the legal tuition fees that some students face in September. We talked about care. It's all cases that can be solved with a temporary residence permit. I do not yet see any concrete proposals to resolve these problems, which, according to the Christian Union, brings the alternative on the table. I would like to hear from the directors how all practical objections can be resolved by not granting a temporary residence permit. We are critical of that. I think there's going to be a motion in the Chamber. We want to be able to weigh them well in the light of the answer. Mr. Chairman. I just talked about the fugitive students. Without a licence, they are not eligible for study funding and legal tuition fees. Studying becomes priceless for them. How do we fix this? Or does the cabinet now declare that those who cannot afford it will no longer be able to study in the Netherlands from September onwards? I like to hear that. I just talked about a full ID. Again, I would like to hear what solutions the person responsible for the administration sees. With regard to work, I call for great attention to be paid to possible cases of labour exploitation. Has the Department of Social Affairs come across any cases of this? I would like to ask the same thing about cases of trafficking in human beings. For Ukrainian children it is very important that they receive Dutch language lessons to quickly find connection. How does the Secretary of State intend to provide for this? Mr President, I will conclude with one final question. We hear that there are considerable differences in the way municipalities take care of care. For example, refugees end up in one place in a former prison, while they go elsewhere in a former office building, where they are involved in its redevelopment. Can a minimum standard be introduced or can municipalities share best practices with each other? I'd like to introduce these to the rulers. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u152	Thank you. A final question from Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u153	It is very important that we arrange proper shelter for Ukrainians. At the same time, you must also avoid crooked eyes, for example in the situations I mentioned in my term, that people are taken out of their homes to house Ukrainians. That seems a little weird. I also hear stories from municipalities that the living money for people in debt restructuring is €50 per week and for Ukrainians €60. Can you imagine that could lead to crooked eyes? Shouldn't we straighten that out, preferably at the highest level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u154	I can imagine that it could lead to shaky faces, as Mr Van Dijk points out. I would therefore like to hear the Minister's reasons for this, because I do not have a clear explanation as to why these discrepancies and differences exist. About homes I have a motion ready, because I think we really need to invest in temporary flex houses. We see that municipalities sometimes want to do so, but face practical or legal obstacles. I'd like to take it away. That is the question I put to the Minister for Housing at this extra time. I think it would be a temporary solution, not only for refugees but also for homeless people and people who are placed out of their homes and that we really need to invest in temporary flex housing. We must give the municipalities every opportunity to do so and remove obstacles.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u157	Then I give the floor to Mr Markuszower of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With as many as five heads of government, we are debating the reception of Ukrainian refugees today. We as PVV say: if Ukraine's neighbours can no longer cope, then we in the Netherlands can make temporary and limited room for the reception of Ukrainian women and children by stopping the influx of all those foreign invaders from Africa and that dark Middle East, by throwing all those illegals out of our country and sending the Syrians and other safe people back to where they come from. Despite the violence of war in Ukraine, it is remarkable that this Chamber and a substantial part of the cabinet are freeing up all day to talk about this problem, while at the same time not paying attention to the problems of the ordinary Netherlands. If my group chairman, Mr Wilders, asks for a debate to talk about purchasing power and to propose solutions to improve it, then none of the coalition will give at home. Then the cabinet does not even want to talk about it and the President of this Chamber does not even want to schedule the debate. But we are here in this Chamber, and I say this very clearly to all the leaders who are sitting here today, who have been elected and appointed to solve the problems of the Dutch. Because in recent decades the Netherlands has been haunted with the wrong foreigners, who parasitize on our welfare state by not working on a masse, who eat our welfare jars, who make our streets unsafe and unsavory, who force the common Dutchman into the housing market, who undermines the quality of education and which costs the Dutch State at least 20 billion each year, we have a huge problem, such a big problem that we can now barely adequately, limited and temporarily offer Ukrainian women and children the helping hand, such a big problem that as a government we are barely there for our own people and hardly anything can do about the problems of the ordinary Dutch. That is why I say today, as the PVV has said for many years, that the open border policy is destroying the Netherlands completely. The Kaagsecretary of Justice and Security, who is responsible for the Dutch asylum and immigration policy, says that everyone around the world can apply for asylum and that all real refugees actually get it. But, Mr President, do you know how many real refugees the world currently knows? That's about 85 million. That's the Netherlands times factor five. And do you know how many migrants from Africa and the Middle East still want to come to our region in the coming years? That's hundreds of millions, if not 1 billion people. I can't do that. This Secretary of State, the Kaagsecretary, carries out the agenda of Sigrid Kaag and GroenLinks. In all areas, asylum policy is being made more flexible. This week, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security indicated that the conditions for family reunification could be relaxed, allowing the number of status holders to triple. But the real death trap to the Dutchman is still handing out the Secretary of State. Even before the summer, he comes up with a bill to force municipalities to house asylum seekers from Africa and the Middle East. If the Netherlands wants to be a country where its own inhabitants can have a normal life, where there are enough homes, where no child with hunger has to go to bed, where it is safe on the streets, also for our women and children, where we can give good education to our children and where Islam has not made everything that is light dark here, if the Netherlands wants to stay in the Netherlands, then we really have to stop admitting asylum seekers from Africa and the Middle East immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u159	Thank you. You mentioned "the Kaagsecretary" twice. I think you meant the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u160	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u161	I just wanted to correct that for the Acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Chairman. A point of order. I'd like to have that title in the Acts. Because it is important that the Netherlands knows that this Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u163	We're getting along nicely. That's what we agreed on in this room. It is the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and you are Mr Markuszower. That's for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u164	I knew all that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u165	I've listened very carefully. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas from BBB. She also gets all the attention from field K.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u166	I'm gonna let them chat for a while. I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u167	Go ahead, Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u168	Mr. Chairman. Citizens in the Netherlands. With the miserable images we see every day, it is not surprising that millions of Ukrainians have sought their security in Europe and also in the Netherlands. We always call out: first shelter in the region. And today we are the region. It is very nice that people are working for the Ukrainians who are coming here, but taking seven people, complete with young children, into their homes, is quite unwise. War fugitives aren't just a couple of cozy little lodgers. The cabinet must also be clear to all those good-willed Dutch people who do not realize what they are getting themselves into. People face newcomers from a different culture, sometimes harmed by war traumas. It has a huge impact on your home situation and your family. When people conclude after two weeks that they all think it's a bit much, the Ukrainians have a new trauma. There is also the risk of Ukrainian women being exploited in their precarious situation. If there is a good view of the situation in which Ukrainians end up, I ask the Minister. What does the Cabinet do to protect vulnerable women? This also applies to the women in the azc's. We hear stories from Ukrainian women who were afraid to sleep at night and took turns watching because they felt attacked and threatened by male asylum seekers from other countries. That's right, I'm asking the Minister. And how is women's safety guaranteed in azc's at all? Mr. Chairman. Almost the entire House of Representatives stood here a few weeks ago applauding for Zelensky. I found that rather uncomfortable, to be honest. Apart from the compassion I have with Ukraine and its people, I do believe that we should maintain our objectivity in order to continue to make balanced choices here and not close our eyes to any problems that may come to us. Because it's not all cake and cake. For example, a high school teacher told me last week that problems were encountered in teaching Ukrainian children. This was about children who are difficult to come along with and even about a number of incidents of racism: girls with headscarfs who are being called names and throwing bananas at students with dark skin. Of course not all Ukrainian children do this, but apparently it does. I am only asking this question, in the hope of getting an answer to that. Is the Minister aware of this? We have to name this and treat it, not shut up. How are teachers supervised in this and can they find somewhere with their concerns? Are these concerns taken seriously? Schools with newcomers are under heavy pressure and the co-ordination body LOWAN has to do it with a man and a half to staff. I would like to hear how the cabinet intends to organise this education in the longer term. And is the Minister prepared to suspend until the summer holidays diploma requirements for Ukrainian teachers so that they can stand in front of the classroom, facilitate the transition for Ukrainian students and thus ensure safety in schools? The explanation of behavior, the vog, for Ukrainian teachers is another problem. Does the Minister have any idea of speeding up the Vog procedures? I also ask the Minister if there is room in the budget to temporarily expand the LOWAN. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the emergency bill. This allows the cabinet to have far-reaching powers in the reception of refugees. But state emergency law must be something that is really only used in the most extreme cases, for example in a violent revolution or in the event of an invading power. The expropriation of property, property of people, is totally out of proportion to the situation we are in right now. BBB is therefore against compulsion. The cabinet has immediately activated this right, but has to submit the bill to the House of Representatives soon thereafter. This still hasn't happened. We've been three weeks. We need to be able to see the end date that the cabinet wishes to apply to this emergency. BBB does not want situations such as the covide emergency laws, where the House of Representatives has to decide afterwards on past periods. When can the Chamber expect this bill? I have now understood that the Council of State's opinion is also in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u169	Thank you, Mrs Van der Plas. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u170	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. It's always a bit of an uncomfortable position when you're the last one to stand in the way of colleagues for a pleasant lunch. Anyway, I'm gonna have to do with it. It's been almost two months since Russia invaded Ukraine. The footage coming in is getting worse every day. Since then, the municipalities and the implementation organisations have been working day and night to organise accommodations for refugees from Ukraine. Many individuals also volunteer to open their homes and hearts. This is indeed accompanied by all kinds of risks and comments, but I pay tribute to them. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is using an emergency right to get the shelter around. My group makes very critical comments about the grip on this horse's medicine. There is broad support for the reception of these people, and the cabinet moves towards unlocking the road to coercion. In the case of non-Ukrainian asylum seekers, the Secretary of State now also wants to introduce a law requiring municipalities to provide reception services. Our question is: what are the cabinet's considerations to trade voluntary cooperation for the option of coercion? Then I find an answer in the sense of "this is at the request of..."..... from Commissioners, mayors; mind you, unelected directors........................................................................................................................................................................................... That can't be an argument. The People's Movement Act has already been partially activated. I refer to the question: what analysis is the use of this law? What was the urgency for that? Why didn't the debate with the Chamber begin? It is stated that the emergency right will not be used beyond what is strictly necessary. When and under what circumstances, according to the Cabinet, is it no longer necessary? Municipalities call for the unorthodox approach to be exchanged as soon as possible for a democratically authorised decision-making process. In short, when do municipal councils get the last word again? The cabinet now sees no reason for moving its own population or moving buildings, so we can read. But under what circumstances does the cabinet consider that to be justified? Is the cabinet prepared to come up with an escalation ladder for further deployment of this law? Mr. Chairman. The pressure on the asylum chain is enormous. We have been calling for years: invest in that chain; ensure a resilient and robust chain. It just didn't work out and it just didn't. It was just being pushed forward. Now we look forward to an approach that will be shared with the Chamber in June. Well, we'll just have to wait and see. In any case, I call on the Cabinet to speed up its approach to the Implementation Agenda Flexibilisation Asylum Chain. Take a serious look at the associated price tag, as requested by the motion adopted by my hand. Finally, a number of questions. Mr Van der Staaij has asked written questions about access to care, basic care, for Ukrainians. It's good that now there seems to be more direction on that access. Work is being done to connect the grant scheme medically necessary care for uninsured persons to the health care provider's declaration system. The notification obligation is also suspended. Question: When will that be arranged? Does the Minister agree with me that the living allowance scheme for Ukrainian refugees should be aligned with the welfare allowance for Dutch residents? Finally, how far do we see the practical and financial support for private care, as private individuals are only supported through the payment of living money? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u171	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. This brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-21-tweedekamer-4.u172	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.05 p.m. Then we start by saying goodbye to Mrs Ploumen, PvdA.
