ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	We shall now proceed to the two-minute Maritiem debate, which took place on 24 November last year. The first speaker is Mr Van der Molen, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As your new spokesman, Infrastructure and Water State, I'm allowed to take over. So it's all beautifully programmed again that we're both here. I also hope for a very good cooperation with all the colleagues I meet here and, of course, not least with the ruler. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group is cautiously positive about the letter sent to the Chamber by the Minister on Monday about the future of the Lange Jaap lighthouse near Den Helder, although I must say that it seems to me that a lighthouse that is still on the brink of collapse might be saved at the next moment. The conclusion must be, as the CDA leader in Den Helder, Harmen Krul, told me, that Rijkswaterstaat does have the safety function of the lighthouse in its fingers but not guaranteeing its monumental function. And it has to be different. The CDA Group is committed to maintaining and restoring the Long Jaap and, if necessary, to rebuilding it. Can the Minister also state here that he is in favour of this goal? Two more questions for the Minister. In answering the written questions, the Minister confessed that Rijkswaterstaat did not follow the conservation monument framework. And then, in the opinion of the CDA Group, you choose neglect. What steps does the Minister take to prevent repetition in the future? We have more lighthouses of the type Lange Jaap in the Netherlands, namely in Westkapelle and Breskens and on Scheveningen and Vlieland. As far as we are concerned, there is an urgent need for an inventory if it is not already running. Can the Minister, in so far as this is not yet done, initiate this procedure and inform the Chamber of the matter? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. On the side of the Chamber, the second speaker is Mr Tjeerd de Groot, who speaks on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following the CDA, D66 has asked how it could have happened with the Lange Jaap. Hence the next motion I'll table with the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the 150-year-old monumental lighthouse Kijkduin (Kijkduin) de Lange Jaap (Kijkduin) has had the status of national monument since 1988;]] [[whereas since then Rijkswaterstaat has neglected its duty of care, despite continuing signals about the deteriorating state of the lighthouse;]] [[having regard to the fact that there is considerable delay in maintenance of our hydraulic works;]] [[Considering the state's monumental status, the social importance as well as the status as historical cultural heritage of the lighthouse Kijkduin;]] [[Whereas the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State has stated that he is committed to maintaining the lighthouse Kijkduin;]] [[calls on the government to clarify the fate of the lighthouse Kijkduin in the shortest possible time and to provide a replica in the event of decommissioning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tjeerd de Groot and Mr Van der Molen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-341]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Then I have two more questions about the storm this week and the incident that has occurred with the Julietta D. We are, of course, going to a situation where the North Sea is getting very full of wind farms. That is, of course, good news, but that also means something for safety, especially when ships are driven by an inadequate anchoring procedure or otherwise. Is the Minister thinking about how to increase the safety of anchorages by mooring buoys or otherwise? That's what we like to hear. Then the advice to choose the northern route over the Wadden instead of the southern route in the event of a storm or more than 4.5 meters altitude. This following the MSC Zoe. Last night, a ship, the CSCL Pacific Ocean, took a ship larger than the MSC Zoe, despite the advice to take the northern route, given through the NATEX, still took the southern route. The ship's been slowed down to six knots. That's very slow for a ship like that. Maybe it hit the ground. What is the advice worth if it is literally beaten in the wind this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. The next speaker is Mrs Bouchallichh. She speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, during the committee debate, there was a lot of attention for degassing sailing. Health damage and environmental factors are very important to take into account. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fertilising degassing is very burdensome for humans and the environment, but in practice it is still very common in "green areas', which have been identified on a map by the ILT;]] [[noting that the European Convention for the Carriage of Dangerous Substances by Inland Waterways (ADN) states that sailing degassing must not take place in densely populated areas and near bridges, locks and their ports;]] [[noting that the definition of densely populated areas in the ADN has not been defined and that the ILT itself has identified on the basis of CBS information where the densely populated areas are along waterways and that this classification is therefore in fact arbitrary;]] [[noting that the risks to public health and potential environmental damage have not been taken into account in the ADN and that these risks have not been identified by the government;]] [[Whereas in these green areas, including in Zeeland and Flevoland, there is great concern about the effects of degassing on public health and the environment;]] [[calls on the government to stop the degassing on the green waterways for the time being and first to investigate the effects of uncontrolled degassing on health and the environment before deciding on opening up (temporarily) to uncontrolled degassing on the green waterways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Bouchallichh and Mr Alkaya.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-342]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	Then I also have a question that is actually in line with D66's question about the storm of the past period. So I'll be brief. Is there any more clarity about the damage caused by this storm? Why are there no tow vessels at orange code ready to manage such a situation quickly? What's protocol? We would like to hear a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Alkaya. He is speaking on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr President. It has been two and a half months since we had the committee debate. In that we had a good discussion on a number of issues. That was with another ruler. A welcome to this minister. He's the new ruler on this subject. I think it's my first debate with him. The first debate of many, I suspect. I have tabled a motion with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to combat degassing, but this can only be done if the inland waterway vessels have an alternative. At the moment there are only two degassing plants throughout the Netherlands. There's gotta be another way. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still insufficient degassing facilities to provide a working alternative to the degassing of inland waterway vessels;]] [[Whereas tests have been started with degassing plants, but this development is not fast enough to allow large-scale application;]] [[Considers that sailing degassing should stop as soon as possible and that this can only be done if inland waterway vessels have a working alternative;]] [[calls on the Government to actively support organisations seeking funding for such installations, including advice and co-financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Bouchallichh.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31409-343]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	I give the floor to the Minister for his appreciation of three motions and his response to a number of questions that have been asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with the questions that have been asked. The questions about the Lange Jaap will be included in the motion in a moment. I'll start the collision with the barge Julietta D last Monday. Mrs. Bouchallichh asked if there was any more information on the damage. I can't say anything about that right now. The investigation is ongoing. As you also heard from the media yesterday, the captain was apprehended. So we really need to wait for the results of further investigation. In addition, there was the question: why weren't there any tug ships ready? The Windpark Hollandse Kust Zuid is still under construction. As of next summer, a tugboat will be there 24/7. In other wind farms, for example in the Windpark Borssele, there is already about 24/7 tugboat. It is also good practice to see who can be the first to be on the spot in the event of such a collision. In this case, it appeared that a commercial salvager could have arrived earlier. So it went straight out. In this connection, Mr De Groot asked for safety at anchorages. The captain must take precautions himself when his ship is empty and wind force 9 or 10 is predicted. The Coast Guard has tugboats. But as I just said, this wind farm will only have a tugboat from the summer ahead. The captain must also take all precautions, including in the framework of good seamanship. Last week, in the Wadden Committee debate, I indicated that we cannot impose an obligation around the northern and southern routes north of the Wadden. At the same time, the advice of the Coast Guard is taken very seriously by shipping. The Coast Guard indicates that at least four of the five large container ships follow the advice in practice. Eventually, the captain remains ultimately responsible here in the framework of good seamanship. Last week I went into more detail. I assume that we will be discussing more often the extent to which we can take further action there. For the moment, we cannot impose this obligation within the framework of international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	There is an interruption by Mr De Groot. I ask you to be very brief; you only have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	I understand. I think it would be a good idea for this ship to have a visitor. It is now located in the port of Rotterdam. I am actually curious as an inspection I would also be curious to see what the considerations were to take that southern route and to slow it down. Maybe the ship hit the ground. It seems to me to be a reason for inspection, also so that such a captain knows that the advice is not without obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	This is, of course, avenging that I and the committee debate have not done and that I am also working in a very small way. So I don't really know if we can do this. Let me agree with the Chamber that I look at the possibilities in this area. Then I can just get that information. Then I'll tell you later if you can do that or if you've gotten anything out of it. Then I come to the motions that have been tabled. The motion in part No. 341 is about the preservation of the Long Jaap. A few questions have also been asked about this. Mr Van der Molen actually asked: how did it come to this and what do we do, above all, to prevent repetition? My predecessor on this dossier, Minister Visser, also expressed regret in the autumn that the Lange Jaap has been able to escape the attention of those responsible for many years. I'll repeat that to her. I did the same in the region last Monday. It's just that a lot of things didn't go well here. Over the years there have been inspections every time, but then little or nothing has been done with the recommendations. We must learn a great deal from that. We ourselves are still in the dark when it comes to the Lange Jaap during a number of periods. This concerns why certain inspections have not been followed up. My predecessor has already instructed the sg of the Ministry to dive into that further and to re-examine the whole decision-making process and all the underlying documents. As soon as that becomes more apparent, I will of course inform the Chamber. At the same time, it was decided to inspect the other lighthouses, the other monuments, on the basis of the Lange Jaap case last autumn. The first preliminary results are that we have not found situations like the Lange Jaap, but a further inspection is taking place in a number of places. The commitment made by my predecessor to involve the Chamber step by step, I am following her and following her. So as soon as there's more news, I'll report it to the Chamber. Then there's the motion on the Lange Jaap. I would also like to say one thing in advance. Mr Van der Molen also said that the tower is on the brink of collapse one minute and seems to be saved at the next. I would just like to point out where we are now, because it really goes step by step and last Monday there was a first small point of light. In any case, where the tower's surroundings had to be hermetically enclosed because of its safety and the risk of falling over, the experts have now found that the tower can be inspected with a drone. But that really is a tiny point of light. That investigation must show whether the tower can be accessed by humans at all. The word "saved" is called. In that respect, I would like to reduce expectations. I sincerely hope so, and my whole will is to preserve the tower. Ultimately, it is safe and can also be technically realistic. That being said, I come to the motion. In the end, I would advise your Chamber to leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I would like to say something about the operative part. The operative part says 'to provide clarity in the shortest possible time', but 'the shortest possible time' can really take a while. I fear this will be a process of months, if not years. If that drone goes in soon, it can, of course, make all the recordings in a day or so, but the interpretation of the data and the images it produces really has to be done by experts. It does not therefore mean that the next step can be taken at the end of the day. It will take a while, but every moment there is news, I will inform your Chamber. Now that the motion also says 'in the case of decommissioning to provide for a replica', I hope that the conclusion of this debate is not that we are heading towards dismantling. Everything is aimed at seeing if we can keep the tower. I can see the headlines again, so that's why I'm saying it so literally. On that part of the operative part, I say: if the conclusion is that dismantling is ultimately the only option, then the motion asks to provide for a replica. At the same time, the agreements are also regional, especially with the municipality of Den Helder, with the residents, with the National Cultural Heritage Agency and with the participation of the surrounding area to see what we can do. I also want to go through that route carefully. This is a very digital pronunciation. If you give me the opportunity to include the others in that scenario, who may have conflicting opinions about it or any other opinion than that it should be a replica, then I would like to give the 'judgement chamber' motion with due regard for that explanation. I see the petitioner nodding. Then the motion to part No. 342 over sailing degassing. The committee debate held an executive debate on this subject. I suspect that Mrs Bouchallichh, with all the sympathy I have for the approach of the motion, already feels what I am going to say, namely that I should discourage the motion in this form. This is a case in which both the Dutch Government and the Dutch Parliament have been united for years and believes that this degassing should be stopped as soon as possible. At the same time, I do not have the opportunity to introduce it in this way. Like my predecessor, I am very disappointed that the ratification of the treaty in which we agreed to ban degassing has been delayed in some of the Member States concerned. The Netherlands and Germany have ratified it, but Switzerland, for example, has not yet ratified it. I'm afraid it's gonna take a while. Like my predecessor, I will endeavour to continue to appeal to other governments in the countries concerned. The route proposed by Mrs Bouchallichh in the motion, namely through the ADN, is not passable. It is true that you have to set a number of criteria yourself, but the aim of the ADN Treaty is not to ban degassing. Here's the thing. If we were to use this route and draw up such strict criteria that there is nowhere else to be done in the Netherlands, we would have another discussion with neighbouring countries, because de facto it will then take place in Germany, where the Treaty has not yet entered into force. There are the same issues with the construction of the degassing plants. We then turn the problem into a neighbouring country, which, moreover, has done its best and has ratified the Treaty and has no opportunity to fill the gap that we then leave. But everything is aimed at squeezing the other countries to ratify the Treaty as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Bouchallichh. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	The Minister also pointed out that for years there has been talk of "stopping as soon as possible." I am concerned about the interests of the citizens in those areas. I do not want to repeat the committee debate here. We have discussed this extensively, among other things. I very much hope that we will be able to come up with other solutions and that we will not actually have the same conversation again in a few months' time. I hope that the Minister will make a commitment to this and that we will be able to discuss a different kind of progress in a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	Absolutely. The Chamber and the government are unanimous in their agreement on this. I do what's in my power. Furthermore, Minister Visser recently addressed the French Minister, who is also working to speed it up. Unfortunately, that CDNI Treaty says that the last Member State must have ratified before it can enter into force. I am trying to do this, but I am also trying to keep expectations down a bit, as was also discussed in the committee debate. The same applies to the motion in part No. 343. I also have a great deal of sympathy for that, but I am still clinging to the word 'co-financing' in the operative part. That's why I have to discourage this motion. For me, too, the polluter pays principle applies here. This means that in the end the degasification plants must be built on the part of the shippers and the market players. What the government can do is indeed give advice and ask fellow governments to think carefully about the locations and to put the permit in order. To be honest, I wouldn't want to cross the Rubicon by drawing this financially towards us as a government. It is ultimately a matter of the market players. The commitment made by Minister Visser in the committee debate to look again with the shippers at what we can speed up and whether the social pressure is felt a little bit more to at least provide for degassing facilities before the Treaty enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thanks to the Minister. I see that Mr Alkaya has another interruption. Very briefly, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I get that. At the same time, there are already a lot of opportunities to do this kind of co-financing. I know that, for example, project proposals have been made within the framework of the National Growth Fund to promote inland waterway transport. I'm going to replace the word "among other things" with "for example" and hope for a different judgment. If that is not the case, then at least that is what I mean: that we are not going to free up any extra money, but that we are taking on the responsibility, inter alia, to provide advice and co-financing which already exist to ensure that these degassing plants get off the ground as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	If the petitioner explains the motion in such a way that it says "for example, with advice, for example in search of existing possibilities and for example co-financing," if I have that space, then I could give the motion judgment Chamber, especially as a confirmation of the fact that Chamber and Cabinet are pulling on the same side of the ropes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	The motion has been changed and has been judged Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	The Alkaya/Bouchallikh motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still insufficient degassing facilities to provide a working alternative to the degassing of inland waterway vessels;]] [[Whereas tests have been started with degassing plants, but this development is not fast enough to allow large-scale application;]] [[Considers that sailing degassing should stop as soon as possible and that this can only be done if inland waterway vessels have a working alternative;]] [[calls on the Government to actively support organisations seeking funding for such installations, for example with advice, for example in search of existing opportunities and for example co-financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She's getting No. , was No. 343 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	Finally, thank you for the kind words of welcome in this Chamber. I look forward to a fruitful cooperation in the coming cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	We're gonna make a change and then we're gonna move on to the two-minute debate LIMC.
