ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the Supplementary Tax Purchasing Power Act 2022, Section 36088. A word of welcome to the Secretary of State for Finance. Good to see you again. We have 14 speakers from the Chamber, so we are busy today. I hope that we can keep the number of overlaps with yesterday's debate to a minimum, but that is only a modest wish of the President. I see that Mr Nijboer does not agree. His speaking time has just been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Van Baarle of the DENK Group. He has indicated that he will speak to us for ten minutes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The prices in the Netherlands are running out. We are facing a record inflation rate of 8.7% this year. People pay blue at the gas pump, where a liter costs almost €2.50 again. Energy tariffs are hugely higher than they were a year ago. Prices for food and other messages continue to rise. Prices are rising all around us. That is why people in the country are now looking at a huge loss of purchasing power. What does this look like in practice? What does this mean, for example, for a taxi driver, a cleaner, a mailman? That means about €100 in the minus because of a higher energy bill. This means many euros every week in the minus because of messages that have become around 30% to sometimes 50% more expensive per product. Mr. Chairman. It's a battlefield. Everyone's gonna notice this. This positive and balanced purchasing power development, which the government and the coalition have repeatedly promised, has gone a long way out of the picture. The cabinet does come up with measures, but it is always too late and ultimately too little. Too late, because the signs of rapidly rising prices were much earlier, but they were only picked up with great delay. In the last year we saw these rising prices, but we had to wait again for measures to be taken. The current situation is referred back to Princess' Day. Why do I keep asking the Secretary of State for this delay? Why is it that, as in other countries, intervention is not taking place earlier? Why keep pushing that over, when people in the country need something now, need help now? What's with the pushover? Mr. Chairman. The package now before us is too little. According to the Central Planning Bureau, we are now in between the base scenario and the dark scenario. Probably because of this many households are still in big payment problems, people who have to leave everything that's fun, to survive. They're just gonna have to cut like hell if this goes on like this. That includes current policies. Many of the measures proposed have simply evaporated. Take for example the petrol prices, which are now just moving towards record height again. Does the Secretary of State share these conclusions and how does the Secretary of State respond to that worrying conclusion of the Central Planning Bureau that we are in between the base scenario and the dark scenario, and that we are even going with the current policy towards a scenario in which many households simply have to make extremely painful choices? Mr. Chairman. So these purchasing power measures we are discussing today are just a tissue for bleeding. The bleeding goes on and the cloth is too small to stop blood loss in the longer term. We must therefore prevent people in the Netherlands from drowning in this bloodbath of ever-increasing prices and costs. Mr. Chairman. The current proposal reduces VAT on energy from 21% to 9% and excise duty on fuel, petrol, by 21%. My first question to the Secretary of State is: why exactly was these exact percentages chosen? What's behind this? My second question to the Secretary of State is when we can look forward to the agreed balancing framework for working with policy decisions. My third question concerns generic versus specific support. It is important to take measures to support people with lower incomes and a risk of payment problems. The Central Planning Bureau also indicates this. This becomes all the more important because we are supposedly moving towards the dark scenario of the Central Planning Bureau. Can the Secretary of State share more information on what specific alternatives have been investigated to target people with payment problems and lower income? Why should these instruments not be suitable in the short term or inappropriate in terms of implementation? Does the Secretary of State share that the current package is not sufficiently specific to these people? How will the government, preferably in the short term, work towards a more specific form of support for these people who, according to the government, do work? When can we see any of that? Mr. Chairman. DENK makes one exception to the importance of targeted aid. Those are the gas prices. This bill now provides for a temporary reduction of €0.17 in excise duty, which has already been introduced. But what do we see now? People just pay almost €2.50 to the pump again. It doesn't work enough; it just evaporated again. The Netherlands is number two or three in petrol prices worldwide. And there's really only one reason for that: the government, with the absurdly high taxes on petrol. Dutch drivers are just Mark Rutte's ATM. Every time someone fills up, about €1.25 per litre will end up in the pockets of the prime minister's state treasury. That's why DENK says: lower the excise duty on petrol and diesel. Do what the countries around us do. Go to the minimum rate for that excise duty. Surely it can no longer be explained that Belgium and Germany have so much cheaper fuel and that it saves almost €0.50 per litre to fill up in Germany? Why are Dutch drivers so badly hunted for costs? The taxi drivers and other people who depend on their cars for work don't pull this off, do they? They can't afford this, can they? Isn't this what's killing them? Why not intervene, I'll ask the Secretary of State. Those petrol taxes should be much lower than in the proposal that is now before us. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has already announced through the Azarkan motion that the differences in excise duties with neighbouring countries must be closely monitored and, if necessary, acted on. That moment seems to me right now. Does the Secretary of State share this? I therefore also have an amendment in preparation, which puts excise duties in the Netherlands at that European minimum level. It must be done once and for all that people in the Netherlands pay blue at the gas pump. People don't like that anymore. Mr. Chairman. Then the VAT reduction on electricity and gas. The intention is, of course, that the energy companies will pass that VAT reduction on to the consumer, but are we sure that they will? The government also indicates that this is an uncertainty. The cabinet indicated a while back that it would consult with energy companies about this. My question to the Secretary of State is: is there any outcome of this consultation? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? Finally, the €800 energy surcharge. Are the reports true that only half of the people who are entitled to this supplement, who have had it? What's taking so long? The decision was taken a while ago. What steps does the government take to ensure that people actually apply for this energy surcharge? How does the government support the municipalities to ensure that people who are entitled to it also get an image from the municipalities? Because, of course, what should not be done is that this much-needed support should remain on the shelf unnecessarily and that people who are entitled to it and should be helped should not receive that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. This was your contribution, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr President, as a second speaker, I did not think that the grass would be mowed away at my feet, but that is what is happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	I understand that you will waive your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	No, not at all. But I'm gonna hit the point of excise duty on petrol. In the meantime, it is better to drive from The Hague to Germany to refuel there. Yeah, absolutely, it depends on how big your tank is, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	And your question is? Don't you want to respond to the audience? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna be here tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	But the audience responds to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	Then you shouldn't pay attention. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	I'm not paying attention anymore. My question is this. If I have a motion to at least harmonise petrol excise duty with our neighbouring countries, do I have the support of DENK?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr Van Haga's conclusion is, of course, justified. The fact that there are a number of reactions from the audience of people who react a bit painfully to his input has to do with the fact that Mr Van Haga simply raises a point...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	...that the motorist is abandoned by this coalition. If Mr Van Haga has such a motion, I myself have it in preparation, and we will certainly support it. Maybe we can table a motion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful. It's taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	I think that would be great. If people do come on a bike here, they don't know the pain of people who really have to go to work by car. So we're gonna do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	Clear. The next speaker was Mr Van Haga of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the Supplementary Tax Purchasing Power Act 2022, a law that was not sent to the Chamber until 28 April when the package was already there at the beginning of March. That is, of course, extremely slow, but it is a good thing that the package is finally in a law here, because the price increases are falling. Mr. Chairman. You can actually say that the effect of this package has already been overtaken by reality. This is not surprising either, with an average inflation rate of 8.7% a year according to De Nederlandsche Bank. More and more people can't afford their energy bills and their messages anymore. Fuel has never been more expensive. A liter of petrol for more than €2.50 is not normal, especially if you have to take your car to work. That is obviously difficult for many people to imagine here, but three quarters of the Netherlands do have that problem. The CPB indicates that 1.2 million households are facing financial difficulties. And of course this package offers some relief, but it is a drop in the ocean, especially if De Nederlandsche Bank calculates that inflation is expected to be 3.9% in 2023 and another 2.4% in 2024. That is why the following question to the Secretary of State: does the cabinet itself consider that this package provides sufficient purchasing power support to Dutch households? Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs are also hit hard. BVNL hears from entrepreneurs that it is no longer profitable for many people to undertake while energy and fuel prices are so high. For some it is even more advantageous to drastically reduce or even stop production altogether. After two years of disproportionate corona measures, entrepreneurs can really not bear this burden anymore. So here too the question: does the cabinet think that it provides sufficient support to entrepreneurs? What are we going to do to prevent the bankruptcy wave and to stop companies' exodus? As far as BVNL is concerned, the cabinet must do much more to improve the business environment. Mr. Chairman. As I mentioned earlier, fuel prices are at record levels, despite the reduction in excise duties. European legislation indicates that excise duties should not be below a certain level. We have not yet reached that level and we still have an exorbitant tax on petrol and diesel. We pay €0.65 for each litre of petrol and the minimum rate is €0.35.9, a rate that more and more countries apply temporarily. The difference with Germany, where you can refuel for around €2, is so big in the meantime I just told you that you can almost drive from The Hague to Germany for gas and are still cheaper off. Can the Secretary of State state state whether he wishes to make use of this opportunity? Does the Secretary of State also want to look at a tax reduction on fuel? The VAT on the energy bill is reduced, so why doesn't that also apply to the pump? Would we have just had a brief exchange of views with Mr Van Baarle of DENK, at least to harmonise fuel taxes with our neighbouring countries, so that you do not have these great differences? Mr. Chairman. With regard to BVNL, more can be done to reduce energy costs, firstly the VAT rate on energy, which now goes from 21% to 9%. That's about $120 for six months. For some households that is not even enough to cover the extra costs for a single month. A reduction in the VAT rate to 5% offers some additional relief, so why not just a quick reduction to 5%? And why is the VAT rate on energy 21% when it is actually a primary need for life? In addition, the decoupling of district heating from the gas price takes far too long. That's really bureaucracy at the top. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State what he's gonna do about this. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory statement, I referred to a certain sentence, namely that the government does not have too much opportunity to dampen the rise in energy prices. I have just indicated a number of possibilities on behalf of BVNL, but there is another option that BVNL often points out to the cabinet. I also said it to Mr Rutte yesterday: in Groningen lies the largest gas field in Europe. The cabinet pretends it doesn't exist. That is a big problem, but there is no technical problem there. Last week, TNO gave a technical briefing to the EZK committee on the different options to replace Russian gas, for example. The choice made here is extremely relevant to our purchasing power. We're going to switch from Groningen gas to LNG. TNO indicated the difference in costs between a cubic meter LNG and a cubic meter gas from Groningen. That difference is shocking. A tub of gas from Groningen costs €0.05, a tub of gas LNG, liquid natural gas, costs €1, which is twenty times as much. That's not gonna happen at all. No one understands or knows that, but this is going to be a huge attack on the energy bill of citizens and businesses. It may be an uncomfortable truth, but it's technically possible to do all that safely. We can't get around the Groningen gas anymore. If we can continue to win gas safely in Groningen, this can of course improve the purchasing power of the Dutch. In doing so, we naturally take into account the Groningers by generously compensating them and acting proactively. You can apply all kinds of things, like water injection, nitrogen injection and CO injection. For the people who believe we have to get rid of CO and nitrogen, we have created a sort of win-win situation. It is technically possible, it only takes political courage. Technically and financially, all signals are green, only the cabinet is very much on red. A number of questions to the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State agree with BVNL that the Groningen gas can be technically safely produced and thus contribute to the purchasing power of the Dutch? Is the cabinet willing to take a serious look at the continuation of the production of the Groninger gas field? Can the Secretary of State indicate whether a further reduction in excise duty on fuel and VAT on energy can be financed with these revenues? I have not even mentioned the possibilities offered by the coal-fired power stations if production capacity is not limited to the arbitrary 35% on which they are now operating. Here again the question of whether the cabinet would seriously consider lifting this decadent production restriction. Finally, Mr President. This amendment concerns a number of temporary measures, which will disappear by 2023. I wonder if the situation would be better and an increase to the old level could be carried by households and entrepreneurs. I'm also curious to see what the Secretary of State's scenarios are. At what price levels does the Secretary of State consider it justified to extend the measures? I hope that this will take account of the projected sustained high inflation rate in 2023. As far as BVNL is concerned, we simply reduce the rates of excise duty and tax permanently, in the interest of the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you. I note that you have devoted quite a contribution to gas, but it is not about that. That's not what the law is about, and that's not what the Secretary of State is about either. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	Well, it costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	Yeah, I'd like another one. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	I want to talk about the subject we are really talking about. I'm just talking about the tax cut. Look, we're here with the financial spokesmen together. Mr Van Haga gives an interesting picture, but the facts are as follows: I can know, because I am from Silvolde, a village in the Achterhoek, almost on the border with Germany, just over 150 kilometers from The Hague. If you drive 1 out of 15, you pay €37.50 for the petrol with the Dutch prices. The price advantage if you had refueled in Germany is €7.50, at €37.50. So the picture that the advantage is as big as the cost of the whole trip is really nonsense. I would appreciate it if Mr Van Haga would acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	You should tell that to the gas pump holders in the region, who lose their business because you can gas 50 cents cheaper in Germany. This is simply because of what we are deciding here, by the cabinet, which is not prepared to reduce excise duties. That was my plea. Indeed, there will be a certain limit at which you can drive exactly cost-neutrally to Germany, and that depends on the size of your tank. So let's not get into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	We're all gonna figure that out later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	They're not stories. Look, whatever car you have, if you want to go from The Hague to Germany, you really have to travel a long way. The equation just doesn't add up. Those aren't stories, it's just math. If you're just calculating correctly, you know that comparison is wrong. I recognize that there's about 50 cents of price difference. That's a fact, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	Okay. Then we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	Let's agree on that and let's try to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Eppink of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got six minutes, but to avoid replications, I'm gonna go through the speech a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	By the way, I was expecting the Minister and not the Secretary of State, so I have to change my jargon as well. Mr. Chairman. Purchasing power has been falling since last year. Low-income or middle-income Dutch people are therefore struggling and cannot pay their energy and fuel bills anymore. In some cases, it's even worse. Large groups of people need help. This package is a first step in this direction. In fact, it has already entered into force since 1 April. A more generic approach, generic measures have been adopted. We can understand that from JA21. I have one question for the Secretary of State. Will the Secretary of State comment on the objections raised by the Council of State on efficiency? The cabinet therefore temporarily reduces excise duties on fuel, the VAT on energy goes down and there is an energy surcharge. We are pleased about that and we have some questions about that. How much room does the Secretary of State see for additional measures to be taken this year? Is it true, for example, that we can still make VAT reductions by 1 October 2022? The measures will run until 1 January 2023. Is the cabinet prepared to extend the measures if necessary? The war in Ukraine continues; it becomes a kind of trenches war. Those prices remain high for a long time. That's not nice, but it is. Several countries such as Portugal, as well as Sweden, have submitted a request to the European Commission to derogate from the VAT Directive in order to further reduce taxes. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do the same in line with Portugal and Sweden? It would be a good way, for example, to reduce VAT on energy to zero, should these problems become even greater, which I regret to see. I also have a question about the increase in government revenue from higher fuel prices, the increase in revenue through excise duties and so on. What are the amounts involved? Where exactly is that money going? Is this being channelled back to the citizen or is it being spent on other purposes? Mr. Chairman. I have more questions, but I will summarize them in one request. Can we get an overview before the summer recess of what measures are still possible to improve purchasing power and how much they will cost? Would it also be possible to get a calendar for the rest of the year? Then I'll come to the end. I wanted to ask about the ECB and monetary financing, but I am at the wrong place. I would like to comment on a comment on fiscal conservatism made yesterday by Mr Stoffer in the debate on the Spring note. That's where he mentioned my name. In this case, I would like to refer to Genesis 41, but I do not see him in the Chamber if I am right. It is of course very dangerous to debate the Bible with someone from the SGP, but that is about the fat and the lean years. The task of the government is to look after citizens' money as a good family father, to build supplies if things go well and to use them when things go bad. What are many states doing in Europe now, including in the euro area? A lot of spending, even when things are bad. And if it goes well, don't save anything. It's gonna get you in trouble. Tax conservatism is not exploiting citizens or paying as little tax as possible; it is wise to deal with money, take into account the future and think beyond "carpe diem." I'll have two minutes left and I'll give it back to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	And then the chairman says, "Amen." There is another question from Mr Grinwis. It's about the law today, so we're not gonna do Bible exegesis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	This is an encouragement not to talk about it. I think it is very nice that Mr Eppink quotes the story of the wise viceroy Joseph, but he applies it to budgetary discipline and to the economy of taxpayers' money. But what lesson does he learn from the story of the wise viceroy Joseph in order to ease the burden and drive inflation? That is the treadmill that we are now in danger of sinking into, namely that we are throwing a lot of money, a lot of oil on the fire, while inflation is only going to go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	It is, of course, the intention to save money in the good years, to create buffers, to do so. You can then turn the economy on a higher level, because you have money for it, but at some point that's over. I'll have to add that. That is why I say: the longer the crisis will last. If we get into a recession, it's time. Yesterday Mr Omtzigt talked about it: it is as bad as it was in 1945. I don't remember that myself. I remember 1973 with the Yom Kippur War and the oil crisis. Then there was a pay and price spiral. There was an automatism of higher prices and higher wages, and that went on throughout the 1970s. In the end, the Van Agt/Wiegel cabinet has come, which has tried to change its course. That was hard, too. After that, Lubbers came in 1982 with one of the best governments after the war. It reversed the trend, but it was accompanied by a lot of pain. So the longer you wait, the longer you run the bad policy, the higher the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	It's nice, that historical overview. Mr Mulder of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. I also have some sort of overview, but that starts with the coalition agreement. At that time it was already clear that this cabinet does not have much to do with the purchasing power of the ordinary Dutch citizen. The coalition agreement did not have an increase in purchasing power after many years of crisis. But this lack of feeling for ordinary citizens is now becoming increasingly apparent, because since last year the problems in our country have accumulated. In November 2021, we already had 5.2% of the highest inflation in the last 40 years and inflation has remained high ever since. She's even been over 10%. Inflation is destroying purchasing power. We notice that, everyone in the Netherlands notices that every day. It is the basic things in life that have become more expensive and still become more expensive. The energy was almost three times more expensive than last year, petrol almost a quarter and foodstuffs between 10% and 14%. Mr. Chairman. The primary necessities are therefore priceless for many people in the Netherlands. It's not a small group that suffers from that. It concerns millions of Dutch people, many millions of Dutch people who are in serious trouble. This has been going on for months. The common man can't turn in any more, because the heating is already low and can't be lower. There is no less fueling either, as has already been said, because people simply have to go to work. You can't keep cutting back on groceries, either. People have to eat every once in a while. So we're in very deep shit in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Now that we are in the midst of this misery, now that many millions of Dutch people no longer know how to proceed, this cabinet today comes with only EUR 2 billion. I say 'only EUR 2 billion', because the Minister receives a lot of extra money because of all the increased prices. This year Mrs Kaag earns 2.4 billion in additional gas revenues alone. I am not talking about extra VAT on petrol, diesel and energy. It's many billions. How wretched is it, then, that the government spends 108 billion on nitrogen and climate policy? That makes me so, so angry. I have been here for many years in all kinds of debates about the purchasing power of the Dutchman. And constantly different parties say all the time: "We do want to help, but there is no money. You're right. The purchasing power needs to be improved and we want to help, but there is no money." That was the only argument. Now there's money, 108 billion. That is why Mrs Kaag complains that she does not have any financial resources so well how can I put it nicely? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The money's here. There's 108 billion. It doesn't just mess with the plinths; it goes way over it. Only Mrs Kaag, this cabinet does not want to spend the money on purchasing power. That must be the conclusion. Unfortunately, I think it's that simple. People hate the farmers more than they love the citizens. Mr. Chairman. What is happening in the Netherlands is not an accidental disaster; it is a policy. Both the collapse of inflation and the choice of giving citizens crumbs are both policies. We used to fight inflation by turning the interest rate button, but we can't do that anymore, because for that we have surrendered too much sovereignty. Klaas Knot van De Nederlandsche Bank runs on the leash of Europe, and the ECB, as we saw yesterday, prefers to turn very little on that interest button. Otherwise Italy, Spain and Greece will be affected, as you know, by those countries that we have already given money on several occasions. It's always the last time, and they keep saying, 'cause they're going to reform with our money. Yeah, we gotta go save them again. The cause of the current misery of the Dutch is therefore also the fault of parties here in the Chamber who choose against the Netherlands and for Brussels. Mr. Chairman. What is happening in the Netherlands is unprecedented and unacceptable to the PVV. We're gonna have to do this right now. We need to move on now. Because households that are now in trouble can't wait for a bunch of directors somewhere in August with some steering committees in hei sessions to reconsider purchasing power measures. Then it is too late for many households, because the stove has to burn again in the cold autumn. People just need to be able to shower carefree. People, what are we talking about? We're talking about Holland. People should be able to shower, eat, live. The PVV has launched a purchasing power plan which will immediately bring about the greatest financial needs and provide help to the people. We are tabling three amendments to this law: one to make the energy bill affordable again by reducing VAT on energy to 0%, one to make messages, the barber, the bicycle maker, etc. more affordable by reducing the reduced VAT rate from 9% to 0%, and one to make fuel cheaper by setting excise duties to zero. In total, this amounts to nearly 8.5 billion in excess of the government's 2 billion, fully covered by the nitrogen fund. Mr. Chairman. The need is in the Netherlands. The money's here. The law is ahead, with proposals. All we need now are decent parties who want to support this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you. I would just like to mention, in relation to the accounts, that your amendments have been given Nos 10, 9 and 6. Then Mrs. Inge van Dijk from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. More specifically, less generic; that was the core message of my input in previous debates when we talked about temporary measures to help people pay their bills now that inflation is so unprecedented. Last week we received the report Stress test cost of living from the CBS. The conclusion was: "Most Dutch households can cope with the increase in energy prices and other fixed charges, but in a high-price scenario, 1.2 million households may find it difficult to pay their monthly charges." That's a lot of Dutch people. The report also states: "In the short term, the possibilities for reducing the costs of increasing fixed and necessary burdens are limited. (...) If the aim of policy is to combat this type of affordability problem, unfocused measures, such as the temporary reduction of excise duties, VAT and taxes on energy and fuel, are not effective and effective. Indeed, most households have sufficient income to pay higher prices, and for vulnerable households, these reductions are often not sufficient to overcome their affordability problems." "This proposal regulates the reduction of VAT on energy from 21% to 9% as of 1 July 2022, a reduction of excise duty on petrol, diesel and LPG by 21% as of 1 April 2022 and an impact of the measures to reduce the impact of rising energy prices on the Caribbean part of the Netherlands." Generic measures, then. Meanwhile, we also know that much use of electricity, possession of a car and many mileage by car are less common in the group with an affordability problem. This means that the measures are particularly unfocused. Nevertheless, we understand the choice of the cabinet for these measures with the aim in mind to do something quickly for our residents. We are also pleased that the House's call to help more specifically people at the bottom has been heard. People who need it badly get $800. Is this arrangement perfect? No, definitely not. You can comment on the fact that municipalities deal with it differently, for example when it comes to the group that is eligible for it. Is the scheme complex in implementation? I'm so sorry. I told you last week during the Responsible debate about Mr. De Haas, who doesn't have a computer, but who has to print, scan and mail things to qualify for the municipality's website. These are all impossible steps for him, but such a specific arrangement is now needed. The step that needs to be taken now is a simplification for our citizens to be able to claim it. Quickly doing something focused must remain the ambition. Our first question is therefore whether the adjustments to the systems in the Tax Administration, which this State Secretary expects to be able to provide more flexibility from 2025, also contribute to the adoption of more targeted measures in exceptional situations. Because yes, after corona we must quickly return to the financial normal, without too many exceptions, but there must also be room for quick help when people in the Netherlands really sink through the ice. I'm gonna come back to that financial normal thing at the trial. The Secretary of State also appointed it in the documents themselves: to spend money without the formal approval of the Chamber. His response is: the cabinet is currently working out a framework for consideration of the conditions under which it can be acceptable to use a policy decision in anticipation of legislation. It is the cabinet's intention to offer that framework as soon as possible, but at least this year, to both the Second and First Chambers. We therefore like to see it appear. The CDA assumes that this framework is also aimed at making as little use of it as possible. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Then there are the possible bumps on the road, which put further pressure on the effectiveness of the measures. The document shall indicate the effectiveness to the extent and when the VAT reduction is passed on by the energy suppliers. The later, the less meaningful for the short term. Does the Secretary of State have any idea how this is developing? Is it a bumpy road or is it becoming a slippery carpet? Mr. Chairman. We must also ensure that these and other measures, even though they are generic, reach the people they need as much as possible. That is why I have three concerns. In order to experience the benefit of the VAT reduction already in 2022, households have to adjust the amount of the advance themselves with their energy supplier. The group that is relatively best served by this measure is also the group whose capacity may already be under pressure from financial concerns. It can help if energy suppliers inform their customers about the possibilities of reducing advances. This is also discussed with these parties. My question is: what was done by the energy suppliers after these talks to actively assist residents in this? It also appears that many people have not yet applied for the one-off benefit, although they are entitled to it. What is the Cabinet going to do to ensure that people know that this measure is there and to remove the obstacle to feasibility, if there is one? Then there is my third point. In an earlier debate on purchasing power, I tabled a motion asking for a national public campaign to highlight measures that are already there, but which are not used by the citizens who are entitled to them. This motion was dissuaded, because the minister concerned was already working on it. I would like to receive a letter on the current state of affairs concerning actively informing people about existing schemes that support income. For once again, I believe that this time we need to be grand and nationwide in order to bring all these arrangements to the fore again. That is why I am making an urgent request. Finally, Mr President. Reducing excise duty, VAT and taxation on energy and fuel is not effective and effective enough if the aim of that measure is to combat this type of affordability problem. Most households do not need emergency support and for vulnerable households these reductions are insufficient to overcome their deficit. But doing nothing in the short term is not an option for us and that is why we support the cabinet. Yesterday, in this Chamber, there was a great deal of talk about promising and more targeted follow-up solutions. I therefore look forward to continuing this debate in the near future. I have one last question. Last week we read an article by the NIS stating that the cabinet is considering introducing a tax reduction for workers, i.e. adjusting the labour discount. The cabinet also wants to further increase the minimum wage. Can the Secretary of State explain these plans further and let us know why we should read these plans in the newspaper, while it is a subject for all parties in this Chamber that we like to be involved in at the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you. This was your contribution? Very good. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee. I'd like to ask the people who want to interrupt to stand by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	I thank Mrs Van Dijk. I find it interesting that she stresses that this measure is not very effective. It is also equestrian in its presentation of the CPB stress test. Just the group that gets the most into trouble, the group up to one and a half times modal, drives very little car. Don't I feel some regret about this measure? Let me put it another way: if you could go back in time, would you rather have devoted this 2 billion to the group that earns up to one and a half times the morale, instead of taking these measures which now require us to look again for money to do something additional?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	Unfortunately, cookies are not often baked in politics. The aim was to do something quickly, and we have a discussion here about 'fast'. We have talked extensively about the fact that this means that we have to start using generic things and that this could be the fastest in the short term. That is why I would have preferred targeted measures. That is what I have said in every debate. But I also understand that it is not all as easy as some here in the Chamber say. So I do regret that it is less targeted. That is why we have argued very strongly with several parties that we should please do something targeted at the bottom, even though we can see that it is very complex in the implementation. Would I want to go back? It is if there were better short-term alternatives. But I do feel that we have been well taken into account in the fact that those short-term solutions were just not so fast at the time. So: rather more specific, but I do understand the choice of the cabinet in this matter. I am also glad that we are going to discuss this further in the near future, because we are not ready for the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yes, but of course there were alternatives. We and the PvdA, of course, would like to see that proposal taken up earlier in this debate, that the people who receive care allowance receive an additional supplement. If we had started this earlier, it might have been carried out by 1 July. I am not concerned with making all kinds of accusations against you, but I am curious whether you are taking a lesson from it, namely that we should do even more to ensure that, if we take these measures quickly, we are much more focused.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	I think I've already learned that lesson from the beginning. I have always indicated: yes, please more generic. I really wish I could tell another story here, but I'm also not blind to the problems in the execution. If the Secretary of State did say, "Oh, if I had known then, I could have introduced it more quickly," then I also think we should have the honest talk about it. But I honestly don't know if it is. We are also getting signals from the implementation in the sense of: that overpromise is all nice, but we also need to be able to carry it out. If we are going to do this with each other, then I would find it the worst thing to have to say to people in practice: I'm sorry, we can only set up a dramatic process for you, because we can't actually keep up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	I have a question about the same point. I understand the considerations of the CDA, but also the remark of: more is actually needed, as long as it can be done quickly. This is mainly about the group of 1.2 million people of which the CPB also says: in the worst scenario, they are threatening to sink through the ice. We have listened to the arguments of the cabinet. The cabinet says: you can raise the care allowance, but it's all hard to pay back; so it can, but it's a lot of trouble. If it is possible, is the CDA willing to let that group go when they receive that €500 on top of their healthcare allowance? So is the CDA willing to do some extras this year for that group around fashion, who's having such a hard time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	The feeling that I left to yesterday's debate is that we are sympathetic towards this, so we want to investigate it. But as far as I'm concerned, we still have to be able to live up to it. We shouldn't promise something that eventually just becomes a drama in the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	I do not think that anyone wants to do that, especially given that the Finance Committee, with the laws that we have incorporated into it, has brought enough misery on the land on various points, such as the childcare allowance and box 3. But of course, there's always something. In corona time, we've seen how much we can do. So if the CDA really wants and sees that people don't make ends meet at the end of the month, while the winter will be there again, is it prepared to spend a substantial amount of support for it, if it is feasible and covered? We will also discuss the latter; we have the solidarity levy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	We are very much prepared to discuss this with you. If they are indeed targeted measures that could solve a large part of the problem, then we are not going to bury our heads in the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mrs Van Dijk said in her speech and in the small debate that she would be in favour of better solutions. She's looking for good alternatives. We come up with alternatives today. It's affordable. It also fits perfectly with the CDA, because it comes from the nitrogen fund. The CDA also wants to spend the money from that fund differently. So she's gonna support us today?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	No, I'm not gonna do that. And why not? Because I actually think it's the PVV's idea poverty. We call very loudly and decisively "this must and that is the solution," but also the CPB report shows that it is not at all the solution for the people who are really at risk of falling through the ice. I think we should be careful with our money, because it's community money, and I'm not going to bring it to people with three cars in front of the door and a heated pool. The report makes it very clear that these people also benefit very much. I'd rather bet it on purpose. I think it is an idea poverty and we will not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	Idea poverty? We come with targeted solutions that also help the bottom of incomes in the Netherlands with €1,000 per direct, as of 1 July. Well, that's targeted. Then you'll do something. Talking about being economical with money when you flicker away 108 billion is very harsh to say in one sentence. But back to the content. Our proposals are covered and, although you do not entirely agree with them, at least ensure that people who are in trouble now receive money immediately and therefore have fewer problems. Why don't you want to support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	That is why I am pleased that this is the outcome of yesterday's debate on more targeted measures. We think this is a little too much "great steps, quick at home." At the moment, I am not convinced that these are the solutions that we must offer to the people up to one and a half times so that they do not sink through the ice. That's the honest answer. You're talking about "I'm gonna put it nicely." "Getting rid of money." That hasn't been proven at all. Because perhaps we are going to invest in certain measures that will also reduce people's accounts in the future. Think of isolation programs. I am not against that at all, especially when it concerns cheap rental homes where people, as it is called, 'blow through'. I think we should do that, because it's and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	No, I'm going to see Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	Why can't I...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	Because I do interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	This CDA Secretary of State has reduced the excise duty on fuel a little bit. But now we see that petrol prices are heading back towards the €2.50 and that the reduction in excise duty has completely evaporated. My question to Mrs Van Dijk is therefore whether she shares the conclusion that this is too little, that this aid has already evaporated completely, that petrol prices are now again exceptionally high and that we should therefore do something extra? Now, to get these people to the gas station?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	I share the conclusion that we need to do something extra, but I do not share the conclusion that by definition that should be fuel prices. I do not see that as the most targeted solution or as the solution that will help most people who need it most. I am also very sensitive to the argument that people in the region need their cars. I come from that region and I know what it's like to depend on it, but I do not share the argument that this is the best solution for those people who need it most, and I want to go for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	It's the best solution for those people who need it the most. The Central Planning Office is not as sure in this as many people make it appear. They literally say that a lot of car use is a little less common among people with lower incomes. So it's not much less. People with lower incomes also have 65% car ownership. Those taxi drivers and thosezzp'ers who depend on their cars, they're all in that group and they're just helped with this. They're just gonna be helped if we get those gas prices down. So my question to the CDA remains: why don't we just help these people with a lower petrol tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	The reason is that we are going through a bit of repetition, and I always find it annoying that we really think that we should focus on how we can raise the disposable income of those people. How are we gonna keep them more at the end of the month? What they want to spend it on, whether it's fueling, the groceries or maybe even that outing with their kids, I really want to leave that with those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	I'd love to see the next speaker. That's Mr. Mulder. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	The CDA talks about it not being targeted and screening with a CPB report. But the same CPB says that if you lower VAT, you help the people at the bottom, who have little income, because they have much more benefit from such a reduction. So it would fit in your alley to lower that VAT. You say that you are looking for solutions right now and you also have problems with the use of the nitrogen fund. I don't understand why these two things can't come together and you can't support us. This would not mainly support the PVV, but the people who are in trouble for the next six months. So it's not about your friends, who have three cars and a pool, but about the people who can't afford the groceries right now. I would like to hear from you that you think that is a good alternative for the next six months. We are now doing something in the short term; those are your own words. We can pay for it and the proposal is there. Please help those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	I hear Mr Mulder thinks he knows who my friends are, but I don't think he does, because my friends don't have three cars and a pool. I'd know where I was going to spend my weekends. I am concerned that we should continue to debate this subject within the next few weeks. I think the deal was made yesterday that a number of things will be sorted out. I cannot believe that the PVV wants us to take decisions that ultimately turn out to be less efficient and effective. So maybe you can keep your proposal for a few weeks. Then we have finished the wide-ranging investigations and can come to a joint decision where we can look at each other in the mirror and say: now we have really done the right thing for the people at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	Very briefly, Mr. Mulder. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	Yeah, we always interrupt in half, so this is the second one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	We're also interrupting briefly, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, sure. That's very important, Mr. Chairman. We don't have to think for months. You yourself come up with the story that there are reports that indicate whether or not something is directed. The report indicates that VAT reduction is highly targeted. It's for the short term and it helps the people who are in trouble right now, and the money is there. I see no reason to wait weeks or months again. And I don't want to talk about isolation or anything like that. We have to help now. The proposal is there and we deal with the law. The money's here. Then you can just support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	I'm gonna try one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u69	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u70	A general measure such as lowering VAT helps everyone. That's great. But I will be very honest: I don't need to be helped with my income. I would much rather give that money at the bottom, up to one and a half modes, and come up with measures to help those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yes. Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Alkaya, from the SP Group. In terms of track record, I aim to have the first term of the Chamber done for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Chairman. Of course, as representatives of the people, we cannot sit and watch while hundreds of thousands of Dutch people cannot pay their energy bills anymore. After a long wait, this package of government measures, which we are talking about today, finally came, which temporarily reduced prices for gas and electricity and fuel at the pump. But today, when we are discussing the law, that reduction has actually been nullified. So it was severely inadequate. Before I ask a number of questions about the law itself, I would like to point out that this kind of government intervention in this form and with such a scale would probably not have been necessary if we had had a fair functioning economy or if the government had already done something about the crumbling purchasing power of people, for example by substantially increasing the minimum wage and benefits, reducing rents or dividing the cost of care according to capacity, rather than trying to turn it into a market. It is political choices that have led many people in our society, many people in our country, to live on the edge and that in normal times they can hardly make ends meet and certainly cannot cope with setbacks, which require such urgent intervention by the government. If hundreds of thousands of households are already in trouble, and possibly 1.2 million households are going to be in trouble, and if they are unable to pay their fixed charges, then I feel a substitute shame for our government. In a country where there is so much money, this situation is simply a result of mismanagement and political maladministration. There is an urgent procedure for this today and that is what we are going to talk about, but it has already proved insufficient in practice. Yesterday, during the debate on the Spring Paper, a great deal of discussion was held on additional measures and also on fair coverage, for example by raising the tax on profits for larger companies. Fair coverage is all the more important if the measures are unfocused, such as the measures we are talking about today, namely the reduction of taxes on energy consumption. This benefits everyone and therefore also people who do not need public support at all at the moment. My party will not vote against these measures, because without them we are even further away from home. But if the government is forced to hand out money to everyone and then collects that money from everyone, then that is not solidarity. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Does the Secretary of State, on behalf of the Cabinet, still share the SP's call not to cut public services and not to increase the burden on labour or consumption? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, many ideas were exchanged to actually organise solidarity in society, structuralally, but also in crisis situations, in exceptional times. Demand from millionaires and multinationals a fair contribution, especially in crisis situations, but also simply structural. Call a halt to militarization. Don't put billions in weapons. Put them in society. We can see today where that militarisation leads. The arms fair in Paris is overcrowded, more popular than ever. Models in short skirts stand next to bombs posing. Pervert! That's not the world we need to move to. With the money you save, increase wages and reduce the burden on people, especially of people with low incomes or middle income. Today I have heard a number of ideas about this. I will support a large number of them, provided that the coverage is good. To be honest, I still doubt the nitrogen fund. So there are plenty of opportunities to make our society fairer, so hopefully this kind of emergency intervention by the government will no longer be necessary in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u73	Very good. Thank you for your conciseness. Then there is Mr Nijboer from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow, the sparrows will probably fall off the roof. I hope it's a warm summer. But it won't be long before we're in the fall and people have to turn on the heat again. There are a lot of people who get a higher bill and can just do that, but there are also a lot of people who look at it with fear and trembling. They have to decide whether to stop turning on the heater or to turn the heater on 16 degrees and sit at home with cold feet. Maybe they should call off the kids' sports club and wait and see if they can still take a field trip this summer, because they look up against the winter. For those people, the Cabinet has taken measures, but I do not think it is enough. That's very worrying. Although it's nice and warm now, it's stressful. I call the financial problems, the admission period, a new term of the CPB: how many months can you cover if you don't have enough money to pay your bills? Then it's not just about how many months you can cover; every month you have concerns to just meet the basic needs you need as a family or as a person. That's what we're talking about. The PvdA also competes with other parties in order to reduce the problems of these people. Mr. Chairman. That is how I see this debate. The main criticism of the government's measures is that they cost a lot of money, that a lot of money goes to people who really don't need it and that too little is being done for the people who really need it, which I was just talking about. It's not like nothing's being done. There will be separate legal treatment on income up to 120% of the social minimum. Measures have been taken for this. My colleague Kathmann will say something about that. There will be an amount of €800. That's a lot of money. But, yes, you will live in the municipality of Eemsdelta. You'll only get 110%. Then you really have to be at the social minimum, while other municipalities are much more generous. My question to the cabinet is therefore: why did it not raise this scheme to 130% of the social minimum? The main concern the PvdA has is about tenants, especially in draft rentals. I understand that you can no longer freeze the rents as of 1 July, but we have already argued in the autumn and before that to do so. There was still time. I am also thinking of cutting rents for people living in drafty homes. That's the group you want to reach. Why wasn't that chosen? Mr. Chairman. Together with GroenLinks, the PvdA Group has proposed to give €500 to those groups that are just between all these arrangements. The Secretary of State has previously indicated, also in response to questions from Mr Klaver, that if you do that through the health care allowance, it will all be settled again. Then you're not entitled to it again. Then you have to pay back, which requires a huge amount of administrative work. It's possible at the time; I don't know if we can do it now, but it's a lot of hassle. That is why you should not want it, and that is why this measure has been chosen. Then we thought, "What if you claim it?" It's not that complicated in itself. Give the people who claim that healthcare allowance, €500 in the autumn, before the energy bill goes up. These are groups with an income between €31,000, €32,000 and over €40,000, regardless of whether you live together or not. Then you've reached exactly the groups you want to reach. The same applies, for example, to students. How does the cabinet see that? Can this be technical? Is the Cabinet prepared to introduce that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr Omtzigt comes in and immediately starts interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u76	That's right. But I also follow the debate from afar. I'm trying to multitask. The care allowance idea is a sympathetic idea, but it has one problem. A care allowance is an advance. So you get it for this year based on your estimated income. You can write to the Tax Administration/Applications and say: I think this year I am entitled to €20 health care allowance, because I am just below that limit. Eventually you don't get it and you have to pay back €20. No one feels sorry for those cases, but if you attach to it that you get €500, it will be very interesting to apply for a small care allowance, because well, you get it. How does that work in practice? Should those people who are just not entitled to the health care allowance afterwards, not only pay back the €20, but pay back €520?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u77	This is a very fair question. How do you get the money from the people who need it the most? There are practical objections everywhere, and this is a practical objection. There are a few alternatives to imaginable. You can say: the people who claim it and lose the care allowance will still get the €500. We have done this quite generously with this NOW regulation. Only real fraud can get you back, but if you don't, you're just gonna let it go. You can perhaps say that the people who are now claiming care allowance... You can say that you are not doing it for the people who are applying for it, with small amounts. That's up to the cabinet to work out, I think. Of course, every proposal you make has practical objections, as with this cabinet proposal, namely that most of the money reaches the highest income. So I think it's a legitimate point. I ask the cabinet what the answer to that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u78	I was surprised at the following. The care allowance is ideally designed, because it ends with the income. You could have said that the people who are currently receiving the highest health care allowance get $800 and that you're letting it go to zero. You're just raising the whole care allowance budget, and you're making it go a little steeper. You'd have given everyone some money. Then you don't get to those borders so that someone gets more or less just €500 on the basis of a euro and we get a hopeless whining afterwards, really. So would the PvdA also consider just doing it in the whole budget? By the way, that is a little cheaper, because that means that someone who is just eligible is not getting €500 but €200. That is the consequence. But then make it executable, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u79	This is what we suggested. Then the cabinet said: know that it all has to be settled afterwards and that people also have to pay it back. If someone is entitled to a health care allowance, you may or may not give €500. Of course, that's the advantage. The disadvantage is, of course, that if you are just below those limits... by the way, that is the case with all regulations. This also applies to the €800 municipal scheme, which also works differently. I find that even more problematic. Of course, that's the downside if you do that. This was our initial proposal. If the cabinet says that it thinks the initial proposal is better in terms of implementation, it is quite reasonable to talk about it. I'm really looking for the best way to do it. You want to get the money into that group. Frankly, €500 is also an arbitrary amount. You can also say €50 in the month. That's $600. What can I do for you? You're trying to reach that group as best you can. In both variants there are advantages and disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u80	Yes. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then it must also be covered; at least that is new policy of the cabinet. This has not been the case in recent times, but it seems to be the case now. From now on, it really needs to be covered. That was also the subject of a debate yesterday. There are different variants of the solidarity levy in Europe. Some of it is being introduced, some of it is being considered. I'll ask the Cabinet what variants it's looking at. Are they looking at the English version, with 25% profit tax on energy companies? Are they looking more broadly at a premium on the Vpb, at the profit tax rate? What variants does the cabinet consider? I would like to consider the cabinet... because we all know that we cannot introduce such a profit tax in this year. I would like to, but I think that is practically impossible, when I want the €500 among the vulnerable groups. Is the cabinet also prepared to squash the proceeds? We know that we need about €2.4 billion if you want to get that €500 there. Is the Cabinet prepared to shape that tax in this way, so that you will provide the cover for it in the years to come? Otherwise, I will see to it that it is all going to be lengthy discussions, and that it can be done in accordance with the budgetary rules. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to some more precise questions about the bill. The SGP has stressed each time that instead of reducing VAT, you can also reduce taxes. Then everyone gets the same amount. Someone who sits in a fat villa and uses a lot of electricity, a lot of electricity, actually gets a relatively large amount of money because of that VAT reduction, while someone in a small apartment, who consumes little, for example because he's in between those apartments, gets less. Why not opt for tax relief, which was also chosen last year? Wouldn't that have been more targeted than this measure? I'll say right away: in a drafty rental house you also use a lot and you have a lot of advantage from that VAT. Sometimes you have a political view and sometimes you also have a substantive question. This is covered by the substantive questions. Mr. Chairman. I understand what's going on with the excise duties. It also happens abroad, but it is unfocused. If you drive a very fat car, as we say in Groningen, you will of course benefit more from it than if you don't even have a car. So we have said before that it is also important for commuting. If you're a nurse, if you have to travel at night or in the region, you really need a car. Of course, this unpaid travel allowance has come out a little bit, but that is very thin. That was then brought forward next year and that is with a few cents. So why isn't that just raised to €0.30? Then you really have commuting, which actually costs people and that also involves necessary travel. Why is this not done, perhaps instead of this or next door, and why is it not done in January if it is not possible this year? The same is true of public transport. Public transport in Germany is getting very cheap; €9.00 is nice, but I do not think you want to be on the train anymore at the moment. That may be a bit heavy, but in itself it is a good idea to keep that affordable, even as an alternative now that travelling by car has become so expensive. Why didn't they take the initiative? Wouldn't that have been much more targeted? Those were my questions, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u82	Very well, thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Idsinga of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about two emergency measures taken by the government earlier this year to dampen the price increase on the pump and on the energy bill. In concrete terms, we are talking about the VAT reduction on the energy bill as of 1 July and the reductions in petrol and diesel taxes that were introduced last April. These are two specific elements of recent purchasing power packages for a total staggering amount of EUR 6 billion. Yesterday, we had a wide-ranging debate here on what more is needed. Soon, hopefully very soon, we will talk about this, but today we are talking about the measures taken by the government in the spring and the way in which we legislate. Today, I want to make two important points about the reductions in VAT and excise duties. Mr President, first of all. This tax money is meant to dampen price increases slightly to make sure that people who have trouble getting around get a little more air. I am therefore concerned when I read that, in response to the Council of State, the government states that the impact of this tax reduction depends, among other things, on the extent to which and when the energy companies or oil companies pass on that reduction in their prices. We need to ensure that this huge amount of reserved tax money goes to citizens, not to energy companies or oil companies. Last weekend I was shocked by the news in the newspaper about this. These were reports about other countries, which have also recently introduced a significant reduction in excise duties. There, in those countries, there are serious concerns and even investigations have started on this point. Can the Secretary of State give a concrete indication of what he has agreed with the sectors on this point? Are these agreements also legally enforceable? If not, is the government going to appeal to these companies on their responsibility to pass the tax cuts on to ordinary consumers? Does the Cabinet intend to monitor and evaluate the calculation of the tax advantage by these energy suppliers? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my second point, namely the border effects of the reduction in petrol and diesel taxes. The Netherlands has significantly reduced them by 1 April, but Germany has gone much further in this respect as from 1 June. The effect is that a liter of fuel there is many dimes cheaper than in the Netherlands. On a full tank, this could give a few tens. Understandably, it is now even more attractive for many Dutch to refuel in Germany. We all know the coloured map of the Netherlands with about which point from the German border it pays to refuel there. Clearly, for a growing number of SMEs, gas station operators and retailers in the Netherlands, this may have significant financial consequences. For them, this means less turnover. At the same time, this is also bad news for the Dutch Treasury, namely less VAT and excise revenue. I know that the Cabinet is currently in the process of mapping these effects. So I won't ask again now. What I do want to know is whether the cabinet is also looking at what these price differences do with the tax revenue. Do we come to price differences of more than 30 cents per litre, which is about the current price difference between the Netherlands and Germany, not almost at a point where it will bring more money to reduce excise duty in the Netherlands? Isn't there some kind of equilibrium point, especially when fuel prices are already so high that many people think twice about whether they really need to refuel? I ask the Secretary of State to investigate this seriously, so that we can have this discussion with each other on the basis of facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber... Oh, there's a single interruption coming up. Mr. Alkaya was the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mr. Idsinga got off very quickly. My question concerns coverage, not so much of what is in store today as of what is in general in the case of measures that reduce the burden of reducing purchasing power losses. These measures reduce public revenue and therefore need to be covered in some way, because if you do not cover it, the next generations will pay for it. In February, when it came to box 3, I tabled a motion not to increase the burden on labour or consumption. All parties supported that motion, except the VVD. The cabinet has carried out this motion neatly, which I am also pleased with, but I was so surprised at the vote against the VVD that I am now wondering whether we can get support from the VVD in the future if we say that the burden on labour and consumption cannot be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u86	The discussion on labour and capital burdens will take place later this year. So I do not want to anticipate that already, especially with regard to box 3, because we will have to crack some hard notes in other areas. So yes, that's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u87	If it stays with this answer, I'm just gonna retable that motion. You can expect that. The VVD is isolated. I ask the VVD not to be so isolated and to express itself here, so that society gets certainty from our Chamber, that the burden on labour, i.e. income tax and so on, and the burden on consumption, VAT and so on, will not go up. Why does the VVD leave uncertainty hanging over the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u88	Our group chairman, Mrs Hermans, also spoke yesterday about the relationship between the tax burden on labour and the tax burden on capital. At the moment the tax burden on labour is extremely high in the Netherlands; that's right. But we would like to continue this discussion constructively with you as soon as we have received the reports on disability and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u89	I would just like to discuss Mr Idsinga's first point with him, because he is now calling for an assurance from the Secretary of State that the route advocated by the VVD itself, namely indirect compensation for people through companies, will reach people entirely. This raises the first question: shouldn't a different choice have been made from the beginning? Shouldn't that money have gone directly to people themselves? 'Cause then you'll have that insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u90	I think that is a very fair question. The choice we made with each other, of course, had to be quick, because we wanted to do something quickly. So then you come up with generic measures. That does not have to be bad in itself, I would like to say to Mr Van der Lee. Generic measures do not have to be bad in principle, but I would like to make sure that if we take those generic measures, such as the reduction of VAT, the reduction of excise duties, we will take care of them, either in front or in the back, that the large amount that we have all reserved for them will come back to those citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u91	One of the answers from the Secretary of State might be: I cannot guarantee it directly, but I can make sure, through the introduction of a solidarity levy, that the money that does not go to the citizen is still collected through the tax authorities and then through direct payments, through a grant to people who are having a hard time, really gets to them completely. Is that what you're here for?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u92	The solidarity levy was discussed in detail yesterday. It's being investigated, too, so I think that's a fair question. There are still some advantages and disadvantages; let me put it this way. I am asking for something quite different, namely that if you decide to make that money available, so I am not talking about extra money that you might or might not collect by means of a solidarity levy; no, I'm just talking about the money that has been made available now; you're making sure that one-on-one gets to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u93	It is a good thing that Mr Idsinga mentioned the excise duty on petrol and the ticket. Of course, we know the VVD from the past as a party that stood up for entrepreneurs, for people who are in the car, but according to the NOS, which is certainly a cabinet-friendly broadcaster, the border region has now moved to Utrecht. So, according to the NOS, you can already benefit from Utrecht by driving to Germany. I indicated myself, and I was a bit corrected for that, that you can drive from The Hague to Germany by now. Do you agree with me that it goes far and far too far and that we must do something about it very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u94	I know that card, and it scared the hell out of me. You just held it up; I know it too. By the way, The Hague is not red-colored on that card, fortunately, and I hope that does not happen either. But I agree with you. Hence my questions to the cabinet. How big are these border effects and what is their overall impact, including for the people who have to earn their living in that border region? That border region, Mr Van Haga, is indeed moving further and further inland. So I find that worrying, because that means that shopkeepers and gas station holders in that area are getting even heavier, because they see their turnover fall. At the same time, the question I also put to the Secretary of State is bad for our treasury. So there's a balance somewhere. I want to know exactly where this turning point is, because I do not think that research in this area is enough. If we have those facts on the table, and those facts go beyond that card you showed me, I see you nodding, so I assume that you agree with me, then we need to have that discussion on the basis of those facts. I can't really see it right now, and neither can you, because we don't have those facts yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u95	It depends on a number of factors: the size of your tank, your fuel consumption. But I've been doing some math anyway. Let's say you have to drive 100 miles. Here and there, that's 300 kilometers. At 1 in 25, that's 12 liters. With €2 per litre it costs €24. So at 48 liters of fuel, you drive cost-neutrally to Germany. So you drive from The Hague to Germany, and if you fill more than 48 liters, you're already making a profit. So it is true that that card now covers almost the whole of the Netherlands. If you put five more cans of 20 liters in your trunk, and you bring 100 liters, then you make another 50 euros profit. Well, if you're driving back and forth for three hours, you're earning $16 an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u96	Clear!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u97	For most people, it's an incredibly lucrative business. I do not want to expose a smuggling route here, but it is certainly lucrative to drive from The Hague to Germany. So I hope the VVD will do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u98	I share your concerns, I would like to say to Mr Van Haga. Indeed, if you also throw a few jerry cans in the back of the car, in the trunk, which I think is very dangerous... but well, it can be...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u99	I don't think that's allowed either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u100	Well, I think it's okay to a certain extent. If you do that, the profits you make as a consumer can rise considerably. I'm aware of that, and that's worrying. We need to know more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u101	Quite well what the VVD notes here about border effects and too high petrol prices. We are tabling an amendment which will bring excise duties to zero and a litre of petrol to 80 cents cheaper. So it is nice that we have the support of the VVD. It's also absurd, that gas price. If you have a full tank, like I say to the Secretary of State, you're gonna have to add that value to box three these days. So we can do something about that with this amendment. But it is even worse in terms of border effects, because the amount of tobacco taxes that have gone wrong alone is 1.4 billion a year. That's pretty much the value of the package the cabinet is submitting today. It would therefore be very good if we would jointly ensure that the price of petrol goes down 80 cents, so that many more people in the Netherlands buy and we get more excise duties and VAT. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u102	Well, there are some layers in your questioning or in your call to me. I share your concerns. I have included this in my contribution. That is why I want to know more about this. If it turns out that we are now missing tax revenue, then hitting our SMEs hard and hitting our pumping station holders hard, and all of that when we miss revenue for the treasury, that is very worrying. At the same time, we must also be realistic. I know your amendment; I read it. It was also included in yesterday's debate. Yesterday we talked about purchasing power measures. You were there yourself and I was there; we were in the room. There is now an opening to look at each other, from left to right in the Chamber. So that's what we're gonna do. At that time, when we also have the weighting from the cabinet on those measures, including the measure you are now referring to, we will have a debate on this and we will decide on it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u103	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u104	On the one hand, I hear: we want to do it. But we're gonna do all kinds of tests again. The problem is that this is going to take months again and that people are going to drive to Germany now, which you say is not the intention, and that they are going to Belgium now and gas there. We can do something about it now. Not only can we ensure that more is spent in the Netherlands, but from Germany they will come to the Netherlands, but we will also solve the problem with, for example, tobacco taxes, 1.4 billion. We make money on all sides, plus, plus, plus. The coverage is entirely in line with the VVD Congress, which comes from the nitrogen fund. I think we're in agreement. I can also tell by the body language that the VVD fully supports us. Just, we shouldn't wait a few months. We have to take care of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u105	Then perhaps my body language is a little treacherous, I say to Mr Mulder. I think it makes sense to have a good conversation about this with each other. I fully agree with Mr Mulder. But if you're having a conversation with each other, you have to be clear on what facts you're having these conversations on. For that, I do need a little more background information. There isn't, and I find that extremely painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u106	I do not hear the VVD at all about the groups that have now got into trouble, that it has gotten worse and what extra needs to be done. I asked the CDA about that. They said: if we can, we are prepared to talk about the 500 euros. What's the VVD like in here? Isn't it a concern of the VVD that people with a moral income don't make ends meet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u107	That is certainly a concern, I would like to say to Mr Nijboer. You heard this yesterday in our contribution to the debate. Indeed, a lot of people cannot make ends meet or will not be able to make ends meet due to rising prices at the pump, the energy bill, the groceries. Yesterday it became clear, I think, that the cabinet offers openings to say: we have to do something; at least we have to mitigate those effects. But that is a complicated puzzle; so does Mr Nijboer. We're gonna talk about that in the very short term. I have just said that there are all kinds of ideas about this in this Chamber, from left to right. We will look at them with open eyes as soon as we have an appreciation from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u108	The cabinet, of course, comes with appreciations and proposals, but we are the Chamber and we can also find something. Today is also a time to talk about that. We are talking about fiscal measures for purchasing power; that bill is before us. So it is quite logical that I now ask: does the VVD also think that what is now in the cabinet is not enough? So should there be additional proposals, this year, to support purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u109	I have just said in my speech that we will talk about this again very soon. Once again, Mrs Hermans said the same yesterday. We will look seriously at all the proposals that live here from left to right in the Chamber. We will have to look at what is and is not possible in the Court of Justice on the basis of these facts, in cooperation with each other. That's just the honest conversation we have to have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u110	Thank you. We have six more speakers to speak on the side of the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to Mr Grinwis of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u111	Thank you, Mr President. This debate feels a bit like a debate about the emperor's beard. Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act has been discussed a great deal in recent weeks and more will be said during this debate. I look forward to a reflection of the Secretary of State on how this has been applied here. After yesterday's debate on the Spring Note and its suspension, I shall now confine myself to asking a number of questions. So the key question is: how can we help people who fall through the ice? The answer to this is postponed until later this season and this year, not because it is irrelevant and urgent, but because the debate was suspended yesterday. I have already made a point in writing about the VAT and excise duty reductions to be passed on to the consumer. VAT and excise duty are levied on the part of the trader. Whether the consumer pays a lower fuel price therefore depends on whether companies pass on that reduction. A number of questions about this. The reduction in excise duty has been in force for several months now. At the start of the reduction, the consumer price fell abruptly. In the meantime, the price has risen again above the level of the net for the reduction of excise duty. What part of this increase is due to the autonomous increase in oil prices and the appreciation of the dollar against the euro? And what part is due to the fact that companies may no longer pass the excise duty discount on to consumers? What possibilities does the cabinet have to ensure that companies actually pass on this tax reduction? In addition to making a moral appeal to companies by the cabinet, are there any other possibilities, perhaps legal possibilities, to enforce further calculation? Is there any reason to reconsider the cartel legislation on this issue? What role does the ACM play in this enforcement? Does the ACM investigate cartel behaviour of companies that jointly choose not to pass on the excise duty reduction in full? Is the Secretary of State aware that in Germany excise duties have recently been substantially reduced and that there has been a great deal of criticism of the measure, because the reduction is only partly passed on? The German Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, Robert Habeck, is therefore going to tighten up the cartel legislation so that the market power of oil companies can be reduced. Is the Secretary of State talking to his German colleague, so that good ideas from our eastern neighbours can possibly be taken over? What can we learn, as far as the Secretary of State is concerned, from what we see happening in Germany with that price movement? Is there any indication of how the excise duty reduction will continue after 31 August? Well, that's significant for consideration here. Speaking of Germany, I come to the theme of 'border effects'. As a result of the recent German reduction in excise duty, there has been significant border effects. For Dutch people who are going to live at the German border, we have just seen in a whole debate that that is a stretchy concept.a big financial incentive to drive to Germany to gas. What impact does this have on Dutch gas stations in the border region? Does such border effects play a role in the decision-making process of the cabinet in reducing excise duty? In addition to efficiency, what is an important aspect of the debate, which has just been discussed extensively in an interrupting debate, this is, of course, also a consideration. We have good economic cooperation with our neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium. There are quite a few Dutch people who live abroad but work in the Netherlands. That group is now in danger of falling out of the boat. If you live in Germany, you take your gas and your power off there. This group therefore does not receive any support in the form of a generic reduction in the energy tax. Germany is also doing something to help households and middle income, but that goes through the income tax there. So, I told you, these Dutch people are out of business. Anyway, as a result of this observation, I have the question and the plea to pay more attention to this kind of border effects for people who live there and work here and vice versa, and also to a changing way of dealing with the Tax Administration in recent years. Will the Secretary of State make an inventory of this and what solutions are possible? So it goes a little further than just the word "border effects" in relation to what the differences in fuel taxes do. It's also about the point of living there, working here and vice versa. Mr. Chairman. These measures are generic in nature. An increase in excise duty goes to all consumers. The more energy and fuel a consumer consumes, the more he benefits from the tax reduction. And although you have lies, great lies and statistics, generally higher incomes benefit more than lower. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we must above all relieve the weakest shoulders. What opportunities does the Secretary of State see for meeting the lower incomes without the need for higher incomes to benefit heavily? I am also saying this because so much tax-enhancing policy is likely to push inflation further. Does the Secretary of State see that risk, too? Is this also monitored from the Treasury? The last point concerns green gas. For fossil fuels, a reduction in excise duty was introduced as from 1 April as part of the reduction in charges. At the request of me and my colleague, Mr Stoffer, that was extended to LPG. At that time I also received a commitment about propane, but I do not see it in the picture. What exactly is that about? Also CNG and green gas are not among them, while in the Netherlands there are 10,000 cars that run on green gas. So that is still a point of interest. What exactly is the situation and what can be done about it? Or is there a need for an amendment to that effect? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u112	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Romke de Jong of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Today, the codification of the VAT reduction on energy and the reduction of excise duty on fuels, decided by the Chamber with the Cabinet in March. This means that we are in a strange situation, namely that part of the legislation, the excise legislation, has already entered into force two and a half months ago and another part, the VAT reduction, must have become a reality in two weeks' time. I am going to start by explaining the context of that moment, because in February this year Russia invaded Ukraine. Fortunately, the Western countries have shown solidarity with Ukraine. Ukrainians are being generously welcomed, we are imposing sanctions against aggressive Russia. It is a fact that over the years we have become far too dependent on Russia. Our energy prices, which were already rising as a result of the raid, have just started to rise. Under steam and boiling water, the Cabinet and the Chamber have nevertheless put together a package to help Dutch to bear these rising prices. We have said from the outset that it would not be possible to compensate everyone for everything. This crisis is making us all poorer. However, we have tried to soften the blow, absolutely preventing people at the bottom from sinking through the ice due to rising prices. We've already taken a lot of measures. When prices started to rise in 2021, we allocated EUR 3.2 billion to reduce energy taxes and to provide an energy allowance to the lowest incomes. In March, we increased that energy grant by EUR 3 billion, and decided to reduce excise duties on fuel and VAT on energy for the rest of the year. In the spring note, the cabinet wants to advance the much-needed additional increase in the minimum wage and raise the unpaid travel allowance for next year. In addition, we are focusing as soon as possible on reducing energy demand by accelerating the isolation of houses. In short, there are many buttons to turn on, and we also turn on many buttons. I can imagine that following the debate on yesterday's Spring Note or the purchasing power decision in August, a decision will be taken to intervene in a different way, as this will in turn clarify price developments. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to have prepared these scenarios, including with the implementation, so that we do not have to rob each other. Yesterday, for example, there was talk about the solidarity levy. My question to the Secretary of State is: what impact does this have on implementation? What possibilities are there? In short, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to ensure that the implementation is also prepared. Last March, the Cabinet and the Chamber agreed within a few weeks on a large package, which can also be implemented quickly. The reduction in VAT and excise duty is an example of a measure that can be implemented generically and quickly. But whoever gets that lighting doesn't deserve a beauty prize. Those who consume more energy and fuel also benefit more. However, this was the way to ensure that we were able to intervene without any loss of implementation. That performance is already under great pressure. With the energy allowance we aim to help the lowest incomes. With the reduction of VAT and excise duty, we are also helping the rest. I am also thinking of the people with a modal salary at my home in Friesland who really have to use the car a few times a week to provide care, for example, or the woman in the Achterhoek who just needs her car to get to work, while her energy bill at home shoots through the roof because of a poorly insulated house. For them, these measures really make a difference. Of course, the reduction in VAT must be passed on to the energy companies. That's what we've just been talking about. In his written reply, the Secretary of State stated that he is talking to energy companies about a way to ensure that the VAT reduction is passed on to the consumer. I would therefore like to join my colleague's question on the status of this discussion. Mr. Chairman. A lot of people are having a hard time because of the high energy bill. The cabinet has earmarked billions to help them. If prices remain so high, more will be needed, as targeted as possible, to help vulnerable households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u114	Where would you start with a story like that? Energy prices were already high. All the prices were already high before the raid. It's only getting worse, but what bothers me the most in this whole list is a kind of tasty expression of the story that we're all getting poorer. Back in the day, in front of this cabinet, you had cabinets that, if there were setbacks, if there were problems with people's incomes, were going to try to help people, to do something about it. You and Mrs Kaag all the time say very nicely: yes, we are all getting poorer. Do you know who's getting poorer? Those are the people who aren't here in the Lower House, who don't have a consultant job. It doesn't bother D66s. They take good care of themselves, but ordinary people can barely make ends meet. If you had to live on a minimum salary for three, four or five months, I wonder if you would say here before the microphone that we're all getting a little poorer. That's unacceptable! So you're gonna have to do something about that. We are putting forward proposals for this. And you come up with some kind of easy story that we're going to reduce the cost of labor. Then where's the proposal? How much do you lower it? How do you cover it? How much do people get? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u115	That's like ten questions in one. I'm gonna try to put some nuance into that, too. What the PVV is doing here is saying that there is actually no problem at all. That's what you're asking. I say quite honestly here that there is also a reality in which we are losing power. That's just an honest story. You don't want to hear that. That's fine. I'll leave that to you, too. Above all, we want to see what is possible. In this list, you accuse me of not doing anything about it, but if you had listened carefully, you will hear that we are doing a great deal and that we are also prepared to do more. I just said, "Twice that package, twice EUR 3 billion." You look very surprised, but it's looking back on Debate Direct. We do a lot and we are open to doing more. You say: I have a proposal. I heard yesterday in the debate, which has not yet been concluded, that the cabinet is going to make a very serious assessment of every proposal. I think it belongs in that debate. When it comes to today's codification, I think we need to implement the measures as quickly as possible to ensure that these decisions reach the people as quickly as possible. It is not in my interest, but in all our interests, to get it as quickly as possible with the people who need it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u116	I'm not getting mad because I notice that we're falling in wealth and income. We see that correctly. Only the PVV wants to do something about it, and you're just finding out that it's happening. You say, "That's what happens to us. We need to send a lot of money to Africa. Everyone gets money and we have to save Italy for the 28th time. We all think that's important." But the PVV chooses the Dutch. We choose to make the energy cheaper, but you want to impose a heat pump of €10,000 on people. Those are the differences between our parties. I am angry because I see with you that we are declining in prosperity and that you are somehow right to do so. That's why you don't do anything for the people at the bottom. We'll do it. We come up with additional proposals for 8.5 billion, which means an average of €1,000 for people in six months. You say we're not gonna do that; we're gonna look to the future. I think that's unfair. Respond to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u117	Once again, the PVV does not want to listen to what we are doing. What I said and what we can read in the CPB report is that the reduction in excise duty does not benefit those who need it very much. The CPB report states that we need to improve people's income at the bottom. To this end, I see good proposals, such as the speeding up of the minimum wage and the Minister's commitment to the August decision-making process, Mr Idsinga referred to the possibility of increasing the burden on capital and reducing the burden on labour. 'Cause that's what it's about. Those are exactly the people you're talking about, the people who need it. Let's make sure we hit the income button together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u118	Mr De Jong talks about the government's plans in terms of 'we', also in the way he builds his senses: we do this and we do that. But he's part of the D66 Group. I would like to ask him some questions about the substance of government policy, but for me it is first of all important to know whether Mr De Jong feels the space and the responsibility to take a stand on his own. Or does he fully support all cabinet plans and therefore speaks of "we"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u119	In general, I hope that "we" arrange it here as a collective in the Chamber. 'We' stand here today in the Chamber to debate the measures that are now in place. They are about VAT and about excise duties. So, yes, I feel like you're part of this. We need to see how we can tackle this as soon as possible. As for my position within D66, I would like to separate today's debate, in which we are talking about VAT and excise duties, and yesterday's debate, which has been suspended, on all the possibilities ahead. You can ask me all kinds of questions. I am standing here as a D66 chamber member, but I have a responsibility, like you, to ensure that "we', as a Chamber, can arrange this today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u120	Sure, but I would never use the word "we" when I talk about the cabinet plans. As a member of the opposition, I would certainly not do that, but no Member of Parliament should actually do so, because we as MPs, as representatives of the people, have a duty and a responsibility to question the cabinet and to closely monitor it. I wouldn't do that. I have the following substantive question. Suppose we as a chamber today agree to this law. This leads to less revenue for the government; we accept that as MPs. But the people in society, the people at home, will of course have nothing to do with that if they are then given back those reliefs in the form of austerity. I would like to know from D66: does the D66 Group support the words of the Minister of Finance, who does not rule out cuts, or does the D66 Group want to exclude cuts? Because that would remove a lot of uncertainty in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yesterday you heard our group chairman, Jan Paternotte, also from this place, say very clearly that we are open to all the possibilities offered by the Chamber. I'm still behind those words.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u122	Fine. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr De Jong's last sentences went very quickly, but did he say that this year there really must be some extras for the groups that really are not reached, among other things by this law? Do you need some extras? D66 is committed to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u124	What I said is that we prefer to look as closely as possible now. I indicated in my speech that the vulnerability of this package lies in the unfocusedness, that it may not end up with the people you were talking about. Those are the people who really need it the most and threaten to sink through the ice. Yesterday, I heard the hand-out from the cabinet, and I heard it spoken by a lot of parties in that debate. The cabinet will now look at all the proposals and come back to them in substance. I think that is a good time to focus the debate afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u125	That's always good. I'm always crazy about government studies; we're all gonna read them. But it always helps when political parties in the Chamber say: work it out. I have just had such a debate with Mr Omtzigt about the health allowance, about how, about the variants and the advantages and disadvantages. But the principle is: it is not enough now. It hasn't been targeted enough. That means people are out of the boat who really need it. Does D66 therefore agree with the analysis that something must be done? All the variants that the cabinet develops, including with regard to the coverage, will come later, but it starts with that analysis of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u126	I always appreciate Mr Nijboer's questions, because he puts them in different terms every time, including the VVD and the CDA. So I understand very well what you're saying. I also told you that we are open to this. That is what our group chairman said yesterday. I think it is important that it is feasible; I also liked the little debate on efficiency. If you ask a yes-no question, I say yes, we are open to it and we want to take a genuine look at it. But then we need to know from the cabinet whether it is actually feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u127	Thank you. For lunch we have three more speakers on the side of the Chamber to go. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a politician, you must once in a while emphasize your historic right, and I cannot resist the temptation to do so today. If it gets difficult, but you have the basics in order, you need to do fewer emergency controls and you will also have fewer implementation problems. My party has been working for more than three decades for a fast energy transition. If we had acted on this earlier, we would now have much more cheap, renewable energy. My party has been working for decades to reduce support for fossil energy. If we had acted on this earlier, there would have been a much fairer burden in the energy tax rather than favouring large consumers at the expense of small users and SMEs. If there had previously been intervention on capital inequality in the Netherlands and capital value had been taxed, the labour for employers would have been cheaper, but we could have increased the wml, the legal minimum wage. With the link, we could have made sure that the groups that are now in serious trouble were in less trouble. I will mention that for a moment, because wrong choices have been made in the past and we are now in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u129	Was this your block "I told you so"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u130	That's your summary, but that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u131	Let me make a point of order. When communists start talking about historically right, you always have to be careful. I will forget a lot of those comments, but I will go into one thing: it is, of course, total nonsense that renewable energy is cheap. That's why we're in trouble. That costs capital, destroys countries and makes no sense. My point of order is: it is useful if we stick to the facts in the Chamber and not to weird dreaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u132	That's not a point of order, it's just an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yeah, that's not a point of order at all. It is also false facts that Mr Mulder is deliberating here. Energy from wind and sun is much cheaper than fossil. Had we had more, we wouldn't have depended on Putin and people wouldn't have had to deal with these high prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u134	We're going to the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u135	The law is about energy prices, and that's what I was talking about. I also want to go back to September last year. Then there was also a report, from TNO, that mapped out what at that time was the group of people in the Netherlands who already had to do with energy poverty. This showed that this group is concentrated among the people who have either a welfare or a bald AOW benefit. In fact, 80% of the 550,000 people were in the picture at the time. Seventy-five percent of them were hired. What happened next is that on Prinsjesdag a compensation package was agreed by the coalition, with much of it going back to people with often higher incomes. That was then repeated in March, in the package we are discussing today. Last Monday, with the CPB, we reviewed his report on the scenarios for the future. It looks ahead, while TNO looked back at what was the situation at the time. In this we see that the problems are really concentrated in the group that I and TNO mentioned earlier, the group up to 120% wml of the group between 120% and modal and a part of the group from modal to one and a half modes. The people up there can take care of themselves. They have sufficient income or sufficient reserves. Yet, in two packages, unfocused, 6 billion has been spent. This money comes to a large extent from the people who earn more than one and a half times the average. That's really problematic. I therefore hope that, in the future of the debate on the Spring Paper, it will become three times the charm. We have missed twice the opportunity to target large amounts of money, so let's do it once again, this year, to really meet the people who have the hardest. I understand that the VVD would like to have the assurance that companies will fully pass on their VAT and excise duty reductions to citizens, but of course they will not get them. That's where money leaks; we know that. It is not just the energy producers who make windfall profits. We see high inflation and rising prices everywhere that companies pass on more than necessary prices to citizens. Suppose it is not technically possible to set up a solidarity levy. Yesterday, the Secretary of State said a number of things about this: you will soon find yourself in discussions on state aid. He specifically talked about the mining tax, whether compared to England or not, because then you have more to do with locational climate. If all that is going on, I am not thinking of increasing the Vpb a little bit, to ensure that we can give a sum in hard euros this year to at least the people who are going to be able to get around this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you to Mr Van der Lee for his speech. We have taken measures to reduce VAT and excise duties. In my view, this should end up one-on-one in the pockets of the citizens, as they are consumption taxes. If consumption taxes go up, they are paid by the citizen and if they go down, it must be a relief for the citizen. Do I hear Mr Van der Lee say that he doesn't care, that he is okay with that effect being disrupted and that somewhere in that chain of government to consumer taxes hang in the pockets of others?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u137	This is a really crazy way to listen. This is not exactly what I am saying. I only note that you are choosing a route that does not directly compensate citizens, but is done through companies. And then you demand the assurance that they will pay it in full, while you have no instruments to enforce it and neither does the Secretary of State. It would have been much better to immediately focus the money much more and give it directly to citizens themselves, who would then be able to decide for themselves what to spend it on. On a ride with the car? On a ride with the O.V.? Or the high food prices or whatever? It is precisely the choice to do it by way of a detour that does not fully reach the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u138	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u139	The choice was to get that money to the citizen quickly. I would like to emphasise this here. And then the direction chosen through VAT and excise duties, in addition to all the other measures that have been taken, is not such a crazy choice of this cabinet at all. However, I would ask for the following, and I hope you will support me in that. If you choose speed, you have to do everything you can to avoid the negative effects of that speed as much as possible. You are now making a very nice show that we are in the game differently, but what I am saying is: if you make that choice, think about the collateral damage and try to limit it somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u140	Look, collateral damage must always be limited, but if you make a choice where you know there's going to be some collateral damage, it's crazy to ask the Secretary of State for insurance, even to demand that the collateral damage doesn't occur. He just can't give that insurance. It seems fair to admit that. Furthermore, I agree with Mr Idsinga: of course, these companies must fully pass it on to the citizens. And of course, companies always have to pay proper taxes and not make constructions to avoid those taxes. These are all things that we have been advocating for years. The fact is that the VVD is one of the parties, but that also applies to the PVV....who always has a big mouth, who is against tackling power inequality and has been on the brake for years in the energy transition, which means that we are now at high energy prices and have a crooked property ratio in the Netherlands, and also a group of people who have too little income to make ends meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u141	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u142	Look, I'd like to make another nuance. When it comes to the two measures we are discussing today, there is a difference between the reduction of VAT and the reduction of excise duty. The reduction in excise duty is really very devel oping. We just know that people with more money have bigger cars, often more driving and relatively much more taking advantage of that tax reduction. VAT is less self-evident. In addition, you can see that regardless of the income group, the effect is fairly similar. I charge a little bit of money, I see Mr Grinwis shaking his head, but there really is a difference. What we also know, and I really want to go there, is from another report by the Central Planning Office, on inequality and redistribution. That report actually led us to understand that we often talk about our progressive tax system but that the actual redistribution does not take place within our tax system but mainly through public spending. It is also, to a large extent, about the allowances we grant. I do not hear enough of that lesson in these discussions. We are again talking a great deal about fiscal instruments, when we know that redistribution by this route is not working enough on balance. So you're going to have to look more closely at public spending. Mr Nijboer explained our proposal and also the adjustment we made, namely a summit on the healthcare allowance, because some of the original version would not be feasible according to the Cabinet. Through this route you can reach the people we want to reach now in a leveling way. We want to be able to give them clarity before the summer, before we decide in the First Chamber on the spring note. This means that there must be clarity as to the amount of money these people will receive this year. The solidarity levy could well be the cover. If there's a problem, there's got to be an alternative cover. We can also talk about this coverage a little longer, as long as it is clear that at least €500 goes to the groups that according to the planning agency really go down through the ice. I hope that with their creativity the Secretary of State and his staff will make every effort to do so, and that the coalition will also be prepared, after three times, to genuinely opt for a very targeted compensation for the people who are really in trouble right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u143	I'm just a little confused. We look very seriously at yesterday's €500 proposal. But before that, a whole story by GroenLinks was about the fact that far too little is being done to solve the problems with the surcharges and that far too little is being discussed. GroenLinks thinks that is a big problem. It's all got to be different. But yesterday GroenLinks suggested adding the €500 to a surcharge. Is that what you're for or against? Does that bother you or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u144	There must certainly be some change in the whole supplement system. I think it is possible on paper to achieve redistribution through a better tax system. The problem is that we have not been able to do so for years, because a genuinely substantial revision of our tax system has not yet come about because of outdated systems and political unwillingness. So here, too, we are working on relatively temporary and limited measures, but the CPB notes that the redistribution in the Netherlands is due to government expenditure and not to the fact that we have redistributed our tax system to the extent necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u145	So you're maintaining that $500 proposal. I was afraid you were gonna move that in on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u146	That's a little childish, Mr. Mulder. I thought you'd be higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u147	Let me get this straight: the Central Planning Bureau indeed notes that a great deal of leveling, the fight against inequality, takes place through public spending and not through tax revenues. That's problematic, isn't it? We have to do something about that, don't we? It seemed for a moment that GroenLinks had accepted this and that we should therefore continue along this path. I hope I misunderstand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u148	I began my speech with my historical similarity, which was precisely about the adjustment of the entire tax system, where the polluter pays more and where capital, profits and capital are taxed more heavily. All this has been left behind, and that is why you are now in the situation that redistribution does not take place through the tax field, but through government expenditure. I'm not saying I'm happy with that. In fact, I note that this is the situation and that the CPB has shown this in a very interesting study. We need to finish the debate on the Spring Note for the summer, so we need to make a choice now, in the very short term. What do we do now? It is better to choose a way through public spending to give money directly to citizens in trouble, than to look for a complicated tax structure that takes time and does not allow people to get into the trouble they are entitled to in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u149	I get that. I also think we're on the same side. However, we must note that, of course, the issues we are proposing here in the short term should not contribute to the problem of the long-term problem of equalising, tackling inequality, not through taxation. That has to change, doesn't it? When we discuss this kind of thing, we must also say that this money must also be raised in terms of costs, in terms of capital and profits, so that we can move away from the system of equalising only through expenditure. That's what I've been trying to do in my own contribution. Levelling must also take place through the revenue side of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u150	But that's what I say all the time, isn't it? I'm just noticing it's not happening. And perhaps a comment in the direction of Mr Alkaya: in the August issue, there is also the question of what we are doing with box 3 when it comes to compensation for small savers. Then I hear the SP say: every saver must be compensated. This means spending an additional 2 billion on people who have a large amount of savings, who are not part of the groups that are currently in financial trouble. Then I'll know where my priorities are.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u151	For the Acts: I fully share Mr Van der Lee's analysis, including what he says about VAT. But this is, of course, specifically about a VAT reduction on the energy bill. In that case, you will have the effect of having more use in general that higher incomes benefit slightly more than lower incomes, although the difference is less extreme than in the reduction of excise duties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u152	Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u153	However, in a generic sense, it is reasonable to say where the low and high VAT rate ends up. Another lesson from the CPB investigation cited by Mr Van der Lee is that we are now seeing enormous disruptions. People have to pay a lot more for energy. Then you can see that the philosophy of internalizing negative external effects and thereby constantly increasing prices, for energy but perhaps also for food, also has a downside, namely that lower incomes that have lost a larger share of their income to that kind of primary goods, are getting extra burden. What has that insight done with the line of GroenLinks, especially since during this transition period the ideal of completely internalized negative external effects might give repercussions that we cannot and do not want to carry with each other, especially for the weakest shoulders?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u154	Okay, but that issue isn't new to us. We've realized that a long time ago. Then there is the element that someone who rents has even less ability to control energy expenditure than someone who owns a store and can make choices and make adjustments that also directly benefit financially. That is why we are also very critical of what is happening in the housing market together with the PvdA. We also want to freeze rents at the moment and especially to meet the people in the worst rental homes, with an E-, F-, or G-label, extra, because they can hardly affect their energy needs. Of course. But this insight is not new at all. That is why, together with the Christian Union, we have called for a much larger isolation programme. I can mention a whole series of measures that I advocated when I was a climate and energy spokesman. That's really not a new insight, is it? We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u155	We certainly agree on that, but I did not hear Mr Van der Lee mention it. It is a very important aspect, especially in the case of the extreme price increases that we are seeing now. It is also a reason why the tax system is less redistributing than it should work, along with a lot of other things, but that is not what the debate is about today. Indeed, I agree with Mr Van der Lee that, in the midst of all the incomplete routes, the route might be the one with the least imperfections. If you want to look at what else you could do later this year or as soon as possible, taking into account further risks to the economy, I would like to admit to Mr Van der Lee that this is indeed, weighing everything up, perhaps sometimes the route we should take. But that's what the Secretary of State's gonna study and he's gonna come back to it. That's what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u156	It's nice that you're moving in our direction. I hope your missionary work will work with the rest of the coalition. Then in two weeks' time we may come to a really solid result for the people who are really in trouble. I think we'll work it out with that coverage problem too. I did not mention a number of things, but that is also because the President does not want me to go beyond the speaking time I have given up. I'll try not to. Surely I still have to ask the Secretary of State a question: what is the fair definition of the purpose of this law? Is it about meeting every Dutchman at a time when prices have risen enormously, or do you really see this as a law that really helps the people with the biggest problems? Because, of course, that is what the discussion is about. I think you have to admit, if you are honest, that this is not the best way to meet people in the toughest problems. I also wish him a great deal of strength to come up with an executable option in a very short time for an extra concession to people who are now sinking through the ice. I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u157	Very well, thank you. We're gonna listen to Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a bill that has already been passed. Excise duties have already been reduced. And even if we were to vote against this bill, we would not be going to recover the excise duty from the people who fueled it at slightly lower petrol prices than they would have had if the excise duty had not been reduced. That's not the first time, Mr. Chairman. Last week, we adopted a motion by Mr Heinen, which refers to Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act; that is the mouse hole, the goat path, or whatever you want to call it to do this kind of thing. The motion calls for a little less use of that. I am deeply concerned that the government is making consistent use of this. We now have a rather unfocused measure here, and this certainly applies to the reduction of VAT on energy. That's very nice, but at home I have a three-year contract and people who have a fixed contract pay less for their energy this year than they ever paid, because the VAT goes down but they're still at the fixed rate. That is a huge group, which gets a reduction that really doesn't make any sense. You can see how great the needs of society are, with 1.2 million households who are going to have to choose between raising the thermostat or buying food, while they have already abolished all the variable costs. That measure is pretty unfocused, but there's nothing we can do here today. So my first question to the government is: what exactly do they want? 'Cause I'm gonna stop by the list. The Catshuis scheme has cost billions and we still haven't settled the legal basis in the law. Under a whole bunch of benefits we make to the child's parents, there's no law. This is done with policy decisions, with billions at the same time. We've got lawsuits for this. You are doing a legal treatment to weigh whether something is good or not, and whether you might need to make another change or suggest something else. As I said before, I also got a call from the Catshuis about the Catshuis scheme and said that I disagree. People with €100 damages would get €30,000, and the waiting list would be so long I didn't expect them to last four years, so I didn't know everything that people with the worst problems would be on hold for years, as is the case now. But we can't go anywhere right now. By this law ditto. The law on the €800 supplement, which was announced in December last year as €200 and two days before the elections in March €800, remains to be dealt with here. You say that is a detail, but it has still not been decided by the Court what the definition of income is based on whether you are entitled to it. You don't know this year's income, so you can ask if someone earns less than 120% of the social minimum in 2022, but you don't know that if you have a call contract. So you don't know if you're gonna get it. Those are discussions you need to have before you start cashing out. There are people waiting for that. Why am I making such a story now, Mr. Chairman? That has to do with the fact that yesterday I was shocked again by a letter from the other Secretary of State for Finance. It said that we are going to pay rent and child-related budget to the people from Ukraine who come here from next month, and that we are going to change a provision in the law on child care payments so that they will allow you to receive child care benefits if you have a partner abroad, which is not the case now. That's a wish of a part of this Chamber, but such a change has far-reaching consequences, and you'd like to talk to all of us about that before you enter it. One day after the adoption of this Chamber, which has said "be careful with 2.27," the government says: we will submit that amendment once after the summer, but we will start implementing it in July. My question then is what we are doing here as a chamber. Am I sitting here for Jan with the short last name or can I help make laws? And that's a very serious question. This year we are talking about many billions. This is also exactly what the Court of Auditors criticised. He said that 5% of expenditure has not been authorised; these are mechanisms of this kind. This means that we, as a Chamber, cannot talk about billions of expenditure here. In the coming weeks, therefore, I would like to make a clear statement on how the position of this Chamber is to be dealt with from now on. We can also meet on Saturdays in absolute emergency situations. I have no problem with that. We have done so in the case of covid emergency laws and bank support, but not in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u159	A fine line under Mr Omtzigt's plea, but I would like to put the following question to him. How does he see the dilemma between, on the one hand, the huge disruption caused by the crisis caused by Ukraine and Russia and, on the other hand, the increase in fossil energy and food prices and, on the other hand, the attempt to intervene in the interim over a financial year, where the number of instruments is limited and sometimes a decision has to be taken very quickly? What, in his view, is a fair appeal to Article 2.27 of the Compatibility Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u160	First of all, when the government announces it, I expect the bill to be submitted as a matter of real urgency. However, we have not seen this with this €800 measure. It was announced in December. The amount was increased from €200 to €800 in March, two days before the elections, and the proposal is still in the Chamber. That's an example of how it shouldn't be. The legislation before us is much more enforceable. That tax cut, you can be for or against it. By the way, I will come to the border effects. The question also arises as to how much is left in your tank when excise duties are reduced. There's another piece in there that we should have talked about. There is an extra 20 million for this because not everything could be measured. But apart from that, it's executable with the petrol and diesel vendors in this country. I'm actually expecting the immediate submission of legislative proposals at that time. I therefore find it very vulnerable, particularly where far-reaching proposals are concerned, that we are now going to say to these Ukrainian refugees: there is a reservation from the Chamber, because these people have no idea what that means. We are faced with the problem, because if we say afterwards, in October or November, that you were not entitled to the childcare allowance, then we will get the same story as we had with the refunds with the parents. Because then, as a government, you've been expecting you to work with the child care allowance from July, when we're going to say in November: no, we're not going to do that. What do you do? Are you going to recover five months of child support? I don't think that's possible. The alternative is emergency legislation and that I come back from recess and deal with what needs to be done in July. If anything else has to happen, I'll be back. These are billions of interventions, and we are well paid as MPs, 15 weeks of recess. If we have to come back a week, no problem. Mr President, the border effects. Let me read from the explanatory statement. "Germany has announced a reduction in excise duties to the minimum rates for a period of three months. For diesel, this represents a reduction similar to that in the Netherlands and a stronger reduction for petrol. As a result, we expect that the reduction in the Netherlands will not cause any significant change in the border effects even at the German border." It's literally there, while the difference is €0.45. Now I really live in the border region. The only real gain from this debate is that everyone now thinks they live in the border region, when I normally live alone. In Enschede, I'm really the only one filling up at the pump, really the only one. And it's crazy. Is there any insight into how bad this is for the border region? I don't know how to talk to the pump holders anymore. They don't have to open the pump, because they're more lost to the ones sitting there than to the gasoline that's being fueled there, unless they have a shop there. There's no one in Enschede who thinks, "I'm not driving to Gronau, nobody." If you want to come, Secretary of State, I'll take you to Glaner Bridge, take you to Denekamp, to the places that are right on the border, where there are large gas stations where you can have a football game. Afraid there's a car coming by, you don't have to be there. Because it's the only place where you're sure there won't be any cars. There'd be good research. This is a perfect test of how prices work at the border. Please do it, because we'll never have to do this kind of thing again. I don't have a solution right now, but I'd like to see that investigation at the end of what happened here. Because if this is the way European cooperation is going, we all have a really big problem. This means something for supermarkets, because when people start filling up across the border, they also go shopping and shopping. This has a really big impact on the local economy. My cri de coeur is: come along for the next few months, see it with your own eyes, so that in a next round it can be taken into account. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u161	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Stoffer of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u162	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I apologise for not attending Mr Eppink's speech. I understood there was a well-prepared part in it for me, but I'll look it back. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Grinwis. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is een beetje als bij Jozef, dat je de uitleg uit Genesis 41 hebt waargenomen.]] Brother Grinwis, that does me good. Joseph and the brothers weren't doing very well either. They sometimes had a bit of a fuss about that, but when it comes down to it, we help each other in need. That is of course in the band we have in the Jozef. All right, Mr. Chairman, so much for the great Canaans. Now just the Supplementary Tax Purchasing Power Act. I have said it many times: the purchasing power of families and households and so on has been declining lately. I have heard that, fortunately, colleagues see that as well, but it is very unfortunate that it is. The consequences of the war in Ukraine are clearly noticeable at the pump. The effects of rising inflation, partly due to the ECB's policy, are felt in the supermarket and also in the energy account. For a large part of the households, these blows come very hard. It is very good that the cabinet therefore supports the purchasing power of vulnerable households, but as far as we are concerned, it should really end up with those vulnerable households, i.e. more focused on them. I'll get back to you on that. Because, as far as we are concerned, we simply cannot compensate everyone for the increased prices. There is no free money. The account of this compensation package must also be paid. The cabinet has chosen to use the windfalls from the gas benefits. In doing so, I must say that we are once again failing to comply with budgetary agreements by mixing the revenue and expenditure of the public authorities. My question is therefore also why the cabinet has chosen to do so. Why was it again chosen not to comply with the budgetary rules? Mr. Chairman. Public expenditure must also be effective. We must not just throw money around, but we must spend the money of our citizens and businesses, because that is what it is, in the end, targeted and customised. The SGP, like the Council of State for example, is critical of the effectiveness of the legislative proposal. Because we support all households, we really don't support anyone. My question is whether there really was no more customization possible. In the previous compensation package at the end of last year, we saw exactly the same unfocusedness. It cannot be that we can solve such major problems, which require tailor-made solutions, only with huge generic packages. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to go into that. Mr. Chairman. The compensation package should be much more targeted and fair. In particular, the SGP has concerns about the reduction of VAT on energy. In my opinion, it is mainly in favour of higher incomes; so we are looking at something different than GroenLinks. High incomes often use more power, for example because they live in a larger house. The result of the VAT reduction is: the greater the energy consumption, the higher the benefit. While the SGP stands to help, in particular, low incomes and middle incomes. Mr. Chairman. In order to make the compensation package more targeted, we have therefore tabled an amendment. We propose that the VAT reduction budget be used to increase the tax reduction in the energy tax. That's a fixed discount that everyone gets, regardless of energy consumption. As a result, low incomes and middle incomes benefit relatively more. The cabinet itself admits that. Our proposal would start with 1 January 2022, i.e. with retroactive effect. It also allows people to feel it directly in the wallet. The cabinet discussed the implementation aspects of increasing the tax reduction in the energy tax in a letter of Parliament. This shows that this amendment is enforceable for the Tax Administration. This removes an earlier important argument from the cabinet against this increase. The letter also states that the increase is difficult to implement for energy suppliers. We understand, of course, that implementation costs are increasing for them, but I believe that the additional cost of implementing energy suppliers does not outweigh the major financial problems that many households face. My question is therefore whether the government agrees with the SGP. I have, of course, the question as to why the cabinet did not choose this route. An additional advantage of the amendment is that it is actually felt by households. The benefits do not remain with the energy suppliers, which may happen with the VAT reduction, and the tax reduction is fully cashable. So if the energy tax is lower than the discount, households still get the tax discount. I would like to hear a response from the cabinet to my amendment. Mr. Chairman. We had the debate on responsibility last week. We discussed respect for the Court's budget law and sound financial management. This bill runs counter to that. As has already been said, excise duties were already reduced on 1 April and the VAT reduction is already being introduced in two weeks' time. As a Chamber, we cannot actually influence this EUR 2 billion expenditure anymore. Why didn't the cabinet wait? That's our question too. That can be done very quickly; see the KLM debate, which we have completed in recent weeks. I want to look ahead, because you can keep looking back, but that doesn't help. How are we going to prevent this in the future? Finally, Mr President. The reduction in VAT on energy should be made available to energy users, households. However, the VAT reduction has to be reflected in the prices by the energy suppliers, but the government indicates that there is no insight into this. We also understand as SGP that this is difficult, because these energy prices are fluctuating enormously, but we are surprised that the government does not even intend to keep an eye on this either. Then how do we know that this measure is effective? How do we know that the objective of this measure is being achieved? What is possible, then, is, of course, my real question in the end, to monitor the effectiveness of the measure? I am considering a motion on this point depending on the answer. (NL) Mr President, all in all. The SGP is critical of this bill, especially as the VAT reduction does not reach those most in need of it. I therefore hope for a positive response to my amendment, which at least makes it even more focused. I'm curious to hear the answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u163	We all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-16-tweedekamer-6.u164	I'm suspending until 2:15 p.m. Then we'll vote first and then we'll listen to the Secretary of State.
