ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u1	We are going through the debate on the Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u2	In the first term of the government, I am happy to give the floor to the Minister. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Members for their input. It is indeed a good thing that we can talk about this bill here, because with this bill we are actually working to increase the guarantees for the Netherlands, for our residents, in terms of digital public services under the General Administrative Law. Because, of course, the General Administrative Law is always the basis for all other regulations. All other administrative bodies must therefore follow the rules of the General Administrative Law if they want to take a decision and will also have to use them as a starting point in working in the digital environment. Several members have indicated that this has different sides. As Mrs Van Weerdenburg pointed out, digitalisation can indeed provide better services on the one hand, because you can do things faster. On the other hand, it is also important that you have guarantees for both companies and individuals to ensure that if you use them and it doesn't work well digitally, you can say to the government in case of such a disturbance: it didn't work, so I can file it at a later date. That is also indicated here. So these are important points to grasp, because ultimately it also provides legal protection for individuals. It ensures that people can fall back on something and that there is a foundation on which to act with the government both through paper and digitally well designed. This is indeed about the balance between practicability and practicality, as Mrs Rajkowski pointed out. This is also about customization and trust in the government and a paper trail that should always be available. You should not undermine the possibilities for customisation and the importance of user-friendliness of the digital road. Mr. Chairman. In this context, several questions have been asked about how this law should be seen in relation to the fact that every individual, every person, must be able to make use of the contact with the government, and that at the moment when one way cannot be done, the other way must always be available. If you look further back, are we talking about more guarantees or other guarantees here? How do we see that, for example, in relation to the government's actions on a number of other issues, where you can all say that we need to learn from them and take new steps in them? Several members asked: has there been sufficient response to the concerns about creating these additional safeguards in different areas? Or is there still room for improvement in what is written here? It is good to go through a number of points: on the one hand, the opinion of the Council of State and, on the other hand, the broader opinion of the Council of State on the operation of the government as a digital partner. I start by saying that this proposal regulates the paperwork for individuals, for people, just stays open forever. That's an important guarantee. This bill also stipulates, for example, that if something goes wrong, for example with the processing in MijnGovernment.nl, the burden of proof no longer lies with the citizens, with the people who use it, but that the burden of proof will lie with the government. That is also very important in this human-oriented approach. This concerns the burden of proof as to whether or not something went well. This concerns, for example, whether or not a message has been received. This is one of the examples that shows that there has actually been a difference in perspective compared to the classic Awb, which is not the issue. Mrs Leijten asked whether this bill complied with the opinion of the Council of State on digitalisation and administrative justice legislation. I think it is important to start with this, because that is the basic starting point. Mrs Leijten is concerned about whether this has been properly processed. That opinion contains six points. Let me summarize this briefly. The Council of State sometimes makes longer sentences and I do not want to formulate very classical texts. The first is to ensure a human-oriented approach. This bill ensures that the paperwork and the digital road continue to exist, so that people also keep the digital road. There must also be appropriate support for this. We now have those digital information points for that. But there will be no duty. I shall deal with Mrs Leijten's amendment on this point later. However, as Mrs Van Weerdenburg has already pointed out, formal legislation can make sure that companies are exempt from digital work only. Only then will this Chamber always be there itself. We have said in this bill that only by law in a formal sense, i.e. by law passing through the Second and First Chambers, can you opt for a digital exception for companies. This is an amendment to the opinion of the Council of State. The second point in the opinion of the Council of State is that, at the earliest possible stage, an integral digital technology and the method of processing data should be included. At that point you can say that our old provisions, which are now in the General Administrative Law Act, no longer meet the present time and that there is no longer a suitable solution for everyone. That's why we're making this bill right now. We have also added some extra safeguards because if you are now sending messages to the government, a number of things are also just extra arranged, for example that you get the right to use an electronic message as well. It is conceivable that a number of governments say: no, you have to take a letter and send it by registered mail; if you do not, you have a problem. I also know a lot of people who don't have stamps at home and have to think about where you get them. So that's one side, but on the other side, that paperwork has to be left and the mandatory acknowledgement of receipt that's in there right now. What I also think is an important element in this bill is that in the current situation you will receive a very comprehensive form from the government. Then you have to fill out everything, but there are always a few questions between which you think: isn't that what this is about? This bill also stipulates that the government is not allowed to do so anymore, because if you send it without having filled in boxes 1, 2 and 3, which you think is "not about at all," then you cannot send the form. With this bill you also get a right to do something with it and the government should not ask more than is necessary. Then the right to copy the data entered. How often does it happen that you send it to the government and then think afterwards: I should have taken a print screen or a picture of what you submitted, because you never get it back from the government? Then you get a reaction four months later and then you think to yourself: what exactly did I do? That's taken care of here, too. It is also provided for in the case of a failure that the government cannot say: you have not been on time. No, then there is also a responsibility for the government to just shape that well and say: yes, there was a malfunction at the time. The mandatory notification is also there. I will come back to that a little more in detail later. These are all matters that are extra regulated in relation to today, which are really human-oriented and do something digitally on the front, including the burden of proof. Now it's true that if it doesn't go well with a message box like that, you're the one who has to say to the government: it didn't go well. It's very difficult, because what do you have to steer to show that it didn't work out, because of a malfunction or otherwise? But that is now just going to be in the government on the basis of Article 2.25. If you send a message and if you process a message, you will receive it in data processing. I think that is very important, and we are taking steps forward in relation to the current situation. Mr. Chairman. Point four is: be transparent and verifiable in the automated implementation of laws and regulations. That is a point that this legislative proposal is not about, because this is not about automated decision-making. This is about what rights citizens have when it comes to using electronic transmission and what obligations the government has to comply with it. I have just mentioned a number of things for that. There is also a fifth point: ensure a good balance between automated and non-automated implementation of legislation. Of this we state very clearly that there should also be appropriate support when you fail to come out. That is clearly stated here. The second direction is, therefore, I am also pleased with the letter of amendment....... that we now also have structural money to set up these digital information points properly and to do so for a long time. Pay sufficient attention at the front to the conditions and rules of play for the support and execution of government ICT and data usage by private parties. As functional requirements for the communication techniques to be used are clear, it will also be easy for private system providers to know what they have to comply with. That also goes for one of the things Mrs Rajkowski mentioned and Mrs Van Weerdenburg mentioned, namely that you want to do the same and that you recognise it when you use the system, because you do it in other systems as well. Very important is that if you want to go a digital way with companies, that can only be done by laws in a formal sense. This is an important change in relation to the Council of State. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Wij hadden er eerst nog in staan dat het ook bij algemene maatregel van bestuur kan.]] Mrs Leijten also knows that this does not have to go through the Chamber. That is published somewhere and afterwards everyone thinks: how is this possible? I think it is right that the Council of State has addressed us and said that this can only be done by law in a formal sense. You have to have a good debate about it to do that. We had put that notification in as a kind of voluntary, but the Council of State said: that cannot be done; you must send an acknowledgement of receipt. I fully support that, and it is now mandatory in this bill. This also applies to the mandatory acknowledgement of receipt. There is also a broad approach, in the sense that the burden of proof does not lie with the person using the system of data processing by the government. So it's not like you have to do that, but the government has to say afterwards: yes, this didn't go well or this did go well; here's the proof of that. The conclusion to me is, at least, that we can say that the Council of State had some very valid points. On these points, we have too quickly aligned a few things in the original proposal. You can say that we have now incorporated it into the proposal. I believe that it is much clearer in relation to the current provisions what the safeguards are and also what the rights of people who use digital systems in their communication with the government are. The conclusion to me on this point is also the answer to Mrs Dekker's question, but Mrs Leijten made the request: I would not go back to the Council of State in this case, because I think that we simply have an improvement on the current system on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u4	The Minister is, of course, defending the legislative proposal that has been made and is now in the final stage, namely parliamentary approval. Four years ago, I believe on 15 May 2018, the Council of State advised not to send this bill to the House of Representatives and formulated six points that pose a problem, as well as three comments and recommendations. What is the problem, then, with the adjustments that have been made and the defence of the minister here, of leaving it with the Council of State? After all, the Chamber and the Government have just received a report from the Temporary Committee on Implementing Organisations, which states that legislation needs to be more careful. We are jointly the legislative power. Then what is against embracing this advice now and saying: as a precaution, we are doing so? If the Minister really succeeds with flying colors, isn't that what we want? At the moment when the Council of State says 'we are actually still seeing objections', we can still improve things in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u5	Following the opinion of the Council of State, of course, there has also been a letter of amendment, as I have just explained. A number of things the Council of State indicated, we've better dealt with. I mention the acknowledgement of receipt, the obligation to notify and two other cases that were still in it. So we've followed that up. What I suggest more broadly on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State of June 2021 is that this proposal contains precisely that human-oriented approach, as well as the fact that you create more safeguards and that you place more responsibility on the government to take care of matters properly for those who use the system. Also on the basis of history, my conclusion, as a successor to my predecessor, is that this bill is simply a good step forward. That letter of amendment has been an important point for me. Apart from that, I say to Mrs Leijten: I never think that the Chamber is the last step in the process; it is actually the most important step in the process. In the end, that is the co-legislator who is looking at whether or not a proposal is acceptable and whether we are all working it out properly. So I will never call it the last step, I say to Mrs Leijten. It's a very important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u6	The Minister knows what I mean. Law-preparation has been going on for a long time. You're on that train, and it's gonna have to be approved for a while. That's how it's actually seen sometimes. I don't hear very well from the Minister what's against it. It is a serious request from the SP Group that it should really go to the Council of State again. That may be short, but it was such a fundamental rejection. It's about the General Administrative Law Act. We know what went wrong. We are not in a good mood and this is an important change. It's also important that we get it right, so we don't want to miss anything. What's against going to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u7	That's two things. First of all, the Council of State can give various opinions to the government: it is good, it is good with comments, or it is good after you have changed it. The last thing the Council of State can say is that you really shouldn't do this. The Council of State has indicated that the cabinet needs to change a number of things to ensure that this can be properly implemented. We have made a letter of amendment in which we have incorporated a number of things well. You ask the Council of State for advice when you still have doubts as to whether it has been properly designed. I am convinced that we are doing well with this bill. The second important argument is that there are also a number of additional issues to be dealt with for those who use the system. There will be safeguards that are not available at the moment. On the contrary, I would choose to go ahead with this bill, because we have these safeguards and legal protection is so much stronger. That is not the case at the moment on the basis of the General Administrative Law Act. I would like to go on, because I want people to be able to say to a government: "I was allowed to ask for a delay because there was a disturbance and it is up to the government to prove that it was not received properly. Fortunately, I finally get the acknowledgement of receipt that says something substantive rather than just a vague text with which I can't get any further." That's what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u8	Good. The Minister has no doubt; the Minister sees nothing but light. It's all still to be carried out and arranged. We know that things are quite different from what we intend to do with a law. If the Minister learns that there is doubt in the Chamber, could that still be a consideration to give the co-legislator the assurance that it is right? We are on the right track and we are not making mistakes, but we have talked about the Van Dam Committee talking about too harsh laws. The Bosman Committee said that the co-legislative task was not taken seriously. Those are harsh judgments. If there is any doubt in the Chamber, then why would the Minister not agree with that argument to submit it again as a co-legislator?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u9	I would like to use this debate to take Mrs Leijten with me in my belief that this will enable us to take good steps forward. Of course, the Chamber can always call me by majority to ensure that I go to the Council of State again, but I do not see the added value of that at the moment. Mrs Leijten knows that I too will do so when I see the added value of this and feel that we can do it better on a number of points. At the moment, people are deprived of certain safeguards that we can regulate with this bill. I would prefer to continue because it creates additional rights and guarantees for those who do not have them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u10	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u11	I regret that a motion must therefore be tabled and that the co-legislator is not given the assurance that this task will be properly carried out. This is a very important change, and I absolutely agree with the Minister. There must be guarantees, but there are also serious concerns. I have heard it from all the parties, even though there are only four of them here in this debate. Of course, the Minister is defending her bill, but I regret that it has to come to a motion and to opposition-coalition thing whether we can take our task seriously here. I do not think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u12	I always appreciate the way Mrs Leijten does legal work. Like many other MPs, she really looks at the different aspects of the law and how it works. But Mrs Leijten and I differ on this point. I just see that we are taking some really good steps here. The request to the Council of State is often made only when there are really serious objections. My question is also where Mrs Leijten's concern lies. On the contrary, we are ensuring that a number of responsibilities become more public and that the citizen has better guarantees than he currently has. That is a question I would like to put back to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u13	I was wondering if, if there is still a need in the Chamber for a look from the Council of State, the Minister would be able to estimate how many months of delay that would result. Of course, we have to get on with this law, which has been there for a long time. I share that sentiment. But how much delay would we actually delay? If that's not the objection, maybe it's the walk of shame? You just said it only happens if there are serious objections. Then it's like you're not sure about your own law if you ask me again. In this case, perhaps we should step over that for a while and just consider that as care, rather than that it means that you are not sure that you are in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u14	If there had been no letter of amendment, I would have told Mrs Van Weerdenburg that we should have done so. But I have just seen that we have properly addressed the concerns of the Council of State in the letter of amendment on a number of points. If it hadn't been for it, I might have sent a letter to the Chamber earlier to ask if she still wanted to give me time to do some more business. The Council of State has issued nine months on the previous opinion. Then the opinion of the Council of State comes out. Then, as a cabinet, we must, of course, send a proper response to it. Then there is often a written round in the Chamber. Then there will be another plenary session. At least we'll be further along in time. Mr. Chairman. A number of other questions have been asked. Mrs Rajkowski asked whether the security for receiving and sending digital messages was ensured. The legislative proposal provides for a number of obligations for administrative bodies to ensure security in the digital transmission and reception of messages. When a message is sent, someone always receives an acknowledgement of receipt. It's now being recorded in black and white. When someone receives a message, they always receive a notification. That notification text contains, in legal terms, nature, legal effect and time-limit. Now you get a notification message with: thank you very much for the piece you received. But you also want to know: what did I receive it for, when can I expect a reaction and what is the follow-up step? These are: nature, legal effect and term. That's what we're going to document now. So you don't just get a cat bell anymore, but there's really a good message coming. If it turns out that this notification has not arrived, the administrative body, the government, should do something about it. It may send another message, but if it doesn't arrive, it will eventually have to contact you, or via the post "Of course," or in some cases by telephone. That's a choice that can be made. That's what this bill says. The same applies to registered mail. You will now receive an acknowledgement of receipt which the government, the governing body, is obliged to send. If the government sees that it's not coming, then she has to do something with it and she can't leave it. I would like to stress once again that it was about the purple crocodile, which we do not want to have together in this Chamber, that the General Administrative Law really clearly states that the electronic road is not mandatory. Each administrative body must therefore continue to offer a paper trail. So everyone can also continue to offer by mail. If we want to make an exception to this and do so by electronic means, we must do so by law in a formal sense. Then it is up to this Chamber itself to hold the debate whether it is desirable or not. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the issue of wild growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u15	They're reassuring words. That is indeed nice, especially if it goes through the law in a formal sense. We are simply on the buttons. That's very nice. I try to translate the nature et cetera into ordinary jip-and-janneketal. Do I understand correctly that if you get such a notification of a message that you really don't want to miss, it also says in the notification in your e-mailbox that the message is from the IRS and that you have to respond within two weeks? Then people know, like, "I'm on vacation now. I see I have a message from My Government. I'm gonna have to take a look now before I get back."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u16	Yes, that's nature, legal effect and term, but that's basically normal human translation. It's about understandable language in legislation; thank you for doing the translation for us. Mr. Chairman. Then prevent proliferation of inboxes. That is also a question from Mrs Rajkowski. The bill does indeed offer people the guarantee to be notified with every new message, no matter what message box the message is in, such as MyGovernment or the surroundings of an administrative body. As a result, they also have their own overview. At the moment 450 government organizations are already affiliated with MyGovernment and the Message Box. So that's going the right way. At present, government organizations and Logius are working on the development of the Federation Messages System. This is a structural solution for preventing double storage. The purpose of this is to have a single overview of all his messages and to have them recorded in a uniform and unambiguous manner. The messages are self-accessible from the warehouses of the participating parties or in the warehouse of MyGovernment and the Message Box. This prevents double storage. More government organisations are expected to join the Federal Messages System. The Secretary of State is working hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u17	We are now at 450 organisations, but of course that is going to be much and much more. Do I understand correctly that as a resident of the Netherlands, you only have to keep an eye on the Federation Messages System when you have indicated that you want to communicate digitally with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mrs Rajkowski pointed it out. We are now working hard to take steps in this direction, so that there is more clarity. But we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u19	When will there be more clarity? Can we say, for example, that at the end of the year 1,000 organisations are connected?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u20	I will come back to that, but that is, of course, also a path of the Secretary of State. I'll make sure that in the second term I know exactly what the planning is for. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u21	Do I hear a bit of a change of heart in this? In response to the first opinion of the Council of State, there is, in fact, a very comprehensive paragraph with a plea, a kind of counter-argument, against compulsory standardisation, such as the right to the individuality of government organisations and the need for customization. It can also lead to high costs if existing automated systems need to be replaced. So that was actually very much like: no, we shouldn't do that. The story I'm hearing from the Minister sounds very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u22	You can see that the Secretary of State for Digitisation is of course very busy making sure that when the digital road is used, people can also deal with it. This means that, as with the signage on the roads, you want there to be a certain familiarity in it. You can organize that in different ways. That's what the Secretary of State is doing. In the second term, I shall come back to exactly what it is going to go through with regard to the Federal Messages System. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten also asked: how does it work if a message is not properly delivered? Then how are we going to get back in touch? I still think it is important to go into that in detail, because those are the moments, like the wrong letter that is worried, where you sometimes end up in a difficult situation with the government, which you do not want. The legislative proposal is primarily aimed at restoring this electronic contact if it appears that notifications cannot be delivered repeatedly. The occasional failure to deliver a notification does not need to indicate a broken contact. It may be a temporary disturbance or a user who is in the process of switching to a new email address or other notification mode. So as a government you have to try several times to make sure that the message arrives anyway. The moment you get it back, there is a duty under the General Administrative Law to contact you in a different way as a government. So you'll have to see if you can reach people by mail or, for example, by phone. That was planted here. It can't be that you leave it at the moment you get the message back several times. You have a duty to take one step further and to make sure you reach another in another way. But Mrs Leijten mentioned another situation. That's the situation when you have a temporary malfunction, because that's the other situation we all know about. At one time a year when you think to yourself "and now I'm going to work to fill out those forms," it says: the website is out of use. Article 2:21 states very clearly that an administrative body may extend in the event of a malfunction. That's a jurisdiction. Mrs Leijten says: yes, but at some point this disturbance may take so long that there is an overrun of the deadline within which the person should have sent that message. If you look at the third member, you can see that you can't say to the person who wanted to send that message: we had an overrun because of a disturbance. No, then you'll have to remove that disturbance. So even if the administrative board does not explicitly extend the deadline, the person sending the message will still be protected. This is dealt with in 2:21, third paragraph. When it comes to crime and fraud, there is, of course, a broader duty for governments. When that kind of thing happens, you have to make sure that you also inform the users of the system about what is in circulation. You can also provide support through the helpdesk of, for example, implementation organisations at the time of such events, so that you can provide further information. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dekker also asked a question about people who can't come well. They can't be locked out. Exactly. The law includes a duty of care for the support of people. That is why I also welcome the fact that the third letter of amendment now provides us with a legal basis for financing the digital information point, which the Secretary of State is also working very hard on. You can do that with libraries. It's supposed to stay in such places, but in some cases a library is also quite a threshold for people to step in. There are people who have never been to the library in their lives. So, in some neighbourhoods, you'd better have a neighborhood office. Mrs Leijten's question was: is 20.95 million sufficient? At least it is a big extra investment, because last year it was 3.5 million. We're really moving forward. We're investing very heavily. We currently have 450 information points spread across the Netherlands. From the Secretary of State for Kingdom Relations and Digitisation I understand that this year she will also conduct an exploitation and policy evaluation study on the operating costs of the information points. The fact that this money will become available is more money than there was, so it does not mean that we stop thinking about whether this is enough or that other things are needed. The Secretary of State is going to see if this is good and sufficient, and also whether the establishment is good. Mrs Van Weerdenburg spoke about the visually impaired. That is a very valid point. Therefore, it is important that the paper mode remains accessible, but that there is also appropriate support, so that you can also have a contact that can help you fill out the forms. It is indeed sometimes extremely difficult for people with visual impairment to communicate with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u23	I was not talking so much about visual limitations, although that is also an important category, but about people who are more visual. Then you are digitally skilled and you could do it all digitally, but it just works better and you prefer it. Those are people who can, but still prefer the other route.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u24	I do recognize the cell phone with the yellow post-it. I gotta tell you, I do that sometimes. But for that, when the papers are open, people can use them. But these are the people for whom the appropriate support is often less needed, because they can also find the paper trail well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u25	How far has the Minister responded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u26	I come to Mrs Leijten's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u27	And are you done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think so, Mr President, but it is up to Members to decide whether I have answered the questions correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u29	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten's amendment. I ask Mrs Leijten if she can support me if I do not explain it quite correctly. As I understand it, Mrs Leijten wants to regulate in the amendment that at least companies can continue to use paper when necessary, but maintains her amendment that the digital road can still be prescribed for companies. My question is whether this is the intention of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u31	No, that is not the intention of this amendment. We do not want any distinction to be made between natural persons, entrepreneurs and other legal entities in relation to contact with the government. Otherwise you can end up in all discussions of: "Yes, I did this as a natural person," "no, you did that as an entrepreneur" or "no, you did that as a zzp'er." We don't think that's good for the character of the law and what you want to settle. The intention is that we should settle just as well with our legal support.... that we no longer make that distinction, so that contact with the government is the same for everyone in the Netherlands. No distinction, no border discussions, no possible legal swamp you can end up in. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you for this clarification. Then Mrs Leijten actually says that we are talking about Article 2:7 of the law on natural persons always keeping the paperwork open. Mrs Leijten said that this should also apply to companies or legal persons. In fact, the situation cannot arise that only the digital road is there. Yes. This is now dealt with in Article 2:7, third paragraph. By doing so, the cabinet regulates in this law that, exceptionally, by law in a formal sense, you can sometimes choose the digital way for companies and legal entities. There's still one point to that. This amendment does not, technically, exactly regulate Mrs Leijten's intention. In this law, we have chosen to be able to deviate by law in a formal sense from an exclusively digital way. It is also a deliberate consideration for the Chamber to do so. I would like to keep that in mind because I see the importance of asking companies to do certain processes digitally because it is faster and gives clarity. At the same time, you also need to ensure that there is support for those who cannot follow that, for example a zzp'er who is working as an entrepreneur, to help on that digital road. That is just what happens in practice. So I would like to keep in mind the structure of this law that is now in it, namely that by law you can deviate in a formal sense in order to do the electronic way for companies and legal entities. I think it's a good thing that the Chamber is about that. I would point out that this does not mean that people cannot ask for help in using that digital way through a company or company. If Mrs Leijten says that paper should always be possible for companies, then I would advise against the amendment, because I can imagine that, as is already happening in some areas of policy, there is only a digital road. But if you don't get out of it, then of course there should be support for using that digital road. I do not have the final text, but on the basis of the intention I say to Mrs Leijten: I do not share it entirely, and I therefore advise against the amendment. You have to give the Chamber room to make that decision. At the moment, a number of processes are completely digital. I would like to point out that if people have difficulty in making use of it, then there must be good support to help them do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u33	Fine. A question from Mrs Rajkowski.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u34	I was able to chew on the registered mail. I would like to ask another question on this before we enter the second deadline. I was pleased with the answer that is contained in such a notification much more information. That's, I think, very nice. I'm not a lawyer; I didn't go to law school. Is this really the same, but in the digital version, sending registered mail? Shouldn't we arrange something like that people with a DigiD can put up some kind of digital signature there's a lot of other programs for.... just like you have to sign if you receive registered mail? My problem lies in the question of whether it will all be legally correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u35	That's a nice legal question. I will come back to that in the second term. It's been a long time since I've sent registered mail. But I do remember: you're standing at a post office or somewhere else and you sign your agreement with shipping underneath. You often give such an agreement with digital forms: you agree to send. So you could compare that with each other being the same. And when the mail is received, you'll get a message that it is. That's what happens with a notification. Is putting the classic signature when filling out the web form you're dealing with, or the Message Box or an inbox, the same authorization as the registered post? I think that is a very nice, technical, legal question, which is also important in terms of content. I shall come back to that in the second term. But I think it's about the same. But it's good to spend a few more minutes on that. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u36	Very good. I'm suspending... oh, Mrs. Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u37	Before we enter the second term. I think I missed one more question. I asked: can we also make the phone number available and communicate actively? I also asked whether the Minister agrees with me that this is desirable and whether she can check whether it can be done at all and how much it will cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u38	I don't have that insight right now. We do know that a lot of organizations do have a phone number. The question is, how can you find out? We also didn't get a quick look at how to do that exactly. We do see that municipalities are often still on the phone, and other organisations are often on the phone. I can see that I did not report this. I'll come back to that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u39	All that comes in the second term. I'll suspend for a few minutes and then we'll go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u40	The next item is the second term. I call Mrs Rajkowski.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr President, thank you. Thank you, too, to the Minister for the reply and the fine debate, I should like to say 'conversation' which we have had. It's also nice that we can do it this way in this room. Communicating as you please. So we heard: paper stays, desk stays; and if it goes to digital, someone can turn it in themselves. If there are any desires to make that compulsory, it always goes through the Lower House and we can always lie down for it. So that's nice. Two more things. The Minister stated in her first reply that she would return to us in the Chamber on the timeline of that Federation Messages System. I have every confidence that she will. Only, I do not have a third term, so I am going to ask for a commitment to inform the Court of Justice about this. And the second point I have is actually that way. I have a motion on registered mail. I'm gonna file that, too. If this is no longer necessary after the second deadline has been answered, or should it need to be adjusted, I will simply do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that registered mail provides security that the recipient has received important information by post;]] [[Whereas digital means of communication are becoming a possibility of communicating with the public authorities;]] [[invites the Cabinet to carry out further investigations into the possibilities of sending registered mail also digitally, including a receipt, and before this is legally properly arranged, to hold the usual routes such as letter post for everyone for sending registered mail, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rajkowski.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35261-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u43	Then Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u44	The opinion contains a number of fundamental comments on the legislative proposal. The group of citizens who are less self-reliant will grow if the papers are cut off. The government has a duty to support such citizens, but this duty of care is weakly formulated. Each administrative body shall determine how electronic messages may be transmitted to it. The proposal offers hardly any standardisation and structure, which can lead to differences that the citizens have not established. In addition, there is no certainty that wrongly transmitted messages will be handled. The risks associated with electronic traffic are placed on a one-sided basis with the citizen. The wordings are abstract and therefore, although the proposal is technologically independent, it is de facto strongly based on existing techniques. As a result, there is uncertainty as to whether it is sufficiently sustainable in the long term, but it does not provide concrete guarantees focused on specific techniques. The proposal has implications for a large part of the Awb, but is not integrated into the system of chapters of titles in this law, which can lead to interpretation problems. In Chapter 6, the Section makes and does 'because you already understood it, Mr President, I read the opinion of the Council of State; or at least the introduction of it, because it would not be appropriate at all; some comments and recommendations, which are in short: rule on general safeguards in technology-independent form; rule on concrete safeguards, where possible, focusing on existing techniques; allow for temporary derogation from the law, aimed at accommodating technical innovations. It's a big deal when that's how it's judged on a bill. And then the minister says, "I solved it all." But at the same time she doesn't say: no, that contact, that paper contact with that government that's about to change, that's coming closer to people who are going to speak understandable language, that you can call, we don't do for companies. So we don't do that forzzp'ers. That's the same government that doesn't have fakes enough in the picture, let alone fights. I am really sorry that the Minister has allowed a motion to be tabled, but I am going to table it anyway. After all the lessons we have had, I hope that the Chamber will decide to go to the Council of State for careful legislation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State has warned against not sending to the Chamber the Bill on Modernisation of Electronic Administrative Movement and makes six urgent recommendations in the interim opinion on digitisation in legislation and administrative justice;]] [[noting that contact with the government should be possible with a low-threshold, simple and with a human dimension and that millions of people in the Netherlands are not digitally skilled;]] [[noting that much has changed between filing the bill to the Chamber and handling it, including in thinking about the contact between government and people;]] [[calls on the Government to offer the legislative proposal to the Council of State for further advice and to review it in the light of the recommendations contained in the report Digitalisation in Law and Administrative Law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35261-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. I am still working on an amendment which deals with the fact that if there is a malfunction and one cannot do digital business, the deadlines laid down in the law will automatically be extended by the duration of that malfunction. Hopefully the Minister will be able to give some reflection on it. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister when she thinks someone is actively indicating that he wants digital. What's that moment? Is that a tick? Do we have to accept conditions in the context of these digital worlds and, if so, who reads them? Do people know they're dealing with this? I am going to amend the amendment along the system as it is intended. I am truly sorry that the Minister rejects this. I think that where it comes to the government's dealings with the inhabitants and with the entrepreneurs in the country, there should be no difference of opinion, which remains with the dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you. Then Mrs Dekker from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. D66 welcomes the fact that the government still sees a role for libraries and their support. It is also good that it will be checked whether the amount in question is sufficient. I do have one more clarifying question. I understand from the Minister's reply that it is also so arranged for businessmen to make a formal amendment by law if the paperwork is to be closed down. I would like to hear confirmation of that, because it does matter how I look at Mrs Leijten's amendment. I look forward to the Minister's answer to my question on the phone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u48	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Weerdenburg from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I have a few final comments to make. The success of this digital way and the success of this transition from paper to digital falls or stands with the quality of that digital way. As we have seen again today, there is still a world to be won. In my first term I mentioned some examples, such as failing web forms and technical failures. So we're a long way from here. The Minister rightly indicated that the Secretary of State for Digitisation must work on this because it is her portfolio. As it happens, we will be talking to her next week about putting the information system in order, but I would like to add that she cannot do so alone. That seems to be a doer of death, but if my knowledge of state law is correct, then the Secretary of State is not in the minster's council and she does not have the right to vote in it either. Moreover, it should also be something of all rulers and all noses should be in the same direction. She's only just begun, but when I look at the task ahead of her and us, and the timeline along with it, it's all going incredibly slow. I therefore call on her to help her to arrange this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes, and then we're gonna listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u51	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked and a number of comments have been made. First, Mrs Dekker's question. Yes, a change for entrepreneurs is always with a law in a formal sense. I would therefore like to emphasise this. Mrs Dekker also asked whether telephone or human contact is always possible. Last week there was a debate with the Secretary of State for Digitisation. It also stated in that debate on the digital government that there should always be a form of human contact possible. So that's her starting point for what she's doing. Then Mrs Rajkowski asked about the progress of the Federation Messages System. The planning is now that it should be ready 1 January 2024. It is expected that the number of organisations that connects will grow, as it gives them some relief. It provides for safeguards such as correct notification, renotifying, logging and correct notification text. In any case, I can promise on behalf of the Secretary of State that there will be a progress letter. Maybe the best time for that is early 2023, because then we will be a year ahead of introduction. So we'll know what's going on. Then the room can see if it's going the right way. I would therefore like to make that commitment on her behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u53	I thought, "God, 2023, it's gonna take a long time." But of course that's almost again. Can you include in that letter how many organisations are involved? I'd really like it if we could add the 450.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u54	It seems to me very good to indicate at that time what is about the expectation, who has joined up until that moment and what the view is in it. We'll give you a good idea of that. That seems very useful to me to include. Mr. Chairman. I conclude on the basis of the debate that I have not been able to address Mrs Leijten's concerns, while I really believe that this legislative proposal is an improvement. I also saw that a number of changes had to be made following the opinion of the Council of State. That is what we have done, with a letter of amendment. That is why I would like to make the motion in part No. 14 which Mrs Leijten submitted, would nevertheless like to discourage. I am convinced, for my part, that this is a good legislative proposal, which also improves the legal protection and guarantees of people. In addition, I would really like to point out that we also need to make progress in this area. Requisitioning an opinion from the Council of State really means that it really is going to take many months before we can take the steps forward. But I realize that I simply failed to convince Mrs Leijten on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 12 by Mrs Rajkowski. At the back it is legally the same as registered mail anyway. At the front you can see that there are some aspects of authentication. At the same time, I think it is a good thing that we are not sure whether that is an additional investigation, or whether it is a legal one, or not a legal one, but a very sharp one, how it is arranged with the messages inboxes. Can you compare that to that classic signature moves? Is it sufficiently clear that it is you who sends it to the government? That is why I would like to give the motion for a resolution Chamber, because we can then dive deeper into it and look at that comparison as well. So we have the impression that it is, but it seems to us to be a good idea to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u55	It sounds good. If you can promise to inform the Chamber, I can also withdraw the motion. Saves another motion on the motion list. A commitment weighs equally heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u56	I'll certainly inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u57	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. Then the question about being digitally accessible. In MyGovernment, the citizen can indicate the digital accessibility per organisation with a tick. These organizations also consult and decide on the basis of this, whether or not there is a check mark, whether a message can be sent digitally or by post. Organisations can also request permission to access people digitally directly with the digital application. So that's the different things in there. Mr. Chairman. On Mrs Van Weerdenburg's point: yes, every ministry has an obligation to take steps in the information system and to do better. It's not just on the shoulders of the Secretary of State. At the same time, I think it's really good that there's one person who's gonna give us this... how am I gonna say that? That there is one person who is going to make sure that we take the right steps and do so with sufficient speed. This is an important basis for a government: knowing where the information is and being able to provide it adequately. In this context, I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, have promised the Chamber that I will give an annual overview of the progress made in the Wob requests. That is in response to an oral question by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u59	I still miss your comments on the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u60	That is the amendment that is yet to be tabled. Oh, it's been filed. It would be nice if I could have the text of the amendment. Mrs Leijten's amendment concerns a more detailed regulation in the event of a malfunction. The literal text is: "In any case, the consignor shall not be held to have been in default for the duration of the period referred to in the preceding sentence." With the motivation that people can at least not be the victims of a technical malfunction. From my point of view, there is no need for an extension at the beginning of the period. A failure at the end of the period shall not be charged to the person concerned because he is not to be blamed. That is the way it is now regulated by the law. There is no need for a separate regulation on this point. The proposed scheme is: time-out is excusable if it cannot reasonably be considered that the consignor has been in default. The regulation we have in the law is wider than in Mrs Leijten's amendment. But then the question is whether we mean different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u61	I don't think so. It now says that there can be an extension. An AMvB can be made about that. Now we're just saying that if there's been a malfunction, the delay period for the duration of the malfunction will be extended. Whether it was at the beginning or at the end, no fuss about it. That doesn't have to be relevant. It may as well have been at the beginning, so that moment, when someone was sitting in front and thinking about it, also plays a role. It is therefore a question of thinking on the basis of procedures and government rather than what the Minister argued in the first term. But I didn't actually get up to do the debate all over again. I actually wanted to say that I would like to vote on the motion before we vote on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u62	The detailed rules of the AMvB do not affect the main rule contained in the law. The administrative organ may extend the legal deadline for the submission of a message due to the reduced electronic accessibility of the administrative organ. It's gonna stay up. You can't limit that. That's just Article 2:21 (1).
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u63	This is a can-determine. My amendment makes it a provision, namely that it always happens. I won't tire the minister of what happens to you when you're in conflict with a government and what can happen to you the moment you don't have the legal knowledge or the skills to struggle through it. You're gonna end up in hell. This bill doesn't regulate that reversal, not at all. I just read it to you. I am now hearing the Minister's reaction, namely to hold off the defensive from amendments that are very logical. That defensive attitude only strengthens me more in the opinion that this bill does not fit with this time and with the government we want. I find it careless that we are doing this this way at the moment. I regret that the Minister does not go into this because I want to trust her. I also know that she has the best interests for everyone. I just think that this bill is not the instrument for that. That is why I tabled this motion, namely to double-check it with the Council of State. I want to vote on that first. I don't think we're gonna get anywhere else. I am not concerned with the Minister's unwillingness, but with the text and character of the law. They are different from what the minister is defending here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u64	Article 2:25 of the law correctly regulates the reversal. It states that, at the moment when a message is not delivered properly and therefore a problem arises, it is up to the government to prove to the person who sent the message that it has arrived or not. When it comes to the data processing system, just to use the technical term, that is no longer the case with the person who sent the message from his or her living room. It is precisely in this law that we do something with Article 2:25 of the law, so that it becomes more humanistic. That's not in General Administrative Law right now. So that reversal is in the law. That's what I'm trying to tell you. At the same time, I realise that at least I am not convincing Mrs Leijten at the moment. But that reversal is in it. It is now also regulated that in the event of a malfunction, the government simply has a duty to extend the deadline. That's not gonna happen now. That is why we are taking a step forward, I say to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u65	What is your final assessment of the amendment to item No. 13?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u66	I would advise against the amendment. At the same time, it may be good to put it on paper for a while, because the reversal remains in the proposal and not in the amendment. I am therefore going to send a short note to the Chamber so that I can better indicate what the legislative proposal provides for, but where this amendment just sails past it. I'd like to do that carefully. So I'm going to send a short note to this Chamber to further underpin that explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u67	We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u68	The point made by Mrs Leijten is that we ultimately want the best for those who are going to send the mail. It's standing up. I see that's what stays in it. That amendment does not quite do that on that point. Anyway, we'll just put that in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u69	Would we like to continue voting until we have received that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u70	No, I'm not. We'll make sure it's just there tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u71	Oh, he'll be here tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u72	Yes, of course. At least it'll be there by Friday at the latest. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u73	Well, you said "morning."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u74	No, I see some people frowning. Friday at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u75	Yeah, a couple of civil servants pulled out white.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u76	That's why. That was a little too excited on my part. Friday at the latest, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u77	Still, a practical question about these malfunctions. Sometimes there is a accumulation of systems. Take, for example, an objection that you submit to your own municipality. You sign that with DigiD. Suppose the malfunction is in the DigiD system, so you can't send it in time, because you've waited until ten minutes before the deadline. My first question is: should the congregation meet me in that sense, even if it was not their fault? How do you prove that? Because the municipality can't look at the back of DigiD either. The same question applies to the e-mail. If your provider, KPN, Ziggo or anyone else is out, which makes you late for a certain term, how do you prevent the municipality from saying: sorry, that's force majeure; we couldn't help it, so you won't get a delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u78	This is therefore dealt with in Article 2:25. You'll say to the government agency one more time: there was a malfunction. Then, on the basis of Article 2:25, it is up to the government to prove that there was no interference if it considers that it was not there. This is dealt with in Article 2:25: that the burden of proof rests on the administrative body. Now I'm quoting from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u79	So the county official has to call Ziggo to check if there was indeed a malfunction at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u80	No, this is about DigiD. DigiD is the data processing system; that's what it says. In the case of Article 2:21, the administrative organ may extend the legal deadline for submission. That's in 2:21 of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u81	Yeah, but I'm trying to figure out if that's always in the public's favor. We don't want to put everything in the municipality. They don't have to have some sort of forensic department that's going to check everywhere whether or not it was, but yes, administrative bodies sometimes have a certain degree of distrust, I say with a look at Mrs Leijten. Of course I can think: oh, I'm late, but I'm just saying that there was a malfunction. But if there really was a malfunction and the citizen doesn't have to prove it, how do you find out?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u82	Because according to Article 2:21, third paragraph, it is arranged that if there is such a malfunction and you have indicated it, the government cannot object to it anymore. That's what the law says now. That is stated in Article 2:21, third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u83	This also applies if the malfunction, for example, is caused by a private...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u84	Also with Ziggo, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u85	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u86	Like the post it used to be supposed to make sure it's delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u87	On the one hand, I think: when we put a letter in the mail, we are not always sure whether it will arrive. However, I would like to continue on this point. At the moment there is a malfunction, there is an assumption that the IT is in order with the governing body in such a way that the malfunction is also logged, that people can see that there is a malfunction. Suppose for whatever reason I can't log in with my DigiD software that app doesn't do it to me too often; that's very annoying.That's very annoying.That's a screenshot, which sends and says: look, I had a malfunction; you can see the date and all the properties of the photo. I dare say that someone will say: we have looked into the system and we have not seen any interference. Is it going to work against the citizens again? So maybe in the letter we're still getting, something can be deepened that's being dealt with in a coulant way. That would give me a little more comfort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u88	If there has indeed been a malfunction in the data processing system, then it is up to the government to prove it. In addition, Article 2:21, third paragraph, applies in the event of an excusable period. How that relates to each other, I can write down in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u89	Can we get another note?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u90	No, it's the same note.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u91	Same note? Saves another stamp. Oh, no! Thank you very much. So far. Thanks to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-06-tweedekamer-9.u92	On Tuesday we shall vote on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal. At Mrs Leijten's request, we shall do so in that order. So much for this debate.
