ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first term of office of the Chamber of General European Reviews. I give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We just finished the Pentecostal days. With Pentecost we remember that about 2,000 years ago the Holy Spirit was given to the apostles and they began to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the beginning of the spread of Christianity. That spread continues every day worldwide; century in, century out. What political parties are then one-day flies. Mr. Chairman. This Christian faith is embraced by rich and poor, by king and criminals, by learned and unlearned from all races, colors, positions and ranks. Christian faith has also reached Europe and has left a huge mark on its history and culture. I call respect for life, care for the poor, looking out for the vulnerable, looking out for community and family, but also the awareness that the government has received its authority from the Higher Hand and we must therefore hold it high and hold it high. What are these current notions and what would the EU be good about if it found its inspiration here? Mr. Chairman. I'm going from Pentecost to D66-old-served Jan Terlouw. He recently shared a wise observation in De Telegraaf. I quote him: "I see many debates that do not make me happy. I see a lot of arguments and very few fundamental discussions." With a wink from me, I thought that was quite remarkable for a representative of a definite pragmatic party who currently seems to have only one principle, namely the law on completed life, contrary to all science and professionals. In all seriousness, I greatly appreciate a politician, whatever his signature, who shows a need for a fundamental debate, a dialogue on the order of our society, the values and standards that we hold high, the goals we pursue together, such as peace, justice, order and well-being. It is precisely in the search for that deeper layer that we may recognize values in one another and search for space instead of containment of the other. So I would like to continue the discussion of principle on the EU with the Minister, on the basis of a well-formed use, on the basis of three points: the foundation on which the EU is founded, the home of the EU itself and how to prevent that house from falling over. Mr. Chairman. On 25 February, a day after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a promotion took place in Utrecht about the networks of the churches that were at the basis of European cooperation. Many churches saw European cooperation as a necessary counterweight to the absoluteization of classes in the Soviet Union, raw nationalism in Germany or idolatry of the state in Italy. Thus, the process of integration was promoted through the spiritual concepts of reconciliation, solidarity and responsibility that also inspired major European leaders such as Jean Monnet and Max Kohnstamm. That many people, including many believers including the SGP, do not always feel this enthusiasm anymore, is because it is "we" replaced by "I" and room for difference too often by a pinching secular-liberal equality thinking. I hope that we in Europe will learn to think again in terms of sovereignty in our own circle and community rather than individual rights alone, so that fundamental rights such as religious freedom and freedom of expression remain proud of concepts such as non-discrimination. Does the Minister share this hope? Is it his mission, too? Speaking of religious freedom. The SGP welcomes the return of a special envoy for religious freedom to Cyprus' former Commissioner Stylianides after years of standstill in the EU. Will the Minister discuss with him the protection of persecuted Christians and other believers in countries such as Afghanistan, China and Nigeria? Mr. Chairman. The EU's outstretched hand and open-mindedness once also explicitly focused on Israel. What is the Netherlands doing in accordance with the adopted Dutch Parliamentary Motion to restart formal talks on the EU-Israel Association Agreement? How does the EU address Iraq on the bizarre establishment of the death penalty for those seeking to standardise relations with Israel? Mr. Chairman. My second thought is the state of the European home. If we take the European Coal and Steel Community as the starting point for European integration, we can see that this house has been under construction for 72 years now. How's that villa? On the one hand, I note that it has become quite a solid building from the outside. The glasses of European institutions in Brussels, Strasbourg or Luxembourg seem to reflect nothing but prosperity and unity next to the sun. In spacious bolides, Europeans drive across invisible borders to all corners of the continent to work, live or relax. A lot of reason to be grateful. And yet, surprisingly, the relative European unity in the light of the war in Ukraine, of which the recently established sixth package of sanctions is a testament. It is about peace, freedom and democracy throughout our continent. But if you look closely, you will see that the European house shows some cracks here and there. Firstly, the SGP is curious as to exactly how the MFF rule of law is going to work out. Yes, fraud and corruption need to be combated and sound financial management is crucial, but this should not become a vehicle that puts pressure on the Union value of democracy. Is the Minister vigilant on this, too? The second concern of the SGP is the SGP: the pressure on the Stability and Growth Pact commitments on a maximum budget deficit of 3% of GDP and a maximum public debt of 60% of GDP. The Council of State called this an essential part of the European Constitution. My questions on this are as follows. Which euro area countries are still complying with these agreements? Does the Minister share the view that violations undermine the sustainability of the euro area? Does he agree that the Commission does not maintain enough, which, according to the EU Treaty, is its task, and what can he do about it? With regard to EU enlargement, the SGP calls for full compliance with the Copenhagen criteria and EU absorption capacity. Fourthly, I fear that a convention on a treaty change will ultimately have only one goal: more EU and less Member State, the abolition of veto rights and so on. Can I count on a possible convention to be balanced? As far as the SGP is concerned, these are really matters of principle for the parliaments of all the Member States, not just because of Mr Terlouw, who looks forward to a discussion of principle. Mr. Chairman. My third point is how do we prevent the European house from falling apart? First of all... Remember that the EU is built on a Jewish-Christian foundation, where community spirit and space for difference were central. Is that the Europe that this minister also wants to work for? Second. Remember for what purpose the EU was set up: practical political and economic cooperation. In other words, cobbler stays with you and respects the limits of jurisdiction in the treaties. Who else is gonna oversee the whole structure? Third. Adjust to the storms and the water currents. Find an answer to contemporary challenges within the two mentioned frameworks. Keep things practical, manageable and close to the people. Mr. Chairman. I started Pentecost and the passage of the gospel in Europe. The secularisation has struck very hard on this continent. Many still see this as profit, but where the cross of Christ once stood, when it is taken away, only the ravaged earth remains. This simply means a continent without inspiration, without respect for life and without respect for the saint. Where does such a continent find its inner strength when crises, epidemics or war violence cross its path? I hope that the European Heads of Government will regularly take up their hearts in a divine service. Europe can't make it without God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u3	That puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mrs Stienen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u6	I hear a wonderful, inspired and passionate story. Know that there are many people within D66 who see faith as a moral compass for the way they stand in life. That's what I'm counting on myself. You also know that our party leader, Sigrid Kaag, has spoken on this issue on a regular basis. So I'll just ignore the comment at the beginning. I would like to ask Mr Van Dijk: can you imagine that there are also people who see the European Convention on Human Rights as a moral guide to their cooperation in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u7	Yeah, sure. I mentioned the respect for life, which, for example, you also encounter in that respect. So I can imagine, sure. I wanted to show that very briefly how Europe has been influenced by Christian faith over the centuries. Many of the things that we are still on today are the result of this. I'm only grateful for that. My appeal is above all: let's be careful and not brusque or trivialize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u8	Then I probably misinterpreted it. Of course, we all listen from our own reality. For a moment I thought I heard some sort of dominion in the story for the people who might not adhere to that Christian faith or that creed. But if, like me, Mr Van Dijk sees the European Convention on Human Rights as a moral guide, then I am happy to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u9	To avoid any misunderstandings, I didn't want to sneer at anyone. I noticed that my comment seemed to be different from what I intended, so it is good to put that right here. It was certainly not an insult or anything to Mr Terlouw. I just thought I'd make a little quince. But if it doesn't look good, it's up to me. Excuse me, I didn't mean to. I certainly didn't want to sneer at other believers either. I just wanted to stress that I think that our continent owes a great deal to the Christian tradition. Think about taking care of each other. But I also mention the respect for life, which I see very much under pressure, especially in Europe. That's what I'm really worried about. Let us therefore cherish this spiritual heritage with each other and not reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Nanninga on behalf of the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is only a limited number of certainties in life: paying taxes, dying and continuing the train of the ever closer union. The EU, no matter what happens and whatever the traditional parties of power tell the citizens, becomes more powerful, bigger and closer. My group does not support this trend and sees more good European cooperation than in a Brussels superstate. Yet we are now in the porch of that superstate, with the door ajar. In the coalition agreement of last December, the cabinet stated that the right of veto of the Member States should be abolished in the European Council. That's what the Cabinet is committed to, so we can read. Minister Hoekstra, here present, thank you for waiting for the technique and the relocating threw another stone into the pond at the beginning of May by also advocating the lifting of that right of veto. It's kind of how it's always been. To measure the temperature in the country: that's the tactic. Let me see if we can sell more EU to the citizens as a cabinet. More EU, less democracy, more technocracy, more five-year plans, less participation. The cabinet continues to come up with pilot balloons to massage even more EU. Minister Ollongren now wants to integrate the Dutch and German armed forces again. One can't imagine it that crazy, but if Dutch sovereignty is being undermined, well, then the cabinet is eager. Then things can't go fast enough. In the short term it might seem like an attractive option, because that way we can of course take the favourite bête noire of Brussels: Orban, which is then partly out of play. But the abolition of the right of veto also affects the Netherlands. In areas such as sanctions, human rights and civilian missions, our country will no longer be able to pursue its own foreign policy. And what is a country that can no longer pursue its own foreign policy? A province. Overijssel cannot conduct its own foreign policy. Nor can the other provinces, precisely because they are provinces. Foreign policy usually lies with the highest executive power in the country. Apparently that's for this Brussels cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Has there ever been a time when we might have seen such a clear transition, "a passage moment," Luuk van Middelaar says, in the direction of a European superstate? It's quiet, it's almost imperceptible. Test balloons are being elated, the situation at the EU's borders is accommodating the movement towards more, more, more, more EU. Time is bought, almost time is spent. The pressure on the boiler is slowly increased. The fire under the pan with frogs is fired up again. And the train goes even harder towards the final goal, in which the Netherlands is a province of a European superstate. Mr. Chairman. I must say that it is quite a piece of work from the Eurocrats, but it is not the EU that supports the JA21 group. You do not have to be Metternich or Kissinger to see that the European army is quietly dragged through in the same way. Minister Ollongren is already busy with it. Can the Minister comment on this massaging of a European army? Better yet: can the Minister promise that this will not be the case? My group is concerned about the importance of abolishing the right of veto. Even if there is no unanimous support in the EU for specific foreign policy, for example in the form of sanctions, can a coalition of the willing make agreements and announce sanctions with countries that decide to do so on their own? It is extremely regrettable that someone like Orbán has so little trouble with Putin, but chastising him by taking away the right of veto from all Member States is madness. It's like we're all gonna have to shoot ourselves in our own foot, 'cause that means Orbán's gonna shoot himself in the foot. Apparently, that's a profit. Mr. Chairman. This debate doesn't have much to do with it. It seems to be mainly intended for the riding of stickhorses of the different parties. Of course, we also took ours off the stables, because you understand that we like to go for a round of rounds. However, I would ask Members to think carefully about the implications of giving up the right of veto in the Netherlands. I would ask the Members, groups and the Minister present: do we really want the Netherlands to become an effective province of Europe? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The terrible war in Ukraine has not only led to indescribable suffering for the people of that country, but also to great words such as a landslide, a Zeitenwente or a tipping moment in European history, as the recent state of the Union of the Dutch Government describes it. Now European history has experienced many tilting moments in the last century. But the invasion by Russia of neighbouring Ukraine is certainly one of them. That is why I would like to start by talking about Europe in the changing international geopolitical context and the Dutch contribution to it. I shall then turn to the subject of democracy in Europe. In view of the limited speaking time we have, I shall confine myself to these two subjects, although I realise that there are many others possible. Firstly, the geopolitical context of the European Union. The war in Ukraine may well be called a tilting moment, yet the geopolitical tectonic plates were already sliding. Certainly, impressed by the war in Ukraine, the United States is now looking a little more towards Europe, but that does not mean that the United States' attention has been shifting towards the Indo-Pacific for some time now. China's rise is unmistakable. The European Union's attitude towards this great power is ambivalent. China is also referred to in the recently published Strategic Compass of the European Union as a partner for cooperation, an economic competitor and a system rival. The last two indications are also shared by the United States, but the first, a partner for cooperation, is much less. Can the government explain why the European Union differs in this from the United States' tougher attitude? How long can China be called a partner for cooperation? Does buying up by China from, for example, the strategic port in Piraeus fit in? What does the government think the European Union should do to prevent this happening in the future? How does the repression of the Uighurs in the Chinese province of Xinjiang, the gateway of the New Silk Road, relate to considering China as a partner for cooperation? At the same time, members of the Labour Party believe that you should always try to distinguish between a regime of a country and the people of that country. The Chinese regime is autocratic and oppressive in its own country. How can the Netherlands and the EU maintain as much contact as possible with the Chinese people, while the Chinese government fully controls these contacts, I ask the government. Mr. Chairman. Those long-standing shifts in geopolitical relations took place on 24 February this year when the Russian invasion of Ukraine hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u14	Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u15	Like Mr Koole, I and my group are also concerned about the rise of China, about the autocratic nature of the regime there and about the repression in, for example, the province of Xinjiang. Now Mr Koole suggests that this should mean that China can no longer be a partner, but perhaps I misunderstood him. My question would be: how can we tackle the global climate crisis without China as a partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u16	Mr Van Apeldoorn asks the same questions that I also ask the government. How can you be a partner at the same time and still criticise the oppressive regime of China in one way or another for, for example, the repression of the Uighurs? My question, which followed, was how to maintain contacts with the population. I agree that these contacts should continue without too easily legitimizing the regime in oppressive matters such as the Uighurs. I put that question to the government, and Mr Van Apeldoorn himself raises the same question. I just don't say that there should never be any contact with China again. That is what I was trying to make clear in my contribution. The Americans are much tougher in this and they are doing a much harder trade policy. In fact, in my question, the question is hidden, if that is what you mean, why European policy in trade relations with China differs from that of the United States. Shouldn't you be on the same page there? This may also mean that the United States must move more towards Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u17	I think it is a good question for the Minister and I am also curious about the answer, but I am also curious about the PvdA Group's thinking on this. It is good to maintain contact with opposition groups in China, but we will also have to maintain contact with China, for example with regard to the joint approach to the climate crisis. I think that's inevitable. I can see the tension, but now Mr Koole seems to suggest that the EU does not really go far enough. Mr Koole cites America, but even Biden says: we must continue to work with China as a partner, for example in relation to climate change and other global problems, such as preventing or combating a pandemic, even though we do not agree with China's internal policies and condemn human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u18	I fully agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that you need to see how you can work together, but whether you should have the same, yet ambivalent attitude as the European Union now has, if you compare that with the United States, I wonder. Why should you not, like the United States, be quite strict on some points and still keep an open mind on climate control and other issues, in order to maintain cooperation? I ask for an opinion from the Dutch Government on this. What is the contribution of the Dutch Government to European integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u19	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u20	Yeah, finally. Mr Koole continues to refer to the Americans, who are taking a harder line. Honestly, I'm worried about that harder line. I understand what Mr Koole is saying, but I see that the Americans are openly talking about a cold war with China, including in government circles. China is an emerging power and it must be stopped. This can not only complicate cooperation in combating climate change, but also create an unsafe world at all. Does Mr Koole of the PvdA Group see this potential danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u21	You must not want that cold war, I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn. I also said in an earlier response: a little bit more equal with the United States compared with China can also mean that the United States is moving a little more towards Europe. Well, I guess I'll just have to hope for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u22	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. This long-standing shift in geopolitical relations led to the thumping of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24 February. Many have rightly responded to this with horror and rejection. We share that horror and rejection. The Strategic Compass of the European Union notes the need to defend the European security order. Germany gave up its courage and last week the Bundestag agreed to the announced 100 billion extra for defence. The Netherlands did not lag behind and approached the NATO 2% standard with the now announced additional resources for defence. Ukraine was supplied weapons from the West, but that is how I ask the government: was the European Union not left behind? Does not the defence of the European security order include Ukraine's holding against the Russian aggressor? While the European Union, as a major economic power, is leading standards, for example, in the field of the environment and food safety, it is very slow and modest when it comes to supplying arms to Ukraine. The Paris-Berlin axis seems to have been replaced by the Washington-Kiev axis. It is clear that support from the United States for the preservation of the European security order has proved indispensable, but Europe could not have done much more, and more quickly, in the field of arms supplies, I ask the government. President Zelensky also addressed the Dutch Parliament, at least the House of Representatives. It is strange that, apart from the President, the other members of this Chamber were not allowed to attend. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine then visited our country, but did not underestimate his disappointment at the attitude of the Dutch Government. This was mainly about Ukraine's membership of the EU. Now the PvdA Group also thinks that this morning we have already talked about the need for a country to join the EU at the time of final negotiations to meet the Copenhagen criteria for accession. The European Court of Auditors has recently underlined the importance of this in its report on the Western Balkans. But we believe that this does not prevent a positive signal now, in the form of the short-term acceptance of candidate membership, the so-called application status. Is the government prepared to send that signal in the short term? And, in order to preserve Europe's unity against Russian threats and Chinese influence, is it not of the utmost importance to allow countries in the Western Balkans that do meet the requirements to join the European Union as soon as possible? What is the government going to do to get the accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania started as soon as possible? Mr. Chairman. The war in Ukraine is also of great importance for the relationship between the European Union and NATO, which has been discussed a number of times today. In March this year the European Union published its Strategic Compass and at the end of this month the NATO Summit will discuss the Strategic Concept in Madrid. Both organisations emphasise that cooperation between the EU and NATO is good. However, there are some questions to be asked about this, for example about the EU's rapidly deployable capacity to deploy up to 5,000 troops. How am I supposed to imagine that? Is this commitment subject to a broader mandate under international law, or does the European Council decide on this commitment? Is this being coordinated with NATO or is it creating a kind of double chain of command? The Defence Note published last week does not say anything about this, except that this EU capacity will be under German leadership in 2025. That's why I'm only asking the Foreign Minister. Another war on the European continent. Russian aggression against a neighbouring country has led Sweden and Finland to apply for NATO membership. It is indeed a turning point when two neutral countries so far ask for this membership. The Netherlands supports the accession of both countries. But has the Dutch Government also taken into account that this will reduce the distance between NATO territory and the Russian Federation? In fact, in Finland there is a 1,300 kilometer long shared border. From a Russian perspective, the border drawn by the Iron Curtain in the middle of Europe has increasingly shifted towards Russia, leading to a greater sense of insecurity. Have such considerations, i.e. that the border is getting closer and closer to Russia, played a role in determining the position on Finland's and Sweden's request? Can such considerations play a role in the discussion on possible membership of Ukraine of NATO, which has already been advocated by some other NATO members? Mr. Chairman. The war in Ukraine is likely to last a long time. All this time, support from the European Union to Ukraine is needed. However, there is a risk of a drop in aid and attention, and Putin would do well to do so. Moreover, the consequences of this war are already felt in the country and in the rest of Europe. Food and energy prices are rising as a result of this war and the sanctions. Is the government prepared to compensate, even in the longer term, for the rise in these prices for those who are unable or barely able to make ends meet, for social reasons, but also to maintain support for humanitarian and military aid to Ukraine? Mr. Chairman. I will dwell briefly on the second issue I wish to raise today: democracy in Europe. Here too, the war in Ukraine plays a catalysing role. The war, like the covid pandemic, has made it clear that, if the European Union is to be a powerful geopolitical player, it must be able to react quickly to events, while the Union has for a long time been focusing almost exclusively on longer-term legislative processes. This has consequences for democracy in Europe. For some time now, the government has been calling for the introduction of qualified majority decisions in the Council, which should replace unanimous decision-making. We agree with that. The problem is that to get there requires unanimity first. How does the government intend to break this deadlock, or is the idea of Mrs Oomen's passerelles a solution to that? The increased importance of taking decisions in the short term has also increased the European Commission's position. The political weight of the European Commission, originally intended as a non-political technocratic broker in the architecture of European institutions, has grown. Does the government share this view? The coalition agreement states that, in order to strengthen democracy, the European Parliament must be able to resign an individual Commissioner. What has the government done, or does it intend to do, to achieve this? Shouldn't the number of Commissioners also be reduced? In the coalition agreement, the cabinet also wanted to improve the system of spitzen candidates, now also known as lead candidates, in European elections, but said it wanted to wait for the European Parliament's initiative. This has now appeared in May, and it is essential that the main candidates, the spitzencandidates, should be able to stand as candidates in all the Member States on lists of the whole of the European Union, so that voters can vote for their favourite candidate for the Presidency of the Commission. Can the government therefore explain the criteria under which it will assess this initiative on those main candidates? What does the government think of a directly elected President of the Commission and EU President, as was recently suggested by Commissioner Schinas, responsible for promoting the European way of life? Finally, Mr President. As important as the European Commission becomes and as much as the influence of the European Parliament is strengthened, the Intergovernmental Council of Ministers and the European Council will for the time being play a major role in the aforementioned European institutional architecture. When citizens identify with politics, they do so first and foremost at national level. That is why it is very important that national governments inform citizens and answer to them about what they take on their behalf at European level. And there's still much to improve. The members of the PvdA Group therefore welcomed the commitment in the State of the Union to send a cabinet letter after the Conference on the Future of Europe in response to the Koole motion adopted last year by this Chamber on the need for a lively, well informed public debate on the European Union and the ambitions of the Netherlands. Last week, that letter appeared. It is a good thing that it says that the cabinet sees it as its task to quote: 'to involve citizens in the European Union by informing them, to actively listen to what the citizens expect of the Union and to create acceptance'. Does the government agree with the members of the PvdA Group that building support can only succeed sustainably if the citizens are informed in a balanced manner about both the pros and the opponents of European cooperation? Can the government promise that this balance will be an important criterion for all activities supported by the government? The letter states that in 2022 €250,000 will be available for citizens' consultations. I hope that these additional resources will not be limited to those citizens' consultations, because the government is right to point out that a public debate calls for a constant effort. Moreover, the general public has not actually heard anything about these citizens' consultations this morning in the context of the Conference on the Future of Europe. Citizen consultations may be useful for the government to get ideas, but this is something other than actively and balanced information for citizens. What activities of the government with corresponding resources are aimed at and is not a structural budget item needed instead of a one-off amount in 2022? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter later. The members of the PvdA Group look forward to the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u24	Thank you, Mr Koole. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u25	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister, Co-senators, while we are discussing the State of the European Union today, a barbaric Russian raid has been taking place less than 1,500 kilometres from the Dutch border for more than 100 days. Complete cities, such as Marioepol and Irpin, have been destroyed. There are tens of thousands dead. Women are brutally raped. Men are executed on the street. Thousands of Ukrainian children have been deported to Siberia. This terrible war on our own European continent is now firmly confronting us with the thin line of division between war and peace, between civilization and barbarism, between prosperity and depression. We in the Netherlands sometimes prefer to put our eyes on this rough reality. Rather, we are talking about the Spring Note, which is being postponed indefinitely, now again until August. Or how this cabinet is going to distribute the 100 billion euros of green grabbelton funds among its friends, while millions of Dutch people can no longer pay their energy bills. Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, the European Union has been strengthened by the war in Ukraine but, on the other hand, weakened by the energy crisis associated with this war. In addition, the euro is also at risk of falling back into the danger zone, due to the very rapid rise in inflation and the unhindered inflation expectations. As a result, interest rates are rising rapidly. And as a result, southern European countries are in danger of getting into trouble again. These are problems that have never been resolved properly, but have been postponed by the European Central Bank with artificially low interest rates. Due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the EU and the Netherlands have been confronted with the enormous dependence on gas and oil from Russia. But this war, preceded by two years of coronapandemics, has also brought upon us an imminent economic disaster. The economic weather alarm's on code red. Inflation's going up. The energy bill is becoming priceless for millions of Dutch people, as I said. But a sense of urgency in this area is still not apparent from the Rutte cabinet. 3 August 2022 is the day that Prime Minister Rutte can finally take over the record as the longest serving Prime Minister of Ruud Lubbers. This is now leading the Dutch cabinet policy. That is why difficult decisions in the Spring Paper are now being postponed to August or later. It is a shame that D66, CDA and ChristenUnion join in this obsession and postpone the urgent decisions for themselves. This country has been held hostage by the fixation of one man to enter the history books as the longest serving prime minister. Mr. Chairman. Europe and the Netherlands have been hit hard by the Russian invasion of Ukraine in terms of energy policy. The German economy is largely dependent on Russian gas. In the Netherlands we are in the middle of a costly energy transition. We're also just at a very vulnerable moment when we don't have our new shoes yet, but we've already put our old shoes in the dirt. Does this cabinet really think that the Netherlands is an island within the European Union? If the German economy goes into recession, the Netherlands will of course go into the economic abyss just as hard. This cabinet, which is always full of European cooperation, should now make every effort, as far as we are concerned, to prevent this from happening. It's possible. The Netherlands, as one of the few countries, is uniquely positioned to help solve this European energy crisis, to improve it and also to solve several urgent domestic problems. The Netherlands has a unique asset in this crisis and this is a very large gas supply in Groningen, which is worth hundreds of billions of euros at current market prices, perhaps 1,000 billion, €60,000 per Dutchman, including children and older people. That's even more than we all make in the Netherlands a year. But because the cabinet has not been able to resolve the damage in the Groningen gas extraction area properly for years, former Minister of Economic Affairs Wiebes decided to stop the gas extraction more or less on his own at a time of negligence. An impulsive decision with far-reaching consequences. Consequences which are now increasing exponentially due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the reduction of Russian gas dependence. Meanwhile, the Netherlands has invested 10 billion euros in gas storage and a gas roundabout, but it was army during the outbreak of the Ukraine war than ever before. Not only is part of the gas storage in the hands of the Gulf States, Gazprom was also counted on to supply the gas from Russia, Russian gas that was no longer supplied from 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u26	Let me get this straight. I would like to know from Mr Otten whether he is now in favour of us going back to Groningen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u27	I shall come to that in a moment, in the course of my speech. You now have the problem that we are, of course, in a phase of transition. It's called the energy transition for a reason. We want to get rid of Russian gas very quickly, but that transition has not yet been completed. Most experts agree that you have a very big problem for the next two or three years. That problem at European level could help the Netherlands, as we have done in the past with gas, by pumping up the Groningen gas at that transition stage and thus earning those billions. In the meantime, we will at least mitigate a European recession if we do not turn it away already.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u28	Mr Otten also knows that this is not just about the billions, but also about the security of the citizens of Groningen and that these people are also entitled to safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u29	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u30	Mr Otten also knows that there is no driver in the whole of the north, in Groningen, who is in favour of going back to gas drilling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u31	I will get to that in a moment, but I will tell you this, Mrs Karimi. This view does not fall from the sky. I've been promoting this since 2018. In my previous party, I personally stated that we should resume this gas extraction, provided that billions go to the victims of Groningen. I can assure you that my previous party, we all know which party that is in Groningen became very big, but in all the municipalities where the gas extraction takes place, the number 1 became the biggest party, because the people in those municipalities, who wait all day for their money from The Hague, know that their compensation is under their soil and that that money does not come out until it is pumped out. If we have to wait for The Hague and for the dialogue tables and I know what all the compensation has gone to lawyers over 60% and to the NAM, then the money will not come.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u33	The money's in the ground. You just have to take it out and hand out a big piece of it to the Groningen victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u34	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u35	Yeah, finally. "Gas is in the ground and you have to take it out," but as you pull it out, the earthquakes go through. I see Mr Otten's passion when he talks about the history of his old party. Fine. But this is actually about something else. It is about the security of citizens in Groningen. There's no way we should be blackmailing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u36	I understand you'll come back to it later, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u37	I'll get back to you on that. We are talking about security here, but what about the security of citizens in Ukraine? Of course, we have to keep putting things in perspective for a while. Mrs Karimi is served at her beck and call, because the Mining Council under the direction of engineer Staff Depla advised this morning to resume the Groningen gas extraction. That is something that I have been calling for since 2018, provided that a generous part of the gas revenues goes to the victims of the earthquake in Groningen, as Mrs Karimi has just mentioned. The cabinet is always full of European solidarity, but now is the time for action. Resume this gas extraction in Groningen so that we can supply ourselves and our European partners with gas until there are enough alternatives to Russian gas. That trial will take at least a few years. The Netherlands can and must now play a crucial role in bridging this period. In this respect, it is essential and a sine qua non that, first of all, the Groningen people are generously compensated, so that, for example, the first EUR 10 billion proceeds from gas extraction are paid into the Groningen recovery fund, from which the damage is quickly and vigorously compensated unbureaucratically. If the damage cannot be compensated or if there is no other way to do so, houses must be bought up, if necessary at a very generous market value, in other words the market value before the damage was caused. Mr. Chairman. In Sweden they also have an earthquake problem in the north of the country. Only the earthquakes there are a lot more violent than in Groningen. An important iron ore mine has been in the northern Swedish Kiruna for centuries. The extraction of iron ore in Kiruna leads to damage to houses and earthquakes that are much more powerful than those in Groningen. However, Sweden has resolved this very effectively. They simply moved the entire city of Kiruna for many billions of euros and compensated the residents extremely well so that iron ore mining could continue. That's a win-win situation. We therefore call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs to consult with his Swedish colleague, because we can learn a little from Sweden in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u38	I'm getting detached here. What debate did I get into? Is this the Europe debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u39	Yes, it is, Mrs. Oomen. I believe that the biggest challenge facing the European Union at the moment after 24 February is energy supply. We want to get rid of the Russian gas. That has huge economic implications. We are talking about economic cooperation and the Netherlands has a trump card, as I said. Not only can we help our European partners, which I believe is being called for, but I believe that the German Chancellor, who was recently visiting the Prime Minister, has also talked about this, but has also earned his own money and solved our budget problems. This is indeed a European debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u40	I thought we were dealing with the state of the Union. I have another view on whether this should be heard in the debate on the safety of the Groningen people. I didn't study for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u41	The title of the debate is General European Discussion. That sounds pretty common, but you heard it, Mr. Otten. Do with it what you wish to do with it. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u42	In Mrs Oomen's term, we have talked extensively about inflation and the unsustainability of Italian public debt. That was also an economic issue, and I will return immediately to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u43	Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u44	My memory is good and...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u45	Mrs Oomen, I will now give you the floor for the last time, because you ask. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u46	The answer came after Mr Otten had asked me very precisely the question about Italy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u47	Yes, that was after Mrs Oomen started talking about rising interest rates and I asked her what the CDA solution is. Are we gonna put all the debts together in a basket? Are we going out of the euro? Does Italy come from the euro? Or are we gonna let ourselves be messed up in a debt union? Then Mrs Oomen said, "I don't like the word messing around."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u48	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u49	We don't like that either. Then we have that point clearly, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. The current geopolitical situation is very threatening, but it also offers a unique opportunity for the Netherlands to solve various problems at the same time. 1. Helping to avert a European recession, at least to weaken it. 2. Achieve an adequate and generous remuneration for the Groningen gas extraction victims. 3. The empty gas storage, which cost 10 billion, can now be filled. In any case, this is mandatory on the basis of the new European directives, I say to Mrs Oomen in particular. 4. A significantly lower energy bill for the Dutch. 5. The budgetary problems of the Rutte cabinet can be resolved and no longer need to be pushed forward. 6. These gas revenues can finance a tax reduction, so that the purchasing power of lower and modal incomes in the Netherlands can be maintained. This is also very much needed with current inflation. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands can now show that we are really capable of good European economic cooperation, in a way that will improve the EU, but which will also benefit the Netherlands itself, and with which we and passing also solve various domestic problems. In short, win-win-win. That is an effective European cooperation. We would like to hear how the Minister and the Cabinet are going to implement these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u50	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. For centuries we have sailed the seas of the world and fought with the water. We have dried up our land and our fertile delta has given us food safety and security. Our farmers became the best in the world and have the lowest environmental impact in the world. Stug and persistent we have dried our land dry. On the North Sea we built the mainport of Europe, Rotterdam, the second largest port in the world, recently enlarged with the Second Maasvlakte, a newly built sea area of 2,000 hectares. At the bottom of the sea we built our international airport Schiphol. We have a unique pension system. We had a welfare state that many people were jealous of. Education was of a high standard. Our entrepreneurship, our sobriety, the ability to think rationally, and, let's not forget, the Groningen gas... there we have brought him again... great prosperity. Driven by our merchantship, the Netherlands has plunged into European cooperation. In the first place, economic cooperation was an economic stimulus to free trade, but gradually more and more conditions were laid down, not only economic but also politically. The European straitjacket is becoming more and more tenacious. The thing that has brought us to a prosperous nation is becoming increasingly bound up with the meddling EU. The farmers, the fishermen, the entrepreneurs, our energy supply, our money, our education and the family, the cornerstone of our society, are all sacrificed to an ever closer union. Dreaming from a place on the world stage, political leaders play the game into the federal union. They baked NGOs to put pressure on their own political agenda. The CDA and the Christian Union are shamelessly abandoning their agricultural supporters and are being forced by the salon-socialist Timmermans and his Greenpeace buddy Samsom, who wants to drive away some of the farmers and force the remaining part to expand, resulting in higher prices and lower food production. In the VVD, the socialists found a comrade. The Minister for Nitrogen, yes, how do you make it up! Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. It is also not surprising that the Netherlands is the only country with a Minister for Nitrogen, because the nitrogen problem stops abruptly at the Dutch border. That's special, isn't it? The VVD is not only detached from its liberal principles, but also from its common sense. A little violation of fundamental rights? At the VVD you've come to the right place. In addition, the VVD does not seem to care that there is a food shortage, while food is the basic requirement. But apparently this is what happens to generations who have never been hungry. And it has been forgotten that food production is a strategic asset that we can feed ourselves and others. Due to the war in Ukraine and the corona crisis, the production and failure of the transport lines. The Commissioner for Agriculture, Janusz Wojciechowski, is beginning to wake up and advocates the pause button. However, the left-wing duo Timmermans/Samsom, which laves on the Brussels trough, has no brakes. Blinded by their own ideals and drunkenness of power, they further reduce poverty for the citizens. Mr. Chairman. After the cow in the pasture, or should I say "from the pasture," the holy cow must also believe in it. Due to the imposed CO reduction, both the heating of houses and the fuel for cars are linked to the cost of CO emissions. That means even higher prices at the pump and an even higher energy bill, as if it all costs nothing now. In order to keep money transfers from rich to poor, the Social Climate Fund, with EUR 20 billion, will support households that are no longer financially viable. As the real socialists do, they first weaken the weak and then weaken the stronger. Money gives freedom and independence and euro-socialists do not like it; they love a makeable society. And let us not forget that a real democracy can only thrive on financial independence and freedom of expression. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has stepped away from its liberal base and has been fluent in leveling. Once upon a time, the VVD was against Eurobonds, against the rapid enlargement of the EU and for free enterprise. But under over ten years of VVD administration, through the NextGenerationEU Fund, we jointly guarantee 360 billion euros, drives SMEs crazy over all the rules and puts the big companies under government control through corporate social responsibility, with countless hawks in the form of subsidised NGOs, who get the kick out of you when you walk outside the moral lines they set. Huge transfers of money are facilitated within the EU from rich to less wealthy and poor countries. One of the biggest transfers was the introduction of the euro, but according to Brussels officials, the Green Deal is getting much bigger. In order to create support for future generations, indoctrination in education is in full swing. Instead of laying the groundwork for basic skills, children are pre-programmed at an early age to become future European nationals. Their carefree youth is affected and their heads are stuffed with the problems of politically created crises. And after the gender cookie has been served early, she is used as a pawn in a tough political chess game. Mr. Chairman. Fearful and uncertain people can no longer think rationally, let alone develop initiatives. But perhaps this is part of the future European superstate, in which the people should not show off and think critically. For example, the Vrije Universiteit abolished the qualification "cum laude" during the course of medicine. It was too stressful for the students. But in the meantime, some of the young mothers who prefer to work part-time are being hunted down and pressured to work even more. This while longer worker doesn't pay. That's also a form of leveling. Only the IRS is the smiling third. Apparently, they are allowed to work the snot in front of their eyes, while a large proportion of non-Western migrants hang on the couch and tart on society. Apparently they are already socially written off and the path of the least resistance is chosen: keeping them sweet with a benefit. It is therefore incomprehensible that the European Commission should come forward with the proposal to get even more North Africans from countries such as Morocco, Egypt and Tunisia. This cabinet is just wagging behind it, as if our country isn't packed already. With this unbridled population growth, this cabinet is never going to achieve the much-needed CO reduction of 55%. How does this target relate to the growing number of inhabitants? Or does this percentage of 55% apply regardless of the number of residents involved? In that case, we're twice the cigar. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. It would all be about dealing with the labour shortage. But it is a sign that a large part of these non-Western migrants excel only in the welfare. This shows that they are not going to solve the labour shortage at all, but they are going to increase it. They all have to eat, have a roof over their heads, make use of education and health care, and so on. And that must be done for them and not for them. They too are ageing. Then you'll get more Islam and we have to get rid of it. Remember that it is precisely migrants from Morocco and Tunisia who have a large share of jihadism. Mr. Chairman. The EU is no longer in control of illegal immigration flows, so it is going to legalize them, as if you were done with the problem. Yeah, well, on paper, you're off the hook, but the practice's more uncomfortable. If you have any comments on that, you will be dismissed as a racist, fascist or extreme right and you can just be put on a list with the NCTV, not excluding parliamentarians. The rise of woke is a driving force and a killer of freedom of speech. Woke does not tolerate any contradiction and pursues a collectivist state of salvation, just like the EU. To control the growing masses in that collectivist state of salvation, we are working on the European digital identity, to which you have and hold your whole life can be linked. Think about your money, education, medical status, whether you have a uterus or not, your mobility, your internet behavior and so on. With a simple button, the system can be expressed. It's a utopia for the paternalist elite. Mr. Chairman. The party that once fought for more democracy and against unnecessary government interference and moralism, namely D66, is also over. This party not only locked us in our own house, but also likes to interfere with our lifestyle behind our front door. Like the EU, D66 no longer needs a referendum. Instead, we were given the Conference on the Future of Europe. In addition, as a selected citizen, you were allowed to say your piece about pre-chewed theories. Results were then kneaded in such a way that they became useful for the European Commission, which seeks to legitimise EU integration policies. Corporate social responsibility... Oh, excuse me. I went back. Excuse me. I'll follow. This cabinet already selects for this in the coalition agreement. It reads and I quote: 'We are open to treaty changes following the Conference on the Future of Europe if this is in Dutch and European interest'. In short, the whole Conference is a prelude to the further development of the federal European state, so get your chest wet. From this you can conclude that the European Parliament is not doing its job properly and does not serve the grassroots properly. It's funny, isn't it, that a lot of voters are disillusioned before the European elections? They'll do whatever they want. Rules are applied at will, or not applied at all. For example, the unelected President of the European Commission, Von der Leyen, without any legitimacy indicated that the corrupt Ukraine should only become a member of the European family. The admission process, which normally takes many years, could be reduced to a few weeks. This despite the fact that the European Court of Auditors indicated that the billions to combat large-scale corruption are missing their target. In the report she wrote and I quote: "Oligarchs and parties with vested interests continue to undermine the rule of law in Ukraine and pose a threat to the country's development." It's like Russia. Mr. Chairman. There you are as a Dutch citizen. At first, you had difficulty forcing a referendum, where a "no" rolled out on the association agreement. Then you'll be sent into the forest with an inlay sheet in that treaty that didn't change a letter in the treaty. Rutte then comes up with the statement: the association agreement does not automatically lead to EU membership. And then you have to pay for the promotion of the democratic process in Ukraine. As a cherry on the cake, there's Von der Leyen. It's true it didn't go automatically. First, she had to degrade herself to Zelensky's errand boy by taking the application forms for EU membership into her purse to hand them over personally. That's nice for Turkey, but yes, it's still occupied northern Cyprus. Mr. Chairman. We are being cheated on all sides and not primarily by the European Union, but by our own elitist politicians who have sold their souls and salvation to their European dream. It is therefore significant that the left-wing, green and liberal parties in the Senate immediately seized their chance, having previously agreed by means of a motion for a national flag in this Chamber, to argue passionately for the EU flag to be placed in this Chamber. They are the ones who give our culture, prosperity and country away to the Eurotechnocrats in Brussels. And the little power that we still had through various veto rights is slowly but surely out of our hands. It is entirely in line with Minister Kaag's statement in 2020. She indicated that the Netherlands must sacrifice sovereignty to Europe. She says what the rest of us who are hiding behind the thesis: well, it all has to be Brussels, doesn't it? The European elite is always performing to throw a new crisis on our plate, which is creating more and more chaos. In this way it seeks to pave the way for even more EU integration, so even more things in the rules and a tight straitjacket. Mr President, I will conclude. Children in group 1 learn when they play together in the sandbox to share a shovel and a bucket. But in the big game, the elite rakes everything towards them. Don't play together, don't share anything. It is a harsh reality of the consolidation of power. If they are so concerned with the Netherlands, then after the Brexit the next was proclaimed. The British took back their freedom and made their own treaties, and they really did not become the pariah of the West. The cabinet itself indicates that it looks back positively on the outcome of the negotiations with the United Kingdom, which, despite varying positions, resulted in an orderly withdrawal and a comprehensive partnership. So it is possible, but apparently it is a matter of political will and the choices of this cabinet fall upon the destruction of our own successes and the transfer of sovereignty until there is nothing left to achieve. And they won't leave us alone until we're completely exhausted. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u53	Mrs Faber has a story that covers a lot of subjects, but ultimately it comes down to: there are problems that I am not going to deny in the Netherlands, in Europe and in the world, and in so far as those problems affect us, it is all Europe's fault. That's what I hear Mrs Faber say. I cannot go into all the parts, but I have two points. So I'm not sharing her story at all. I think that the Netherlands has benefited a great deal from European cooperation, which you also consider to be important, and that Dutch prosperity is due to this. We had the Backer motion in a previous debate. This has led to studies that have shown this. Secondly, if you were not in the European Union at all, as a relatively small country, you would have nothing to say to the Netherlands at all. Then the Paris-Berlinas would completely dominate. I think that, precisely in order to have influence in Europe, you should participate in Europe with all the criticism you can have. The first question is: shouldn't you be taking part in the reform of Europe in the right direction? The second question is: can you really solve all the problems, for example in terms of climate, but also in terms of health and safety, in your own country? Is there not a need for a form of European cooperation in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u54	That's a lot of questions at once. I hope I can answer them all well. Otherwise, you're gonna have to come back to it. Firstly, Mr Koole says that I blame the European Union. If you had listened carefully to me, I think you will. You could have heard that I blame the political elite in the Netherlands too. Because it's the political elite who's handing us over. It's the political elite that goes along with all the treaties and all the nonsense that's being put on the table. It is also the political elite who messed us into the euro. I know Mrs Oomen doesn't like the word "messing." But we can't really avoid this word here, because we've been messed up in it. It all started with economic cooperation, and that is good. Working together is fine. We have nothing against that at all, but we have nothing more to say. Look, for example, at the problems created by the European Union, such as the nitrogen problem. The nitrogen problem is killing all our farmers. Due to the nitrogen problem, we can no longer build houses for your migrants, who would like to let your party in. We do not want that at all, but well, that aside. That's gonna lock our whole place down. So these are problems that have been initiated by Brussels, among other things. But I admit that it is not just Brussels; we have gone along with it. At least my party didn't, but most of the parties in this house have gone along with that. You will say: but we cannot do it all alone, because we will be completely dominated by Berlin and Paris if we are not in the European Union. Well, we are now. We don't have anything more to say. Your party is in favour of abolishing the right of veto. Well, then it's our turn. We're a net contributor. I believe that there are only four net contributors in the European Union now, so you can see what happens to all those non-net contributors. They're all gonna vote for things we don't want at all. We're outnumbered. Well, that's what's bothering us, so none of that's gonna work out. The way it is right now, we're just covered. We don't assume our own power anymore. We have gradually developed some kind of calimero complex, like we're so small that we can't do anything anymore. Let us not forget that the second largest port in the world, that of Rotterdam, lies in the Netherlands. That is a very important position, from where we operate the entire hinterland.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u56	They can't just take that away from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u57	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Faber. With Rotterdam you also started your story, so now we're going to repeat a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u58	Can I just say one more thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u59	If you can be very brief, because interruptions are for short questions and brief answers. This does not include this answer. The same goes for Mr. Koole's question. Mrs Faber, just a little bit more. Then I'll give Mr. Koole a chance to ask for something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u60	One more point, about our exports. You say, "It's fine for our business." There is at least 1,000 billion left in TARGET2 payment system. That is a remnant of our exports, because we export more than we import. We're just never gonna get that money, because it's gonna stick. So we paid for our own exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u61	Mr. Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u62	Two small questions. Mrs Faber says that the nitrogen problem was created by Brussels, but is it not created by simply emitting too much nitrogen here, which destroys nature? Second. You say, "We have nothing more to say in Brussels, because the elite are giving it all away." I would say: do you then address the Minister who is in Brussels on our behalf and try to get him on the right path?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u63	I find that last remark too easy, because especially the PvdA is doing everything in its power to be the lackey of Brussels. Mr. Timmermans and Mr. Samsom are doing everything they can to push through this Green Deal, an even worse and bigger money transfer than the euro. They're putting us all in poverty. This whole energy transition and the "climatechange" thing and so on are just an attack on the weak in society, while your party once was the worker's party. That's what you should appeal to, isn't it? But you've become a board member and you're only going for your own political gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u64	Thank you. I shall now turn to the next speaker. No, Mr. Koole wants to say something very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u65	I would like to say something about that, because my party is being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u66	Yeah, he's right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u67	Go ahead. I also heard that Mrs Faber did not speak through the President. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u68	I apologize for that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u69	Because my party is being addressed: if there is something you should try, including as a social democrat, it is maintaining the welfare state. There's a book called The European Rescue of the Nation-State. This means that only through good European cooperation, under conditions, can you maintain the national welfare state and stand up for those who need it very much. That's my party's bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u70	Now Mrs Faber also wants to speak. That's what I'm giving her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u71	And then we'll stop, or I'll have to challenge someone else. No, aside from that... well, I lost my answer because of that, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u72	Then I'll move on to the next speaker. I am now going to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u73	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u74	Go ahead, Mr. Van Rooijen. The Minister will listen, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u75	Yeah, I thought I'd wait a minute, because the minister was trying to get in touch with his machine. Mr. Chairman. My group is also deeply concerned about Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It's a human tragedy of unprecedented magnitude. We are talking today about Europe and the European Union. I would like to link to that: la Sagrada Família. Mr. Chairman. A united Europe remains the great challenge of our continent, which is still experiencing war on its territory. It is true that this war is formally taking place outside the Union, but our involvement is enormous, both emotional and very concrete in terms of aid and reception. It is precisely this ambition to be united that we must all want to feel, cherish and serve, for new generations to have everything in order in a continent where history has been far too much war violence. Yesterday, 6 June, Europe and the world commemorated the allied landing on the beaches of Normandy, which was 78 years ago, I add as almost 80 years old. Mr. Chairman. I sincerely hope that we will soon be able to record Russia's attack on Ukraine as the last thunderstorm after centuries of thunderstorm. Unifying so many countries with their own history and interests, with their different cultures and languages, with their different economies and legal systems, is and remains a huge challenge, certainly because this ambition is based on free will and not on the force imposed by force of one will on another. In the history of mankind, this structure is and remains a truly unique undertaking. Let's call it the Sagrada Família of Brussels, after that beautiful cathedral church under construction in Barcelona. That masterpiece of the great Gaudí, which has been working for more than 140 years, is still not finished. Sagrada família, a sacred family: that is of course a religious concept, but for Europe that title, a holy family, would fit so well. We Europeans are, as it were, one family in the European Union. I would call the goal "never more war" a sacred goal. And Gaudí's creation was not finished in a few years, just like the masterpiece of Jean Monnet, the most important architect of the European Union. Mr. Chairman. How's that Brussels Sagrada Família? It's not finished yet, but it's actually gonna be pretty nice too. Yeah, really, pretty much. But there are still a lot of scaffolding and there are still a lot of holes and dangerous places in the structure. But it remains a unique work, and we are all certainly quite a long way. What is the most important thing at the moment? As far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is to ensure that it remains a project of all of us, not just of politicians and civil servants. Having said that, I am concerned. More and more often you get the feeling that political and civil service problems and decisions are going to be more important than the atmosphere and support in society. Of course, society has many views and interests, but too often I hear the words "obligatory," "strong control" and more of those kinds of expressions that you would expect in a re-education camp. The government seems so cramped and in a hurry to stay at the ball, that the citizens are mainly brought into the ranks. Climate and environment are so important that the government seems to prefer to force the public, farmer and industry into straitjacket because of the desired outcome. Mr. Chairman. There's no way 50PLUS is gonna wait for a government like that. How tempting can it be if the housing shortage remains high, forcing or forcing older people to leave their homes? You may find that sound strange now, but farmers have heard more and more about getting out of business and forcing them to quit. Mr. Chairman. The polarisation, political fragmentation, distrust and cynicism in society show the lack of a benevolent sense of trust. We want to check everything because otherwise we don't trust it anymore. We're bullying and screaming on social media. They're all symptoms of illness, fever symptoms of a body that's out of order. Is that all up to the government? No, definitely not. Society is us together. But where commonality has been pushed into the background and sources of moral and ethical behavior, such as the churches, have been put into the background, the government will have to be more aware of this risky directionlessness for society. But you don't fix it with compulsion and strict control. The Christian faith preferably directed social behavior through self-motivation. What does this have to do with Europe? Europe is in the big what a Member State is in the small. Of course, the world is globalizing. A century ago they had a different local time in Arnhem than in Amsterdam. And when an American asks a younger person where they come from, he no longer says "from Deventer" or "from the Netherlands," but "from Europe." Global awareness has been growing for a long time. But what is Europe then? The citizens already hear far too often: Europe must do so. Europe is not represented as a community of free citizens, but as a bogeyman state. Take nitrogen. That too strict regime for the Netherlands, which puts us in the misery of housing, economic and agricultural, is even covered by the Dutch court. The decision is therefore completely scratch-proof. It's Europe's job. Mr. Chairman. It is not very attractive to build a union that forces us instead of helping and motivating us. Of course, the Netherlands participated in the decision-making process. They didn't know about that at home, unfortunately. But exactly what I was referring to: policy without citizens and then strict and coercive. We're not China, are we? If we really want a Europe of free citizens, then they must also have the opportunity to experience that freedom. What exactly is civil freedom? That is freedom within borders, within the limits of interconnectedness and within the limits of responsibility. Interconnection is a necessary condition for European decisions to be taken in the near future, possibly without a right of veto, but only where it can be done. This can be done in certain areas, but not in tax matters, for example, in the case of enlargement of the EU and not in the case of changes to EU treaties. Mutual responsibility does not make the decision unbinding, but other interests and proportionality must be taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Is it not primarily a matter of working on this, rather than constantly taking new decisions quickly? I would like to hear the government's considerations. Mr. Chairman. We at 50PLUS believe in the ideal of a united Europe. We believe in the Sagrada Família of Brussels, but only as long as the national and the umbrella European government has a lived and recognised practice of serving that beautiful multicultural Europe and not ruling it. We call on each Member State and the European Union to raise the issue of acceptance as quickly as possible, from Lapland to Greece and from Ireland to actually Russia, and to make Europe the continent par excellence of free and responsible citizens. Mr. Chairman. My group has asked almost no specific questions, but also asks the Minister to give his views on our Europe, on the Europe of the future, on the future of our children and grandchildren. My generation was raised after the war with the birth of the European Economic Community of six countries, which founded the European Economic Community in 1956. I remember. That community has now become a family of 27. Our task is to pass on a more mature European family and a more mature Europe to future generations. I am very curious about the view of this Christian Democrat minister. After all, Christian democracy has been at the root of the European construction and is also based on sovereignty in its own circle. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question. There's a race against the clock to save the export of Ukrainian grain. Famine threatens otherwise in Africa and Asia. Last week I personally discussed this with the Minister for Development Cooperation. What does the cabinet want to do to speed up this process, this race against the clock? I'd like a response from the Minister. I'm curious about his vision of our vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u76	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I shall now suspend a number of committee meetings until 3.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u77	I give the floor to Mrs Stienen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. On 22 February I led the Ukrainian MEP Evheniia Kravtchuk in this plenary room. She was here for a study on the role of women in justice, security and peace organisations for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I told her about the history of our democracy, our rule of law and about our active role in the European Union. She listened and looked at her phone all the time, because she was worried about what was happening in her country. Two days later, in the morning of February 24th, I woke up with apps from Eevheniia about bombing in her own city and the cities of Ukraine. They were apps with footage of Russian bombing. As with colleagues, the war is also a central theme in our contribution to this debate for D66. In the light of that war, on behalf of D66, I would like to place three important objectives for our democratic society at the heart of our story. These are three objectives which we also recognise in the State of the Union. The first is the promise of freedom in union in peace and prosperity. The second is the protection of citizens and the provision of security in a world of conflicting ideologies. The third is the civilisation that we want to cherish and protect in Europe from internal and external threats. We can achieve these objectives for our citizens because our country as a member of the European Union and as a contracting party to the European Convention on Human Rights is part of a political and economic value community. The international legal order is a bright spot in dark days. I have prepared this contribution with my colleague Joris Backer, whom I can replace today. I would like to ask, on his behalf, what is going on with the further implementation of the 2020 Backer motion on the broader welfare analysis of EU membership for the Netherlands. When I worked as a diplomat myself, I was proud to say that human rights are the basis for sustainable stability. In the words of the predecessor of Minister Hoekstra, his party mate Maxime Verhagen, if he would hear that I quote him in the First Chamber; will anyone pass that on to him? Speaking of which, human rights apply to everyone, everywhere and always. Those were the days. Putin doesn't see it that way. It's obvious. Putin has been violating the territorial integrity of the neighbouring Ukraine for years. Think of the annexation of Crimea and the war in Eastern Ukraine with the taking down of MH17. Meanwhile, Russia was the main pillar of Bashar Al-Assad's crimes against its people in Syria. Our colleagues have already asked this, but I also ask the Minister: what else could we have done in relation to Russia? The promise of freedom in connection with the prospect of a better life and peace and prosperity has been called into question by the Ukrainian people. For D66, the Ukrainian people have the same right to do so as we all do. The protection that many Ukrainian citizens had hoped for from NATO was lacking. There are, of course, reasons for this, such as the nuclear threat, but that is of little use to this population. Political protection in the form of political solidarity was and has been shown by the European Union, even in remarkable unity and even resulting in EU financing of military expenditure. Does the Minister consider that the Netherlands makes a proportionate contribution to military supplies? If not, what could be the next step? What risk assessment does the cabinet make of this? On the battlefield, the civilization we thought we could cherish on this continent has turned out to be a thin layer. It seems that the right of war, which codifies the minimum level of humane association with each other in times of war, has been violated by the Russian army in the areas around Kiev, Boetsha and Marioepol. I'll come back to this later. The Minister has been on the spot and undoubtedly has an informed picture of what options President Zelensky is still available to defend his country. What is the assessment of the Minister of Choices for Ukraine, in addition to fighting to the bitter end? What choices does the Minister see for Russia? I realize these are big questions. We do not have a clear answer, but in such a debate we must have an investigative attitude together. What can the EU do for Ukraine in the short term? How does the Minister see Zelensky's critical response to the lack of clear support from the Netherlands for his country's aspirations to become a member of the European Union in the future? And what commitment does the government think the EU should have towards Russia? Mr. Chairman. It took at least three events to have the inward political debate in our country for the first time really different from what we have done with each other over the past decade. The question is whether 2022 for our children and grandchildren will sound like 1914, 1933, 1940, or as a new turning point, or a Zeitenwente, as the eastern neighbours call it so beautiful, in which, despite the dark days of war and crisis, we managed to absorb the boomerang of history and really protected and nurtured European values and civilisation, in which European cooperation turned out to be a light. I opened the war in Ukraine, but there are at least two other events that give many people sleepless nights: the consequences of the corona pandemic and the climate crisis. Last year I had to call my mother and my daughter if they had to be evacuated in Maastricht and Roermond, and then it really comes very close to home. What the Russian war in Ukraine, the corona pandemic and the climate crisis have in common is that they portray our own vulnerability. It is up to us to build confidence that the unparalleled resilience that is sometimes invisible in our European cooperation is now much better exploited to meet the challenges together. That was already visible in the corona pandemic. In this context, I ask the Minister what is the status of the Dutch application for funds from the corona recovery fund. To the great satisfaction of the D66 Group, the basis for a more active Europe policy was already explicitly laid down in the government agreement of the Rutte IV cabinet. Both Minister Kaag and Minister Hoekstra went to Maastricht. Indeed, a good time: 30 years after the Maastricht Treaty was concluded. There was a supportive, more flexible attitude of Minister Kaag at the follow-up phase of the Stability and Growth Pact for the post-corona period. We also welcome Minister Hoekstra's constructive speech on further political and strategic cooperation in the EU. Other colleagues have already asked for the follow-up to the citizens' councils and the conference on the future of Europe. My group also likes to hear more about this. In the YouTube registration of the Minister's speech, I noticed that he himself was very positive about the possibilities that this could offer in the discussion with the audience in the audience. The Russian war in Ukraine has suddenly added a whole new geopolitical dimension to this more active Europe policy to the cautious wording of the coalition agreement. It reminds me of what Loesje wrote: it is so dark that I see lights everywhere. The D66 Group sees this as an appropriate motto for the Ukrainians, the rest of European society and certainly for ourselves. We wonder if the war was the eurekament for Minister Hoekstra. Was that the moment when he realized that the battle in Ukraine is at its core a bigger issue than just an act of war, that Europe as a democratic continent must defend itself against an inconspicuous autocracy? Was this also the time when the Minister realized that much more extensive cooperation in the EU is needed for this than the Dutch Government has previously considered desirable and possible? My group is therefore happy to hear how the Minister sees the following statement in the Council of State's Annual Report 2021. I quote: 'This war forces us to think carefully about the importance and value of the international legal order. A robust international legal order is important not only in times of war, but also in peacetime." The enhanced strategic and defence cooperation in the EU is seen by my group as a light for both Dutch citizens and Ukrainian citizens in the long term. Then cooperation within NATO's European countries will also have to involve better division of tasks and procurement of military equipment and not just increasing defence budgets while maintaining inefficiencies that are still there. My group would like to hear more about what the Minister called a defensive strike in his Maastricht speech: more investment, more specialisation and much better cooperation. What does this mean in practice? And where are we gonna get the people to do this? What opportunities for better EU/NATO cooperation are there for military cooperation with Germany, the possible accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO and the changing attitude of Denmark towards European defence cooperation? And, not unimportantly, how do we prevent Erdogan from taking the EU hostage in this situation right now? Of course, because of the vulnerability of gas and geographical differences for all these countries, but the decision of these countries to deepen cooperation illustrates how wrong the Russian President's assessment that the EU would be divided and that the Member States would each pursue their own interests. My group also thinks that this is a good thing. Unwantedly, the raid by the large oil and gas producer Russia has confronted many customers with their vulnerability. Despite the difficult energy transition with rising energy prices, affecting households and businesses, and rapidly rising inflation, my group also sees a light here, namely the urgency for European citizens and our government, especially Minister Jetten, of speeding up the necessary transition. In this context, my group would like to hear from the Minister what lessons are learned from the recommendations of sanctions coordinator Stef Blok for better EU cooperation on sanctions. Other Members have already mentioned it, and we can see that the government is prepared to exchange the unanimity rule for certain decisions in the European Council for a majority decision. We believe that this is essential in order to maintain European solidarity. What will the Netherlands do in this? When it comes to protection and civilisation, my group welcomes the enormous solidarity that exists in Europe for the reception of Ukrainian displaced persons. This certainly applies to the neighbouring countries of Ukraine, such as Poland and Moldova. At the same time, my group is uncomfortable with the green light given by the European Commission for the billions that Poland can get from the European Recovery Fund. Has there really been any improvement in the safeguards for the judiciary in Poland to continue to work independently? On the one hand, my group understands the Commission's dilemma now that Poland is receiving so many Ukrainians, but on the other hand it also gives the impression that the principles of the rule of law can be negotiated. What is the position of the Dutch Government on this Commission decision and how does the Minister view the position of Von der Leyen as five members of its Commission disagree with this support to Poland? Mr. Chairman. My group supports the Dutch government's commitment to justice and investigation into war crimes in Ukraine. We also see an important role for the International Criminal Court. How does the Minister assess Ukraine's willingness to become a party to the Treaty of Rome? When it comes to protecting our civilisation, I would particularly like to draw attention to the reports that Russian soldiers are using rape as a weapon of war against Ukrainian women and girls. We hear that men and boys are also victims of this. From other wars and conflicts, we know that when we focus on gender equality in the aftermath of conflicts, there is a greater chance of a lasting peaceful solution. How can the Netherlands play a role within the EU? Here too, we see a light in the darkness, because my group welcomes the decision of the cabinet of 13 May last to focus on a feminist foreign policy, just as other countries within the EU, such as Sweden, Germany and France, have already done. For the viewers at home, I would like to quote Margot Wallström, who said that as long as 50% of the world's population has less access to education, work, health and political participation, we must work on this so that everyone can have a better future. This decision came in response to questions from our group about the joint communication on the EU-Gender Action Plan that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had produced a report that was the basis of this decision. The letter and the report raise a number of questions, which we will discuss in writing. The State of the Union shall include a comprehensive paragraph on gender equality, sexual and reproductive health and rights and equal rights for Ihbti persons. The conclusions of my report The gender dimension of foreign policy, which I wrote for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, show that a feminist foreign policy can only be successful if ministers show the political will to work actively for this policy. How will the Minister make a personal effort to ensure that this decision of the Council of Ministers is widely supported within all relevant ministries? How is he going to promote this new policy in the public debate? What does this decision mean for the commitment of the Netherlands at national, European and international level? In view of the worrying developments in certain EU Member States regarding the rights of Ihbti individuals, my group also asks what the Dutch are doing within the EU. I notice in the Council of Europe that our country still has a good reputation as a pioneer of these rights, but is that true? And while we are at the Council of Europe: as leader of the Dutch delegation of the PACE, I would like to draw attention to this briefly. The Istanbul Convention on Combating Violence against Women can be a good guide for feminist foreign policy. How does the Minister see the opportunities for the promise of greater freedom, protection of citizens and the cherishing of civilisation on the European continent in cooperation between the European Union and the Council of Europe? In conclusion. For the D66 Group, it is precisely in this turbulent time that the Dutch government should ensure that the European Union provides a light in the darkness when it comes to the promise of freedom and security, protection and civilisation for the Dutch and all other Europeans. The D66 Group looks forward with interest to answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u79	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u80	I know Mrs Stienen as someone who is always very committed to gender equality and feminist policies. Now we are talking about feminist foreign policy. Before you know it, it's all misunderstood. Can Mrs Stienen explain again what feminist foreign policy is different from foreign policy, which simply takes very great account of equality in the treatment of people, women and others, and that this equality promotes? Isn't that a normal foreign policy that should always have that aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u81	Thank you to Mr Koole for this beautiful question. When Margot Wallström started as a champion of feminist foreign policy, she also got quite critical, also from the Netherlands, saying: we are already committed to women's rights worldwide. But this is going a little further. This is really about looking at equality for all genders in the economic, social, military and political fields, so man, woman and everything in between, also looking at how to shape that in a realistic way in terms of rights, representation and resources. I would like to share with this Chamber a figure from the European Institute for Gender Equality. If you calculate it, it will cost violence, gender-based violets there violence against women is part of European society EUR 366 billion a year. So I understand very well that 'feminist foreign policy' sounds like we want to go to the moon for some people, but if you look at what is actually happening, at this violence behind the front door in our European countries, it costs so much only at social costs. And we're not even talking about emotional and psychological costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u82	I am pleased with this very broad explanation. I would therefore ask Mrs Stienen whether this is quite different from a foreign policy which, according to our Constitution, is aimed at the international legal order, and therefore also at the values set out in Article 1 of our Constitution. These must be pursued, including in the international field.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u83	I very much believe that everything you pay attention to is getting bigger. I am also very pleased with Minister Hoekstra's attention on this issue. He has said it himself: I am a feminist. I feel that, too. So I hope this is no longer on page 35 of the plans but on the first page.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u84	Mrs Stienen advocates a feminist foreign policy. But how am I supposed to see that your party leader, Mrs Kaag, when she was at the Foreign Office, went on a visit to the ayatollah, while other foreign ministers and diplomats, including women, were unveiled there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u85	Mrs Kaag herself said that it was an obligation in Iran. She has done this in the service of the Netherlands. I know from her that she has never worn a veil in all the other Islamic countries where she has traveled if she shouldn't. I can also say that from personal experience. Where I didn't have to, I never did. But I think that Mrs Kaag herself has said the best. She acted in the service of Dutch interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u86	But if it was so mandatory, how come President Trump's family members were just visiting the same ayatollah unveiled in the same time slot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u87	I'd like to figure it out for the second term, but if I'm well informed, that meeting wasn't on Iranian soil but somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u88	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u89	I would like to ask another question. It's not about this, but I thought I'd do it all in one go, when Mrs. Stienen is done. Is that okay? I understand. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About gender equality. The PVV also believes that everyone is equal before the law. But aren't we getting a little crazy? For example, look at transgender women. I'm sure you've seen it through the chairman, but at a swimming match, a transgender man just took off with the first prize. The women then have the check. Are we not going to go so far as to put women at a disadvantage? Because in the end, a man is different from a woman, biologically speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u90	Stay with the General European Reviews, Mrs Faber. But this is perhaps also a European phenomenon. Mrs. Stienen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u91	I must honestly say that I just haven't given enough attention to this particular case of sportsmen and women and their ability to swim hard or not. I'm giving everyone a gold medal. I am convinced that Mrs Faber also gives that to all sportsmen and women who work hard for their sport. But I do think that we should stick in this context to the government's decision to pursue a feminist foreign policy. A very in-depth investigation has been carried out. And if you look at the enormous annual social costs of the pain that people suffer from violence against women, here in the Netherlands and in many other countries, then I am incredibly pleased that the government has decided to make that effort within the EU framework as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u92	Mrs Faber, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u93	I understand that Mrs Stienen is incredibly happy about that. Of course, it's wonderful if women can just live in freedom and do their thing, but I think Mrs Stienen is very happy that she doesn't live in an Islamic country. That is where the position of the woman is very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u94	Finally, Mrs Stienen, in the European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u95	If we are going to compare, I would like to throw in one more: I believe that more women have become president or prime minister in countries with an Islamic majority than in the Netherlands. In this respect, we can sometimes learn something.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u96	Now it is time to go to the next speaker. That is Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u97	Mr. Chairman. My group is not considering a single motion, I repeat: no motion for a resolution. But let me start with a quote. "European cooperation is a reality, a path on which going back is not possible and undesirable for an internationally oriented trading country. That forces politicians to work on further institutional improvements." This statement by the minister's predecessor, Mr Luns, is certainly not dated, but rather guiding the VVD: constantly working on improvements. A way back is not possible and is also undesirable from an economic and a trade perspective. That was so in the early days of the European Community, and that is still the case. Cooperation is crucial in many policy areas. This has been clear since the creation of the European Union 30 years ago. In the field of JHA, independent action in asylum and migration policy is no longer conceivable. This also applies to the fight against crime and terrorism. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of bad guys, the war in Ukraine and the unacceptable, ruthless actions of the Russians force us to strengthen European cooperation in many areas. In the annual General European Reviews, the document is based on the State of the Union. I'll do that again this year. I will focus on some specific issues. It is impossible, however important other policy areas, such as climate and energy policy, to address everything within the deadline. But even without general European reflections, these issues will undoubtedly enrich our agenda in the near future. Mr. Chairman. The government summarises the priorities identified by the Commission in the State of the Union in three horizontal themes in the strengthening of the Union and thus brings more focus. That is a great improvement with last year's document, which was rather a dry list than a policy document. I shall deal with these three themes: the Union as a geopolitical leader, 'leader' with short-term good governance and respect for the rule of law principles and the strengthening of economic and social convergence. In addition to these three subjects, I will briefly address the findings of the CPB report, which was issued following the Backer motion, and ask about the results of the Conference on the future of the European Union. Now that the Minister is often in diplomatic circles, I will pay less attention to own resources and financial frameworks. My group has asked further questions to the Minister for Finance and is anxious to wait for the answers. As you know, Mr President, it is quite unusual to talk about money in diplomatic circles. It is considered a somewhat vulgar subject. You have money and you don't talk about it, and if you don't have it, you certainly don't. Now you can also imagine how plightful the position of a financial council is at a representation or an embassy. However, the VVD Group agrees with the information provided that the government is not in favour of a modernisation fund to be set up, nor of a social fund under Fit for 55 plans and also wants to avoid the adaptation of the Multiannual Financial Framework. If the Minister can clearly confirm these some common passages in the State of the Union, then my group would very much appreciate it. Let us begin with a stronger Europe in the world. Europe must be a player and not a playing field. This is a popular one-liner that has been in a somewhat different context since 24 February. For concrete policy measures, the government refers to the Strategic Compass recently adopted in March. But if you read the 47 pages, you will find that it is mainly a list of good intentions and the pursuit of closer cooperation with many bilateral partners, regional and multilateral organisations. Better cooperation is, of course, desirable, but what is the stake? What do you want to achieve? Organisations such as the African Union, which I have often dealt with in the past, do not excel in efficiency and have very few powers. In short, the question to the Minister is what the government wants. Strengthening EU-NATO cooperation is, of course, excellent. However, the role of Mr Borrell and his CFSP institution, the so-called External Action Service, in which efficiency can also be achieved, is not exactly welcomed by my group. Here again the question: what should the enhanced cooperation look like in concrete terms? Is the role of individual Member States subordinate to EU input? Is an additional decision-making layer introduced before action can be taken? And what is the role of the European Parliament in this area? The strategic document also talks about speeding up decision-making. Can the government indicate how to achieve this within the current Treaty provisions? There must also be great financial solidarity and solidity in this context. This isn't gonna work out. The Minister will be able to explain to the VVD Group what this means. Finally. A rapidly deployable EU capacity of up to 5,000 men is also being created. Beautiful. But why 5,000? Isn't that too modest? In what situations are these troops deployed? Who's in command? How is NATO involved and how is the bill paid? Europe must become stronger, more independent, more efficient and more effective. This can be read on almost every page of the document. For the CFSP, this operation should be improved by the introduction of qualified majority voting. This strengthens the democratic Europe against the more influential autocrats. This was emphasised by the Minister in his Europe speech on Schumann Day, 9 May last. I'd like to nuance that image a little bit. Take the French president. The current one seems to be a strong supporter of qualified majority voting. The French President must share his influence with the government in the domestic sphere, which sometimes results in a somewhat difficult cohabitation, just look at Mitterand and Chirac. That partnership didn't always go too far. In foreign policy matters, the President is virtually autonomous. He doesn't consult his prime minister, let alone the Assemblée nationale. The Sphinx Mitterand was a clear example of this. The question arises as to why the French President would call the foreign representative Borrell if he did not even call his own Prime Minister, other than to give him orders. That is not what we mean by strengthening cooperation. And I have another nuance. Some decisions are already being taken by qualified majority, such as in the case of the redistribution of 120,000 refugees across the Member States in 2015. This policy, which was adopted without unanimity, has completely failed and has increased the removal between Poland, Hungary and some other Member States and Brussels. In conclusion, should a decision be taken by a majority or a qualified majority through a new decision-making mechanism, will the countries which have been overruled comply with the commitments made in the absence of a functioning sanction mechanism? I think I doubt it. I have a purely hypothetical example. What would the Union have done if Hungary avoided an import ban through the existing direct oil pipeline, which does not cover EU territory? Nothing. That is why they got their way last week by excluding this section from a possible boycott in the long term. Please have a reflection from the Minister. The second issue I would like to raise is the importance of good governance and the principles of rule of law. The government attaches great importance to this, and it was evident from the debate we had on this in February that this was laid down in the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u98	In the tradition of the VVD, as we have known for decades, there are many questions, skeptical questions, too, asked, for example about the majority decision-making. I wonder if anything has changed in the VVD's vision after 24 February as to how the European Union should position itself globally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u99	The policy of the VVD is always pragmatic and realistic. Nothing's ever changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u100	Yes, pragmatic and realistic. Do you also have a vision or do you say after Mr Rutte: a vision is an elephant in the room and we do not need it? Do I understand that this is the position of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u101	Well, when you hear my speech, you'll hear that a clear vision is laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u102	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u103	My question was as follows. Russia's aggression, which does not concern itself with the international legal order, and the threats we see, have caused a situation in which everyone is reflecting. My question is what is actually the reflection of the VVD on the position of the EU in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u104	One of the reflections, Mrs Karimi, is that the VVD has always advocated strong defence and that we are now accelerating to the 2% of GDP. This has not been advocated by every party in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u105	I was just triggered by Mr Van Ballekom's raging text at the beginning of his speech. Money, you have it and you don't talk about it; that's apparently the VVD position. My question to Mr Ballekom is: what do you say with this position, which seems to be bon ton within the VVD, to the millions of people who are now unable to pay their energy bills and who are in serious trouble because of inflation and energy supply from Russia, who stops because of the war in Ukraine? Do you have a witty motto for that? That is my question to Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u106	I made those comments, Mr Otten, towards the Foreign Minister, whom I grilled on own resources and financial matters when he was here in his capacity as Minister of Finance. I'm doing a little less of that now. That fate is now in the hands of Mrs Kaag. I have already done so in the input on the proposals presented by the European Commission at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u107	But that wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u108	No, your question...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u109	My question was: what do you say to those millions of Dutch people who are no longer able to pay their energy bills, or who have to carry bags for €10 per hour at Schiphol Airport, from which they cannot make ends meet? Then you can say: money, you don't talk about it. You might say that with the VVD, but that does not apply to 80% of the Netherlands, or at least half of the Netherlands. What's your message to these people? I miss that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u110	You take my remark entirely out of context, Mr. Otten. I made that remark to the Minister of Finance. Wage and income policy is not determined in a European debate, but during the General Financial Reviews or the General Political Reviews. I think that the present cabinet, with the progress it has made in the Spring Paper, has made a good start at least to ease the lives of those who are struggling. Did you have any other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u111	Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Ballekom. And from now on, would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u112	As has already been said, the government attaches importance to the principles of rule of law. The government attaches great importance to this and this has also been demonstrated in the debate we held in February. This is also laid down in the State of the Union. It is a good thing that the government continues to act vigorously to protect democratic and constitutional values. The Court of Justice's ruling on the MFF rule of law is welcomed. My group is curious as to what this powerful action is really about. Has it led to initiatives to improve procedures and not just to limit them to the MFF rule of law? Should the conference on the future of Europe still lead to initiatives to amend the Convention, it is necessary to amend Article 7 of the present Convention in such a way that it does not remain a dead letter. Improving the rules to increase the enforceability of agreed policies can be crucial in view of possible future enlargements of the Union. The findings of the European Court of Auditors on the lack of progress in developing the rule of law principles in the potentially acceding countries of the Western Balkans are endorsed by the Government. They're worried, that's how we can read. It is noted that there is simply a lack of political will. Without the amendment of Article 7, enlargement of the Union will, in our view, be a difficult matter. Does the government endorse this vision? The need to work on effective sanction procedures has only been repeated over the past week. With some windowdressing, Poland has persuaded the Commission to lift the blockade on the payment of the recovery funds. The Polish judiciary considers the adjustments to be absolutely insufficient and the Commission has even voted on them. As in the Dutch Council of Ministers, this is rare. Our own Commissioner has also made a clear comment on this. After weeks of chicaning, Hungary has also turned the oil boycott into an ineffective instrument: the boycott only goes in part and then in the long term. It gives Mr Putin all the time to find alternative markets. Democratic legitimacy must be improved. You're right. In doing so, it is crucial to respect the commitments made. And while we are talking about new entrants, is it not more attractive for the interested states to make the trade and association agreements even more lucrative than having to wait endlessly in a waiting room? Decades of negotiations lead to frustration. Turkey is an example of this. In the case of Ukraine, I think it would be a good thing if Europe were to show itself on its best side by removing all barriers to trade and making a maximum contribution to reconstruction. The idea of B-membership of the European Union, recently put forward by Mr Macron, will have little enthusiasm. That idea was launched during the previous wave of accession, but died silently.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u113	I'd like to get to Poland. Mr Van Ballekom has rightly spoken critically about this. But does he agree with me that now that the implementing decision is to be put to the approval of the Ministers, the Dutch Foreign Minister should vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u114	Well, I understand that it is being debated today in the European Parliament and that it has even led to a motion of mourning, disapproval or mistrust. Let's just wait and see how this discussion goes. I thought the initiative had been taken by a well-known D66 forewoman in the European Parliament. I believe that the government will be as critical as the VVD Group in the European Council, or in whatever council this subject may be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u115	Yeah, that was another answer. Mr Van Ballekom cannot choose: if I am in a good mood, I shall pass decisions on to the European Parliament. We are here in a debate with our government, with our foreign minister. He will most likely have to give his opinion on this. Then it is of course good if we also hear from the VVD what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u116	I think I am very clear, Mrs Karimi: we must be extremely critical. The VVD would not shed any tears if the European Commission returned to the decision taken. Thirdly, Mr President, the strengthening of social and economic convergence. The best guarantee of upward social and economic convergence is good governance, fighting corruption, nurturing democratic procedures, improving the functioning of the internal market and removing trade barriers through the conclusion of trade agreements. This includes CETA, the Trade Agreement with Canada. It is right that the government in the State of the Union should emphasise this, also because it is directly relevant to the earning capacity of the Netherlands. The implementation of reforms and sustainable public finances are necessary to build up sufficient buffers for the future. The VVD supports this view of the government. But is it wise to postpone compliance with the Treaty provisions in this area for another year, especially in the light of the President of the European Central Bank's remark that two further interest rates are to be expected until September? These already have an impact on the Dutch budget with an additional setback of 5 billion due to the increased interest rate on government bonds. But these effects will be more marked in the large deficit countries and they can seriously hamper growth and strengthening convergence, despite all costly recovery operations. The earning power, Mr. Chairman. That is a nice transition to the CPB report which was issued following Mr Backer's motion on the benefits of European membership. The method focuses on commercial benefits. Of course, it is quite natural and understandable that the burden on trade is lower with the EU and the internal market than without the EU, but there are more methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u117	Let me return to what Mr Van Ballekom was just talking about: the increases in interest rates and the decline in convergence. Our group also shares that view. We all know that Italy has a sovereign debt, I thought of 1,800 billion.I don't know exactly.... but at least 170% to 180% of GDP. If interest rates are to rise, what is now happening worldwide, how does Mr Van Ballekom intend to maintain this convergence in the euro area? Then how do you see the solution? We have a setback of 5 billion, but there will soon be a setback of 100 billion or more. How do you see the euro area solving that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u118	In my time Italy had a high debt, but barely borrowed it on the public capital market, because the Italians went to buy massive government bonds at the invitation of the President of the Italian Republic. By the way, they did so in Belgium. I don't know what would happen in the Netherlands if our Prime Minister said "you have to buy government bonds." I think a lot of people are gonna argue against it and say, "I'm sure there's something going on, so I'm just gonna sell them. But okay, here's the thing about Belgium and Italy. Moreover, I do not think Italy is the most important problem, because Italy has a trade surplus. In such cases, that's a confidence-building pillow, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u119	I agree with Mr Van Ballekom on that last point. It is true that Prime Minister Rutte does not say "buy government bonds." That is not necessary, because they are already bought by pension funds in the Netherlands. They have 1,500 billion in management and there are all kinds of politicians in government, including a number of First Chamber members. They're bought by that route, so that's a different situation. I would also like to point out to Mr Van Ballekom that the Italian union market after the United States is the largest union market in the world, precisely because this debt is so high. If the interest rate rises, then there comes a point... Or does Mr Van Ballekom believe that if you only have enough liquidity in your country, you can also maintain 300% or 400% debt? 'Cause then we're gonna have somethin' to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u120	No, and that has also been demonstrated by the interventions I made during the General Financial Reviews. Some of the parties in this house said, "Mr Van Ballekom, you belong to the old school. The money is free, so we need to borrow as much as possible to solve society's problems." I said then, and you can read it back in the Minutes of the sitting, that it is not for nothing that the criteria are in the Maastricht Treaty and that there must be a cautious budgetary policy, because ultimately it will always lead to inflation. This has been done and has been triggered by the incorruptible war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u121	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u122	I would like to remind Mr Van Ballekom of the ever-excellent blue booklet, page 63. There he can see exactly all the sovereign debts of the European countries. Then you will see that all non-euro countries are in the list of countries that meet the criteria. And all countries that do not comply are euro countries. The Netherlands is one of the few euro countries that comply with these criteria. I said the same thing, and you can check it out. If Mr Van Ballekom has dinner with a large group, everyone has steak and champagne and Mr Van Ballekom has a cheese sandwich and a glass of milk, then he is de facto subsidising others. That is, of course, what we are doing. So if you want to join this system, you should have borrowed some more money when the money was free. That's right. That was our position, but yes, it's too late now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u123	Borrowing to borrow is also a very unwise point of view. The Rutte II government, with great commitment and strength, has reduced budget deficits during the financial crisis. This reform policy worked because the growth rates of the Dutch economy were disproportionately high for the corona crisis compared to other Member States. So that policy works. When you implement austerity policies, that does not mean that this is at the expense of your economic growth, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u124	Do I understand Mr Van Ballekom correctly that he has just said that with the expected increases in interest rates by the ECB, of two times 0.25%, in July and September, the State's interest charges increase by 5 billion? Or did he mean that the increase in ten-year interest rates is the cause of a huge increase in interest rates on our public debt? The ten-year interest rate was -0.2% in December, which is now 1.6%. So that's almost 2% interest rate increase in six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u125	Then I've misread myself, for which I apologize. The increases in interest rates since December last year have already led to a setback in the state's 5 billion. I said in my speech that the President of the European Central Bank announced two further increases in interest rates until September. That won't go unnoticed by the state treasury. That is what we are going to explicitly question the Minister of Finance, Kaag, during the Political and Financial Reviews in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u126	I'm looking forward to that, too. Mr Van Ballekom and I agree that ten-year interest rates have risen by almost 2% in a six-month period, to 1.6% today. That is an increase of almost 2%. Do you not think it is high time to index pensions simply in the existing system, because the level of coverage is now going through the roof and because of that almost 2% increase has increased by 40%?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u127	Well, Mr. Van Rooijen, I look forward to the debates in this Chamber on the revision of the pension system. In doing so, the issue of the interest rate will probably be raised by you. But I would not like to have that debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u128	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u129	But that wasn't my question. My question was not about the future pension system, which may never come or need not come. If the calculation rate is 2%, then it can simply be indexed. You don't need a new system for that. But do you agree with me that it is very reasonable to allow a substantial indexing of pensions this year, because the interest rate and ten-year interest rate are now going through the roof? That is completely separate from any debate in the Second and First Chambers about a system that is probably never going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u130	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u131	I don't know if that system's ever gonna happen. I think we can expect proposals from the government soon. They are already under discussion in the House of Representatives, so they will come here with certainty. Then I'd like to have the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u132	We now return to the General European Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u133	We had the trade benefits method to calculate the benefit of the European Union, but there are more methods. Mr Backer will perhaps read it again. One of these methods is also mentioned in Lord Cockfield's 1985 White Paper on the effects of the creation of an internal market. The effects were also positive for the Netherlands, but relatively more positive for closed markets, such as Spain under Franco and Portugal under Salazar. That is understandable, because these markets were opened up and that generated a huge boost. That impulse was also there for the Netherlands, only to a lesser extent, because our economy was already open. The same applies to the effects of the introduction of the euro. The countries with a relatively weak currency, such as the peseta, the drachma and the escudo, benefited most in the first instance. It led the Greeks to live above their standards, with all the consequences of that, as we later experienced. The same picture emerges from this CPB report too: small countries benefit more from the market, which is logical, because they have a smaller domestic market and countries that used to have a closed economy, such as in Eastern Europe, benefit disproportionately; the best example is Poland. The Netherlands also benefits, and so does Belgium, Luxembourg, Ireland and all kinds of other Eastern European countries. When the single market and the euro were introduced, the Structural Funds were doubled in size each time. So for these countries, the knife was cut on both sides. That is what they were awarded, if they had even maintained the rules and had not strengthened the system's survival by falsifying statistical data or simply failing to comply with agreements made. All this does not alter the fact that the Netherlands benefits, but that is not disproportionate. On the other hand, we are also relatively paying the most to the European Union. In short, all this shows that we must nurture the internal market and strengthen the euro area, but it must be put in perspective. It should not be the case that all unevenness and flaws should be covered with the cloak of love, because we would enjoy excessive advantage. In the VVD's vision, we must constantly work for improvements in the system, to increase prosperity and well-being and thus also to combat cynicism. Mr. Chairman. This leads me directly to the last issue I would like to address: making improvements to the system. We are all very much in favour of that, I think. But if it requires a treaty change, what is the government thinking? As mentioned earlier in my speech, the introduction of majority decision-making is not always the solution. The passages on the Civil Forum, as in the State of the Union, do not directly convince my group. Setting up a forum doesn't work by definition. First of all, the citizens will often want to be involved who are interested in the well-being of the Union. In all likelihood, that is a very select company. The interest isn't that great. This is evident from the turnout rates in the European elections. What is the result if all those enthusiastic plans and ideas that have been suggested fail? I do not believe that this narrows the gap between the electorate and the elected. In short, the best representative citizens' forums we know, and there are many representatives of the people in the Chamber, the States and the Councils. An appreciation by the government of the outcome of the conference will be presented shortly. Unfortunately, that was not possible prior to this debate. My group looks forward to the opinion of the government. Perhaps this afternoon the Minister could give us a hint of the veil, so that we can take this into account in the debate. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group is curious about the Minister's response to the questions raised and the comments made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u134	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u135	On that last point, on the civil fora, I also have some criticism of Mr Van Ballekom. I agree with him that with regard to the results, you cannot go blind on that. Does he agree with me that informing the general public, not so much the collection of ideas through civil fora, but informing the general public about what Europe means and what the Dutch contribution is, is of great importance to at least maintain the public's support?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u136	That is absolutely essential. There is an incredible amount of information available. There's a lot more public than most people imagine. But I can't force anyone to take that information, although I would advise everyone to do so. You have to have a certain masochistic impact, like I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u137	That is why I did not speak of information, because there is a lot of information, but of information. This is an activity where you bring the available information to large parts of the population, so that they know what is going on in Europe, Europe, which is so important for everyone. Does Mr Van Ballekom agree with me that this activity should be stepped up?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u138	I agree with you too, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u139	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber? That's the case. We'll wait until the chair is placed. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the Members of your Chamber for the breadth and depth of the issues that are at the heart of or touch on what we are talking about today, namely the General European Political Reviews. Perhaps I could also say to Members through you that I consider it a great privilege to exchange views here on this large and broad subject. As almost all Members have said, we do so in an extremely loaded time. Almost all of us, I think Mr Van Rooijen is the exception from after the Second World War, but we all realize that the era we entered at the end of February seems very difficult to relate to everything we have experienced since the Second World War. I could also hear the emotion in his voice with Mr Van Rooijen, but I think we all share it. There is something really going on in Europe. In addition, I do not want to take anything away from all the geopolitical trammel we have seen since 1945, of course. But what we now see in the military sense in Europe has been without precedent in many respects since 1945. This has all kinds of repercussions for the European Union and, of course, for the Netherlands. The attack on Ukraine is not only an attack on Ukraine, but also an attack on the values that the Netherlands and Europe stand for. I'm sure of it. It is an attack on the rule of law, on sovereignty, on the borders of other countries, on human rights. That is why it is so relevant to let us know exactly what we think about it and that we are trying to help Ukraine in all possible ways in the fight that is currently under way. Mr. Chairman. Of course, there's a lot more. That is sometimes an extension, like the rule of law. It has always been important, but is actually independent of the debate on geopolitics. That came through in the debate. I will answer all these questions as best I can. I have to say that I didn't tarf it exactly, but if I had, I would have come up with a few hundred questions. So I'm gonna try to cluster things a little bit. I hope the members will forgive me for that. I know that you always insist that I kick off saying in what order I intend to deal with the various subjects. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I would have thought as follows. I'll start with Ukraine. In it, I take the sanctions, the Dutch Accountability, the weapons and everything that has to do with them. Then I'll close that block. That brings me to block two, namely everything that has to do with enlargement. I am referring to Ukraine, but more questions have been asked about enlargement. That's the second block. In the third block, I deal extensively with geopolitics in general. Fourthly, the Conference on Europe will follow. A lot of questions have been asked about that. The fifth is the rule of law. As a sixth, there will be a large-scale block of other issues, including the Council of Europe, migration, the SGP and a number of other important issues. I'll make a manly attempt to maintain that structure. If I stray from the right path, I know how you'll react to that. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with Ukraine. I have just briefly outlined how hard what is going on there should be pressing on what we have to do. It is my belief that there is no misunderstanding about this in this house either. I have therefore just briefly referred to it, and I would like to say a little more about it in the first place: it is of the utmost importance that we, as the European Union, but also as the Netherlands, stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine and provide arms. That is what is most needed at the moment. Moreover, these weapons are essential if you want to return to the negotiating table in acceptable circumstances. That is what we are doing in the field of humanitarian aid. That is what we are doing in the area of economic aid. We do this by receiving refugees in the Netherlands. We do that by helping diplomatically, as good and as angry as that goes in those very difficult circumstances. We are doing this by contributing to accountability at this stage, because ultimately those responsible for this will also have to answer for it. As far as we're concerned, we need a judge. So we are also trying to contribute to this in very complicated circumstances. Mr. Chairman. There are many questions on this subject, which I will answer as best I can. I shall begin with Mr Van Apeldoorn's question. He asked how we're gonna make sure we don't end up in a cold war for decades. As far as I am concerned, it starts with the fact that we have to keep two things in mind in the war that is now going on. First of all, there is the continued helping of Ukraine. That's very important, morally as well. I just listed the axes we're trying to get through. The second is a bit out of the debate, but I have said it regularly at the beginning of the war. By the way, I wasn't the only one in that. It is also extremely important that we do not end up in an escalation of the war by the wrong choices or an accident with all kinds of risks that could lead to a third world war. That has disappeared a little from the debate, but it is important to continue to do so. That was, as far as I am concerned, a justified argument not to respond, for example, to the request for setting up a no-fly zone. If you did, it would have all kinds of repercussions. Then you're not just going to force planes to land or shoot them out of the sky in Ukraine if necessary. No, then you'll also go after the communication centers on which those planes depend. They are not necessarily in Ukraine. That's what I wanted to say about a wider, hotter conflict. As far as the prevention of a cold war is concerned, I think we should be realistic about who is the aggressor here. It does not apply here: where two have a conflict, there are two faults. This is a war of aggression, without any reasonable reason initiated by Russia after months of building troops there at the border. Russia is fully responsible for this war. This also means that not only during this period, but also after this period, we cannot simply go to the order of the day. Then billions of dollars of damage has been done in Ukraine and thousands or tens of thousands have been killed by the military, but also by the civilian population. Then there are probably also far beyond the places I have visited on a large scale the most terrible war crimes committed. So we can't move on to the order of the day. Does that mean we'll automatically end up in a new cold war? No, not necessarily. However, I would like to stress that, in my view, we are once again entering a phase in which the values that we believe should apply universally are under great pressure, not only from Russia but also from other actors. In many ways, we will have to fight again the automatic acceptance of these values, because there is talk of human rights, of the sovereignty of countries and of many of the things we considered universal. You undoubtedly know the saying 'history knows no definition Victories' and that is unfortunately also the case. In order to protect these values, we will have to enter into dialogue with the 141 countries which have expressed their disapproval of the war in the United Nations, but also with the 35 who have abstained. My assessment is that, not only with Russia, but also with a number of other countries, we are facing a longer stage in which we do not automatically agree on the automation of human rights, democracy, peace and security, and so on. It is a somewhat longer answer, but I would have said otherwise in my introduction, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u141	Thank you for this longer answer, which in itself raises many questions. Back to that point of preventing another cold war. I am also pleased that the Minister has said that we must remain aware of the danger of escalating to an even greater war, a third world war, because that has gone a little too far in this discussion. I fully agree with the Minister that the aggressor here is clearly Russia, let that also be clear. I also asked how to prevent a cold war in the context of thinking about relations with Russia in the longer term, because we cannot think Russia away from the map. I spoke about an inclusive, pan-European security architecture, which was considered after the last Cold War. It is quite clear that it is very difficult now, because we are not going to talk to Putin about that. Russia is trying to impose its own will on other countries in an imperialist way. But in the end we will also have to make it clear to Russia that if Russia wants to have a future in the international legal order, it must be discussed. In the end, this will be the only way to achieve lasting peace in Europe. I think we should think about this now and I was curious to see what the Minister has to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u142	With much of what Mr Van Apeldoorn is saying in his interruption, I very much agree. Russia is there and will remain there. It stays where it is. This means that in the long term we will also have to look together at the consequences of this. At the same time, it is essential, therefore, that I said just so strongly that we realize who started the war and who will be responsible for that war in the near future. My assessment is, and the goal of the Dutch government will be, and also of others, I think, not to give the impression that once the last shot has been fired, we can proceed to business as usual. For that so much has been destroyed and so much has happened that it will also have to be restored. What exactly that looks like, exactly what the repercussions are, is difficult to see at the moment, but it also makes me unwise to speculate on what conditions Ukraine should take place at the negotiating table, but that is not what Mr Van Apeldoorn is asking for either. That's primarily up to them. That's for them to decide. Of course, where it is possible or helpful for the European Union to support it, or for the United States to support it, and also to reflect on the future security architecture, we are naturally happy to do so. But who wasn't home to keep the peace? Who was not at home in each of the attempts to make conversations so far? That was Russia. So that makes it extremely complicated to philosophize about that right now. Because you do need a window for that, and that is not available right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u143	I immediately acknowledge that it is extremely complicated. I also mentioned in my speech that we should try to give diplomacy a chance. We can do this war... there's often talk of "we." So does the Minister. It is also a greater conflict, also from the West side, from NATO. We can't fight this war until the last Ukrainian. We will also have to look at when it is possible to reach a ceasefire and under what circumstances. Then the negotiations must begin. Italy, for example, came up with a peace plan two weeks ago, I believe. It also talks about relations with Russia in the longer term. We haven't heard so much about that since. But my question to the Minister is: what is the position of the Netherlands when it comes to the diplomatic initiatives of other countries, as this war will eventually end up being my point in the first term, and will not have a military solution, but only a political and diplomatic solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u144	Every war comes to an end. Then there's a truce and a truce, and eventually you hope to end up in a situation of peace. So in itself, of course, that's quite right. The question is, in particular, how we help Ukraine to reach the negotiating table in the best possible circumstances. The hard reality is that we help them best by ensuring that they are in the best possible position on the battlefield. In addition, we have to keep two things in mind every time. One: Russia has begun this war. And two: Russia, I know that from the inside room too, and we all know that through the newspaper in all those conversations that were initially grafted in, zero point zero and no movement was made. So, of course, those conversations were stopped there at some point. You have to add that I understand very well that those from the Ukrainian side, who literally hear from the first hand of their own people about what is happening to her in the area of murder and rape, and so on, will change their minds twice before they are allowed to lend themselves to some sort of show negotiation. So where we can support Ukraine, we will, but it really has to go under the conditions that are acceptable to them. In the end, it is up to them to make that very complicated assessment of how long it is militaryly appropriate to continue fighting, what that balance looks like, even in the military sense, and what it means for one's own lives. I would also find it really inappropriate if the Netherlands or others wanted to say all kinds of things about that and square public, but it does mean, and it must continue to mean, that we are taking everything out of the box. Moreover, the Netherlands is doing more than its fair share, but I will come to that later with support through weapons, accountability and sanctions. I didn't mention that, but that is also an important topic and the Netherlands is at the front to push things forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u145	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u146	Yeah, finally. I agree with the Minister that it is ultimately up to the Ukrainians to decide under what conditions they intend to negotiate and where these negotiations should lead. However, I believe that President Zelensky has also said in so many words: we will not be able to continue fighting until, for example, all Russians from Crimea have disappeared, because that price may be too high. The Minister keeps saying that we must supply arms to Ukraine so that they are strong at the negotiating table. My question was actually another, namely: what can the Netherlands do along the diplomatic front? My colleague Karimi has also asked questions about this. I understand that the situation is extremely difficult, but initiatives have been taken, for example by the Italian Government. We can also hope that this war does not continue for months or years. Then there is the question: under what conditions is there at some point a prospect of a diplomatic solution and what role can the Dutch Government play in this, including with regard to other European partners who have already tried to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u147	Of course there is frequent contact in the interior room between the Prime Minister, myself and our Ukrainian colleagues. I think we have an extremely good understanding of what is helpful at what stage. Where we see opportunities to talk about this with allies, for example, we do so of course. Well, in my view, that's what we do most effectively in the inner room. My observation is that not only Russia is responsible for all the misery that has been caused, but also that Russia has not made any reasonable move in any way in all the negotiations that have taken place in Turkey and Belarus and that have taken place through other ways. There hasn't been any movement in it. What that tells me is that it is apparently more attractive for Russia to continue fighting at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u148	I hear the Minister say that every war comes to an end at some point. Now, of course, we do not hope that it will be an eighty-year war, because we have experience of that ourselves, and that is a very long time. But seriously now. It must of course end, but this morning, in the first term of the Chamber, the term'stop-fire' was also mentioned. Do I understand correctly from the Minister that he says that we are doing all we can to bring this war to an end soon, but we are not calling for a cease-fire to Ukraine, because that is up to Ukraine itself to decide, but we are ensuring that they can get to the negotiating table as well as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u149	What I find very vulnerable to call for Ukraine to come to a ceasefire is that it would de facto sanction military progress such as Russia. And Russia has nothing to do on every inch of Ukrainian territory, not on what was taken in 2014 or on what was taken recently. So that's why I'm so explicit about it, and that's why I would find it really unfortunate if we were to speculate on what forms a file might take. I think it is up to Ukraine to determine that, because Ukrainians pay an extremely high price. And it was, is and remains my belief that we can best help them by ensuring that every day that that war lasts longer, especially on the Russian side, is felt. How do we concretely implement this? Through military support and sanctions. These are the two means we have to contribute most effectively to the best possible position of Kiev.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u150	I understand that now calls for a ceasefire could be very much to the detriment of Ukraine. We can understand that. We have already discussed this in the first period. We will come to the arms supplies in a moment, but in addition, at diplomatic level, perhaps you can try to influence the matter in such a way that, in the end, that war does not last longer than... "Need" is a strange word in this context, but you want that war to last as long as possible. Perhaps, without a call for a ceasefire, you can do so through diplomatic channels.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u151	Yeah, but that's based on the premise that there would be a listening ear for that kind of message. My observation is that all attempts by actors who weigh considerably more heavily in diplomatic traffic than the Netherlands so far have not led to any visible willingness of Moscow to see how the war can end. That is also part of the reality in which we find ourselves. Of course, there is good and much contact with those who, as far as I am concerned, have played or played a positive role in this, or who have at least tried to keep in touch with both parties as well and as angry as that goes. The Israelis tried at some point. The Turks have tried that for a longer period. I have had good contact with both colleagues. But of course it begins with the willingness on the Russian side to stop that war. I really think that, knowing that the best possible position on the battlefield translates into the best possible position at the negotiating table, we should focus our attention on helping Ukraine in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u152	Mr Koole, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u153	I can totally follow that. But earlier, the Minister also said that about 40 countries in the United Nations are neutral. Shouldn't the diplomatic efforts of the Netherlands and, above all, of the European Union also be aimed at trying to isolate Russia from that side? Then maybe they're more inclined to listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u154	Quite frankly, I think that you need to enter into the dialogue between the soft underbelly of the 141, so to speak, and the 35 in particular, in order to ensure that as many of those countries as possible eventually agree with the perspective of human rights, democracy, freedom, security, stability and sovereignty as we have. Mr Van Apeldoorn, quite rightly, asked for the Cold War. One of the lessons of the Cold War was, of course, that many countries that did not associate themselves often blamed the West for opportunism, hypocrisy and short-term thinking. Sometimes that was wrong, but sometimes it was right. Active engagement with that group of countries is, in my opinion, very important if, like me, you believe that the coming years and possibly even the coming decades are really about whether, for example, you consider those values around women to be absolute or whether you are much more relativistic in them, such as Russia but also China and others are obvious. In the short term, I am also really at home for what Mr Koole is asking, but it is really about the willingness in Moscow. There has so far been very little to say not to say: nothing attracted to anyone who finds or does or says anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u155	In the first place, I fully endorse what the Minister says about the complexity and complexity of the situation we are in. It is also right to say that Ukraine has the right to self-defense and that Ukraine is supported in doing so. In addition, the war, as I argued this morning, has a far greater impact. We are talking, for example, about a possible famine, which, as a result of this war, is being intensified in parts of the world. In that sense, we are also party to it. So the question is: how can we talk to Ukraine? I understand that the Minister is constantly doing so in order to clarify the moment when they are ready to enter the conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u156	Of course, we have that conversation in the inner room. Sometimes they say something about that in public. But I am aware, as you will notice, I think, of speculating carefully. Not because I think that what we are discussing here affects diplomacy far and wide, but the last thing I want is that, because of unfortunate comments from my side, others involved in the conflict might think that the Netherlands, perhaps the EU or anyone else, actually sees space that Ukrainians do not see. It is up to Ukraine to determine that. In general, I agree with anyone who says that we should not throw away the diplomatic trail. That's where everyone at that great ministry of mine is set up. Everyone has done their job in this way not only to serve the Dutch interest, but also to defend human rights and all the other things that we regard as essentialia. But in this particular case, it has so far produced very little results. It's only Moscow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u157	I understand this attitude, but I have one example. We know that both the Russians and the Ukrainians are members of the OSCE, but I do not think that platform is being used at the moment. The country that currently has the Presidency, Poland, has decided that we should not allow it to be business as usual in any way. Agreed, that is not the case. Yet you should try to use such a platform somewhat. What is the Dutch government's commitment there?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u158	I'm at home for every platform on its own. But we have all read for over 100 days about attempts by the French President, the German Chancellor, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the President of the European Commission and many others who have made serious efforts to engage with Moscow. I very much appreciate that they are trying to do so, because that is a bit in the category 'not shot is always wrong'. But we also see what that has led to so far. Again, I think it's good that they're trying, because you'd like to end the war, but Putin hasn't stopped the most horrible shelling, hasn't stopped committing and allowing war crimes and so on. That's just the bitter reality we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u159	I understand that. I hope the Minister will also see that we are not opposed to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u160	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u161	Well, that's for sure. But the point is that the road of escalation will never deliver the solution. I think Putin is now thinking more of a war of several years than of a war of months. So the question is to constantly look for ways to move Russia to choose a different position, however difficult that may be. My question on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is: what is the government's commitment to finding these roads, however difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u162	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u163	The fact that we are open in our own right to any acceptable outcome; whether it is the OSCE, the Council of Europe, we are going to talk about it in such a way; of course, there has also been the necessary bilateral, with the help of the Americans or a tripartite consultation, we are of course open to any way in our own right. But it is essential to realise that until now, you have to realise that Putin's word has been extremely little worth at every stage behind us. He has proved completely unreliable towards Ukraine, but also towards others. He told me for months that those soldiers were there to, well, why not come to war anyway. That would be out of the question. So there's a long history of wordbreaking. That means that you have to look at every type of consultation with at least healthy scepticism. Moreover, the reality of the past few months has also been that people were sometimes available for consultation for the form at all, but then I know that from the inside, and to some extent we know that by now, the newspaper was either stonewalling or demanding such unreasonable things that, understandably, it did not lead to any enthusiasm on the Ukrainian side of the negotiating table. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u164	For our part, too, a great deal of understanding of the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Nor does our group think it is a question of 'where two fights have two blames'. There is clearly an aggressor here and a country that defends itself and deserves our support. In that context, I have a question for the Minister. On Thursday, a delegation from the Upper Chamber met Mr Stefanchuk, President of the Rada, the Ukrainian Parliament. Since we have that meeting in two days' time, perhaps the Minister has some valuable advice for us for that meeting with the President of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u165	The fact that in half an hour's debate we will be able to bend state law so 180 degrees that I do not take good advice from Parliament, but I am invited to do the opposite, I would not have been able to foresee. I am convinced, also listening to the sensible contributions made to the debate so far, that the First Chamber is more than sufficiently equipped to do so itself. But if one were to be curious about the position of the government, that is how I understood Mr Otten, and I very much appreciate that, it will be along the lines I have just outlined and the things I will add to it in the first block on arms, sanctions and humanitarian aid. Without me going to sum it all up now, those would be my thoughts in the direction of that visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u166	No, of course we are dealing with our own agenda; there is no misunderstanding about that. But, of course, the Minister has an information origin in relation to the Upper House. At least, I hope so. Hence the question. Should the Minister remember anything else, of course we would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u167	That's very much appreciated. Let me try to add a number of other things, also in response to the questions and without putting 'advisory:' above them, Mr Otten and others have at least an idea of which direction the cabinet's thoughts go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u168	Then may I interrupt you, Minister, for an order proposal? I propose that the Minister make his story by block and keep the interruptions until the end of the block, because if we continue at this rate, the Minister must be in Turkey already. I know that the Minister must go to Turkey tomorrow morning while we are still debating.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u169	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u170	Can the MPs agree to that? Yeah? Then we'll do the interruptions at the end of the block. Will you always report, Minister, when you arrive at the end of a block? Otherwise there will be no more interruption at all, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u171	Yeah, sure. I used the interruptions to at least answer Mrs Karimi's questions about ending the war, and her question as to what ideas the government and the EU have in this regard. I would like to say in her direction that where it is about trial, we, the Netherlands, are well on the path of the ICC's investigation. That is also why we have sent Dutch people there, partly as the redemption of the French gendarmerie, to really look for what is going on. Of course, there is also support from the Netherlands for the EU rail network. I can tell you that I myself have heard of women's representatives of organizations who have compassion on women who experience those horrors in person, that there is every reason to help in this area. Mr Van Apeldoorn's question on how to proceed, I think we have clarified it further together through the interrupting microphone. Mr Koole asked whether we should not have acted more quickly on arms supplies. I find that an interesting question, because that is a question that has actually been asked relatively little. My impression is that if the Netherlands were to make deliveries quite quickly, even after the explicit demand for heavy weapons, at least considerably faster than we might have anticipated, if you had asked us so to speak on 1 January. I cannot talk about all the categories in detail, but if you look at the last things that we have also publicly shared about the size and the amounts, then you can see that in the EU context we are really doing significantly more about our fair share. Our approach is to keep looking at what Ukraine wants and to what extent we can meet it. Grosso mode we then walk three paths. The first path: the things that we can do ourselves and which we literally take out of our depots. The second path: the things we can do together. See the example that has been extensively in the media about the howitzers, which we have delivered together with Germany. The third path: the option to buy things we don't have ourselves for Ukraine. You can see that at a time. Ms Stienen asked what the EU could do for Ukraine in the short term. I think I just gave that list. That is really extremely broad and fortunately it is happening extremely widely. Mrs Stienen also asked what else we should have done in the relationship with Russia. That is a very good question, which you have been able to debate for a few days. But I'd like to get one thing out. When I reflect on what the Netherlands, the European Union and others have done since 2014, it is immediately obvious how lukewarm the reaction was in 2014. That partly explains how sharp the reaction is right now. I have said: democracy I have answered Mrs Stienen's question about the commitment to Russia. The same goes for her question: to what extent to fight? Mrs Stienen then asked about Mr Blok's recommendations. In particular, she asked what should be done better in the area of EU cooperation. I should check it out, because I don't know if the letter that went to the Lower House went to the Upper Chamber. Mrs Stienen doesn't know it either, so at least she won't be permanently impressed. I'll make sure that letter lands here too, because that's what it's written in. Let me take one thing out, which I find a little uncomfortable myself. Before, for example, sanctioned Russians get on the list, this is widely shared with all kinds of capitals. Then there are a few hundred, a thousand or perhaps ten thousand people across the Union who know who will be on such a list. This is then shared on a Friday or a Saturday, and on Monday it is only knocked in by the banks. This means that there is virtually no other way to do it. I am talking about block after block that some of those who should have been subject to the sanctions used the weekend to channel money away. It sounds very practical, but such matters are, as far as I am concerned, not so much for the Netherlands itself but for the European Union to improve. I took one thing out of it because I think it is such an exemplary example of what we, all online banking, can very well imagine. Then Mrs Stienen asked about the gender component. I was just telling you about those horrible stories about rape. Mrs Stienen was right to talk about women and also men, but there are other things you are really speechless about. Booby traps on children's toys; that category. That only makes me more convinced that we need to contribute to justice there. If several Members have asked the same question, I have not always mentioned all the speakers when replying to that question. I'm sorry about that. I know that this is sometimes sensitive, but I believe that I have answered all the questions in the Ukraine category. I say immediately that virtually everyone, Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Van Rooijen indirectly, we have seen Mr Otten, Mrs Nanninga, Mr Van Dijk, referring to this. But in my view, I have answered the questions about Ukraine. That's where the first block is finished. I am doing the enlargement of Ukraine in the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u172	Enlargement is thus coming into the second block. Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u173	I would like to come back to something the Minister said in his first block, namely that, in the context of this war, we must realise that human rights are universal. I tasted, at least in his speech, that we have sometimes done a little relative about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u174	We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u175	No, we do not, but that others have done so in a relativistic way, or that there is a possibility of discussing how universal these human rights actually are and whether you can put that into perspective. I fully support the Minister's statement that human rights are universal. But that also means that we must condemn them equally strongly everywhere in the world, wherever these human rights violations are taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u176	They're universal. There is no misunderstanding as far as I am concerned. At the same time, you have to ask yourself in every situation, even as a diplomat, what is effective at what time. We ourselves have a tendency as the Netherlands to say something about things that we don't like. I've sometimes blamed myself for that and ask us less what the effect of that is if you really want to change them. One of the things that the Netherlands and the EU need to do in my opinion is: what can you do effectively to help civil society and civil society organisations under pressure in countries? That is what is needed in general terms. The second is that I am truly convinced that we have thought for too long that it was a matter of further maturity of countries such as Russia and China until they accepted our view of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. The bitter intermediate conclusion is that that is simply not true. In a lot of countries there is a completely different view of things that we regard as things that should be available to all citizens. That is the reality. The art is to make sure that in the twenty-first century we do allow those values to be guiding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u177	I agree with the Minister that you always have to ask yourself on a case-by-case basis whether something is effective and under what circumstances and in what way it is effective to denounce human rights violations. He's talking about Russia and China now, but my point is another. We must avoid double standards. In February of this year, the European Union rolled out the red carpet for Al-Sisi, the leader of Egypt. Human Rights Watch said: please do not do so, because there is an epidemic of disappearances and rapes in Egypt. What is happening in that dictatorship borders on crimes against humanity. At present, relations with Saudi Arabia are being re-raised as part of the fight against Russia. My point is that effectiveness is one thing, but we must not use double standards, otherwise we will end up facing autocracy like Russia and China only weaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u178	I agree. I have not yet made a bilateral visit and I have not yet spoken to a colleague, not only in the lyrics, but in which it was not always the subject of discussion. We have to realise that every time, where there is a reason, you have to make that a subject of dialogue. At the same time, if your goal is effectiveness and something to do for the people in those countries, you have to ask yourself what the time, the place and the way to convey that message is. I think it is only very good that we are concerned not only in parliament, but also in the Netherlands, about human rights violations in other places. But that doesn't mean that I don't know what the case is, because I don't know enough about it, so I'm abstracting what Mr Van Apeldoorn just asked me to say that it's always the best way to put the megaphone on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u179	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u180	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister agrees with me that we should not have double standards. I'm gonna hold him to that, too. I would like to return to human rights violations in Russia. I also asked for this in my first term, in the Ukraine block. It is perhaps also important that, from the Netherlands and the European Union, we give as much support as possible to opposition groups and peace movements in Russia that are affected by Putin's decision to wage that war and suffer from its own oppression. Perhaps the Minister could comment briefly on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u181	No, except I agree with that very much. It's very complicated. I have great admiration for the people who are going to demonstrate there and who are going to resist in a form. That is often dangerous, even for the people around them. The Netherlands and others in Europe are doing so well and so evil, but it is a complicated path, dotted with thorns and thistles.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u182	I am glad that human rights are universal. That's basically saying the Earth is round. I've been away from the State Department for a while, so it could be that it's all changed. But I can remember a report by Human Rights Watch, I think of 2011, 2012, which said that the major human rights criminals always send their president or their prime minister when it comes to human rights and the countries that support human rights defenders usually send their second or perhaps first secretary. I can't wait to see what's going on. If the Minister visits, I hear he's going to Turkey tomorrow. Is he having a conversation with civil society people right away, or is that on day three? I know from my own experience that it was usually cancelled because the program was too full. So the priority at the highest level in the Netherlands for: human rights are universal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u183	I can only reflect on what I've done in the last few months. I have recently been a sensitive context in Israel and the Palestinian territories. There I went through all sides of the coin with all the partners, including my two colleagues, but also with the Prime Minister on the Palestinian side. I also spoke to human rights representatives there. The same was true when I was in Ukraine before the war. There, too, we felt it was important to talk to civil society. I can only speak for myself, but I am convinced that the Prime Minister too often has a programme that has been put together along these lines. To reassure you: these visits usually last only one day, so it must all be done on that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u184	Finally. I hope that this good start will also be made within the EU. As we have said in our contribution: for many people outside Europe in civil society, the European Union, and the representation of the European Union, has often been a bright spot in their dark days, sometimes spent in horrible prisons.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u185	Yeah, I agree. My tentacles are not so far apart that I can give all those colleagues in the European Union speaking lines, but I very much agree with them. By the way, the European Union itself, but also when I am in contact with my colleagues from Sweden, Germany, France, in fact all countries, also supports how important it is. Mr President, the enlargement block. I am going to say some general things about it, but also specifically about Ukraine. It is very important to reiterate how much everyone is now aware that Ukraine is part of the European family. I have just indicated the enormous importance that Europe has felt that we should remain behind Ukraine as one woman or one man. As a Dutch cabinet, we have said that, precisely because there are very different views in different capitals, it is wise that the Commission should come up with a view here. Why? Because one thing you want to weigh in on is that you want to promise a friend or a girlfriend in agony at all. That's the emotion, I think, that many feel. The other side is that we also know how complicated that trajectory, even towards a candidate status, has been in the past with a lot of countries, regardless of what comes next. Thirdly, there are very different views in many capitals. That is also a reality that we have to unite with. I would also like to say this once more here: you have the trajectory towards candidate status, but the work actually starts. You will then have to comply with all those elements of the acquis. That means bringing the economy, the rule of law and so on to such a level that you can join the Union. Given this complexity, I think it is very sensible that the Heads of Government have said: Commission, come up with a sensible proposal, which also reflects the geopolitical reality in Ukraine. I and the Prime Minister have always said that we will then look openly at the Commission's proposal. That proposal is expected in the course of this month. Then, in the short term, we will, of course, come up with a cabinet position and discuss this with the House of Representatives. I have answered Mrs Karimi's question. I would like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that, by implication, this does not mean relaxing the conditions for accession. There are many differences in the Union, but one of the things people seem to agree on is that the bar for real accession should not be lowered, because it would undermine the strength of the European Union for all citizens in the Union. As far as I'm concerned, you really shouldn't do that. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole had a very fair question about wider enlargement. I know he knows this file well. He will see what I see, namely that different countries are also at very different stages. Turkey has not passed in this context, but it has been a candidate country for many years. Other countries are not candidates, but have already made progress in many areas. Other countries, such as northern Macedonia, are in the complicated situation where one country, Bulgaria, is actually blocking the start of accession negotiations. I find that unfortunate. I'd like to get rid of that bump, but we're not there yet. And then there is the complex situation in Serbia... er... Bosnia and Herzegovina. This means that we always have to look at what is reasonable on a case-by-case basis. It is, of course, an extra complex issue because of the question that is now on the table about Ukraine. From all these countries, the Union's actions are being examined with suspicion and whether that is fair to them. There, too, the shirt is of course closer than the skirt, which I understand very much. Mrs Oomen asked what the Union could do in terms of enlargement. That's a very good question anyway. Mrs Oomen knows better than anyone that the European Union has previously stated that each country may become a member on its own territory. I am convinced that the Union's capacity is to a large extent determined by our ability to keep that bar at the level we now have, hence my response to Van Apeldoorn. I think it would be fundamentally wrong to lower the bar for a country to join the Union. I think you can at most see if your countries can help even better in the lead, or else you're gonna run the project from the inside out. I think that would be unwise. Mrs Oomen asked me how I looked at the French President's idea of creating a multi-stage structure, not'speeds', but'stages'. I think the idea that you are again trying to relate to the geopolitical reality in Europe in itself is sensible. I think it is wise for him to recognise that countries are at different stages and may need different relations with Europe. I think you should also realize that each of those countries, at least each of those that I have spoken to so far, says: "In the end, we only want one thing: the full monty. We just want to be a member. And if there are different flavors, then that might be something for the other countries." So that is also part of the current reality. Mrs Oomen also asked about Moldova, a country with an admirable President; I really must say that. It is making every effort not only to reduce Russia's dependence, but also to combat corruption internally and to strengthen the economy and the position of its inhabitants, who are in a very difficult situation. The Commission will first have to look into how this process continues. It is a country which I think should be helped by the European Union, because it is also in a very complex situation in terms of energy compared to Russia. It is the poorest country in Europe, but now it has a government that really wants to go ahead with many of the things that we think are important. I believe that Mrs Oomen, as well as others, asked about Bosnia. I am not going to tell her anything new if I say the following: only if fundamental constitutional reforms have taken place there can there be enlargement. What we continue to do, including in the case of Bosnia, is to point to'strong, fair and involved'. That determines our attitude. As good and as angry as it gets, we keep talking. But, of course, it's not going to be easy. And I haven't talked about Serbia yet. So much for enlargement. Look at this! I see everyone at the interrupting microphone. That is the advantage of this new formula, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u186	I understand from the Minister that the issue of granting Ukraine an application status is awaiting the European Commission first, and that the Dutch Government will then take a position on this. Does this rule out the possibility of granting such an application status? Or is that really the subject of a debate to be held on the basis of the Commission's proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u187	I have said this deliberately every time, because before you know it, you come into a debate about whether you always exclude them from becoming members or whether in all cases the gate is always open. There are, of course, different views on this, also of a domestic political nature. On the contrary, I think it is wise not to speculate too much about it, but simply to do what we have to do. This means that the Commission comes first with a piece. Then I think we should look at it in substance, but open, no matter what it is. The Commission has then given it a lot of thought. The Commission has also made the comparison with other countries. The Commission has looked into the geopolitical situation. So I think you should take that piece seriously, look at it openly and then come up with an assessment. Then, of course, it is primarily up to the House of Representatives to enter into dialogue with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u188	Sure. It is not, of course, a question of becoming a member of the European Union. It's about awarding an application status.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u189	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u190	I understand that that is not excluded. The second thing I mentioned in my speech was that the Minister said something about the countries of the Western Balkans, for example North Macedonia and Albania. Bulgaria's on the fritz. However, especially in the context of Russian and Chinese influence in that part of Europe, it is of course very important for security in Europe that those countries that do meet the requirements be admitted as soon as possible. Then it can't be that one country keeps obstructing it. Isn't that an argument that could put a little more pressure on it at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u191	Mr Koole and I very much agree on North Macedonia and Albania. In this case it is specifically about North Macedonia, but those two are of course linked earlier. This is also being discussed intensively with Bulgaria, because that is also about fairness: what is fair? I understand very well that the Greeks are sensitive to the whole concept of Macedonia, also given the history that goes back to Alexander the Great, or actually his father, Philip II. So we have asked of today's North Macedonia to change the name and with it also the constitution. That's a big deal. They all did. At the eleventh hour, a Member State then said that we still have an issue. It's been going on for some time now. We are now trying to contribute to a solution, so that Bulgaria can also agree with this request. That is what our efforts are aimed at. Maybe one more word. That is in line with Mr Koole's question. He rightly says: others will also see if they can take geopolitical positions there. That is, of course, one of the reasons why we, as the Union, have engaged so actively in dialogue with Serbia in recent years. I must say that it is then disappointing that despite all these efforts... tens of millions have gone from the European Union. There's been a lot of attention going on. Apart from what you find there on matters such as the rule of law, it is disappointing to see what conclusions have been drawn there on sanctions and on statements about what Russia is doing there. Let me put it carefully: I would have liked to have seen that more in line with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u192	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u193	I agree with the Minister on this point. Well, that's a shame, isn't it? The argument that a war has now broken out, that is to say, the security situation makes it more urgent that the countries that are there and are there are also included in the European Union, I think, is an argument that should apply, but unfortunately not all countries are convinced of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u194	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u195	I felt that the Minister was clear about how to deal with Ukraine's candidate status. I can understand that, but can the Minister also understand the comments or opinions of President Zelensky and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine that granting candidate status would be a heavy signal... The word'signal' has really been used; let me leave out the word 'heavy'. Does the Minister also understand that this would be a signal to strengthen the country in the fight for freedom and independence against Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u196	Symbols are important. We sometimes tend to say in the Netherlands: it is only symbolic. We don't usually mean that in a positive way. But symbols are important. I am going to discuss feminist foreign policy with Mrs Stienen in detail. Mr Koole also said a number of things that I can imagine. At the same time, I think we recognize that symbols have a power. So I understand very well that they perceive that so. With both of them I also talked about this intimately, especially with Kooleba, but also with Zelensky. That is one of the elements that the Union will have to take into account. There are also other arguments, which we have partly discussed here. You're gonna have to take that into account, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u197	What if Serbia didn't? is once a member. We already know that that country has had a very close relationship with Russia for some time now. That is also true for the coming period, both during and after Putin, we fear. We must be very careful with the further talks on Serbia. I will not make the comparison with Hungary, because it does not go far enough. In this case: bend before you begin. There's no turning back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u198	No, that's totally right in itself. I have just put it carefully, but I did not say for nothing that I find it disappointing that they did not stay closer to the European sound in this case, which is morally so much to be said about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u199	This is about the open-mindedness with which the cabinet is going to look at the proposal that the European Commission is coming up with. On the one hand, 'we look at that with an open eye' comes a bit like 'we are going to say yes to that for sure'. That's how it looks to me. Maybe I'm looking at it the wrong way, but that's what I hear in it. I wonder: what exact requirements should this proposal meet? There will have been some discussion about what you say: this and these aspects must be taken into account in Ukraine's candidacy. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u200	I've just appointed some of those elements. Then it's about looking open. I would be surprised if you, as a Dutch cabinet, so explicitly refer to the Commission's work, but say in advance: yes, but we are not going to do half of those things anyway. That would raise the question at the Chamber immediately: why do you wait for it? Does it mean that we are always going to take over? No, because that would reduce us to some kind of pass-through hatch. Then we would say to the House of Representatives: what do you think? I think it is exactly the right balance to look at it with an open eye. The emphasis is on "open" but also on "look." So we must also weigh that in terms of content. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u201	You say: I have appointed the elements. But perhaps you can say again which elements you then take with you in that weighing and in that open look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u202	Van Rooijen rightly mentioned the point of war and what this potential means for Ukraine. There is, of course, the geopolitical situation. There is the question of what impact this has on countries that are already on that path, but also on countries such as Moldova. It has potentially all kinds of repercussions for those who are worried about how easily you actually get that candidate status. Others will say: Hoekstra says that nothing will be taken away from the bar of real membership, but is it? Those are also things you'll have to consider. You have the question of what kind of criteria typically apply when a country was granted candidate status. Then you find that that is very uneven, but that there is also a red line to draw in. Some will say: it is only a question of whether Ukraine is already there. That whole palette of me doing it now with seven-mile boots we have to discuss with each other in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u203	I fully understand that the Minister is saying, with regard to possible accession to Ukraine, that we are going to give an opinion when the European Commission comes forward with an opinion, and that will not take too long. I also understand that if Ukraine were to become a candidate, there would not be any acceleration period at the time, but the Copenhagen criteria would simply be looked at and met. I guess I got that right. Then there is the second point I would like to make. I said that a number of other countries would like to join alongside Ukraine. I would like to ask the Minister: what do you think about the way in which he is treated? I would add that a number of entrants are already in the waiting room at the moment. If you are negotiating with them and are moving towards membership, you must first of all have a deepening of the treaties at that time, because it is impossible to make decisions with so many new countries. I haven't heard anything about that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u204	I agree with the latter, about the decision-making process, but I do not know whether the Commission will come forward with an immediate opinion on this. I suspect that people will say something about the wider embedding, given countries that either have candidate status or crave it. On that first point, I very much agree with Mrs Oomen. You need to think about the Union's ability to act. That is exactly where the Dutch cabinet comes from about not wanting to have a veto on geopolitical matters anymore. On the one hand, it is very nice that we consider all 27 to be completely equal in a number of respects. But in some respects it is also special that when representatives of perhaps 500 million Europeans would say: turn left, there are countries that may represent a few hundred thousand Europeans, who could say 'we are not in' and then the whole party is off. That inconvenience and therefore lack of ability to act, we have to do something with it. This is also something that the Netherlands will bring forward in the coming years. I merely expect that this point will not be resolved in this opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u205	Not even when discussing the outcome of the conference on the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u206	Yes, but I had understood Mrs Oomen's question in such a way that my expectation is that the Commission will address this point in the opinion on Ukraine. I think she is absolutely right that it will certainly be given a place in the discussions that will undoubtedly follow at the conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u207	I'd like to return to Ukraine's candidacy. The Minister gives a procedural answer: the Commission is going to work on it, and we are going to look at it with an open eye. Can the Minister comment on what he himself says that different views are being expressed in different capitals? This means that several Member States already have a position. The Netherlands also has a position, at least in the imagery, namely against. Can the Minister say something about how the substance of this debate is being held between the Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u208	Yeah, but then I'm gonna talk a little bit about the paper. We can all read what Member States have said about it, or what parties in Member States have said about it. I don't know if that has a lot of added value. I find the conclusion that we have drawn, to take very seriously what the Commission comes up with and then to proceed to judgment, a sensible and purely substantive approach. Despite all the temptations that might come along, I'd like to stick to that recipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u209	My question was not based on what I read in the newspapers, as I read it, but my question was based on what the Minister himself said a few minutes ago, namely that there are different views in different capitals. Then I think: okay, so our Foreign Minister is aware of how this is being considered in different capitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u210	Yeah, of course, but we all are, I guess. We are all aware that there are countries that say it can happen tomorrow. There are also countries that have shown great hesitation. There are also countries that are still in another category and are wondering what a candidate for membership also means to themselves in a financial sense. The shirt is closer than the skirt. There are countries that are wondering whether candidate membership means additional funds and whether this may have consequences for the funds they receive. Moreover, in many countries there is still some thought about a definitive position, where everyone realises that what the Commission is bringing will be a very strong stone in the pond. It is recognizable to all of us, also on the basis of the media, that very forward lending is being thought of in, for example, the Balticum and less in a number of countries in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u211	And where is the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u212	I have repeatedly argued that, so I am going to refer to my previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u213	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u214	Yeah, finally. I'm really sorry about this. The Minister gives a procedural answer, and I understand that, but I am also trying to understand where we stand on the whole spectrum he has just mentioned. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to give a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u215	I shall have to deal with Mrs Karimi's disappointment, including myself personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u216	To be honest, I think it is wise for the government to wait and see what the Commission's view is. You may also wonder whether it is wise to make a country that is at war a candidate for membership of the EU. But let us now await that opinion of the European Commission. I am pleased that the Minister now confirms that we should not relax the conditions for Ukraine and for any country. That is not in Ukraine's interest either; they then finally, I think, come home from a cold carnival too. But my question is another: how can we perhaps try to bring Ukraine closer to the European family, or show that they are part of it, and strengthen cooperation with Ukraine, on the assumption that Ukraine is far from ready for membership of the EU and perhaps not yet for accession? This could be done, for example, in my first term of office, by strengthening the position of the Council of Europe and strengthening the links between the EU and the Council of Europe by various means. Does the Minister perhaps see a way in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u217	That is a very valid point. I come back to the Council of Europe in great detail. I know that since Mr Kox has been in even higher positions, this has been an ongoing item on the agenda in all the debates I am having here with Mr Van Apeldoorn; I am not saying that this is unjustified. So I will come back to that, but I also agree with the broader point. Now, regardless of what that trajectory looks like, let us help Ukraine anyway, on each of the topics that we consider important. This can also be done, for example, in the process of reconstruction, on which Minister Schreinemacher and a number of others are on top. I agree with that in any case. The Council of Europe can certainly play a role in this, but I would not want to limit it to that, because I think we should actually open up all registers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u218	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u219	Okay, let's finish. For the record, even before Mr Kox became President of the Parliamentary Assembly, I and others in my group often spoke about the Council of Europe during the General European Reviews and also in other debates. But I'm gonna wait for the block on that too. But then I come back to a point that Mr Oomen made earlier that we need to deepen before we can expand so far. I do not know whether we need to deepen, but we need to ensure that we can cope with this enlargement as an EU. This also has to do with the debate on the rule of law. I have argued earlier in the debate on the European rule of law, and that was actually with Mr Van Ballekom that you can only actually admit new Member States if you ensure that, should they slip back when it comes to respecting the principles of the democratic rule of law, you can effectively act against them. This is not actually the case because the EU is relatively powerless. So perhaps the Minister could go into that again when we talk about the enlargement debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u220	Yes, and I would also like to refer in particular to what I said at the time. All kinds of things in the European Union have great added value, but like any human project, it is, of course, far from perfect. One of the things we are concerned about with each other, of course, is exactly how some countries have slipped backwards; see the discussion we are having about Hungary and Poland. At the same time, I need to be realistic about what we can do in the short term, and I am also afraid that in the longer term, we will be able to organise countries that are slipping back into decline again. I don't think there's much chance that that's gonna work. So although I understand it best philosophically, I estimate the chance that we can fight it for each other, regardless of whether all practical repercussions would be desirable, not as likely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u221	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u222	All the more reason, I would say, to be very careful with enlargement and to think very carefully about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u223	The VVD Group did not just ask rhetorical questions in the first term. Following on from what Mr Van Apeldoorn said, I explicitly asked whether an amendment to Article 7 of the Treaty, for example, is not necessary before we start thinking about new accessions. That's floor. During the debate on the rule of law, Mrs Oomen had a different view on this, but I am now talking to the Minister. For me, it would be a sine qua non for further expansion. You first get your own house in order before you receive guests, at least that's normal for the Van Ballekom family to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u224	I don't get there enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u225	Then there's my second question. No matter how far you see the accession process, it is a long-term process. I hope that we will be able to start the reconstruction of Ukraine in the near future. In this context, I asked the Minister whether it would not be wise not only to focus massively on humanitarian hup and aid in the time of reconstruction, but also to look at Ukraine's earning capacity, Ukraine can export an enormous amount of sustainable energy to the European Union, and to extend trade and association agreements to the maximum so that Ukraine's earning capacity is as great as possible in relation to the European Union. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u226	It is quite right for Mr Van Ballekom to remind me of this, and I also agree with what he says. That is not only my view, because that also came up in the conversation with Zelensky, for example, and also a number of times in the conversation with Kooleba. Ukraine itself has in mind that a reconstruction programme should not only be about money and literally rebuilding things, but also about a trade relationship. They were also very interested in and very explicit about, for example, the Dutch capacity in the areas of water, agriculture and innovation. So if we really want to help Ukraine, we also have to make a very strong commitment from the various Member States and from the different capitals to that trading leg, because that country has been very much helped. So that's how people see it there. Whether this should be done by means of a trade agreement: potentially, but I very much agree with Mr Van Ballekom that reconstruction and trade relations should go hand in hand. I have also heard him very well about getting the house in order before inviting guests, but I would like to refer to the previous debate, otherwise I will do it again here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u227	I'm sure you'll be able to confirm that. That can be answered briefly with a yes or no. Is it a condition? I think it would be wise to change the procedures. You can meet the Copenhagen criteria, as Mrs Oomen has said before, but if you are already a member, you cannot suddenly throw those Copenhagen criteria over the fence. So you need a good sanctioning methodology in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u228	With all due appreciation, and of course you have every right to ask it again, but in the previous debate, of course, I briefly said that I understand that idea and would very much like to protect the rule of law better, but I am also reluctant to promise here that the Netherlands will be able to regulate it before the Union expands. I'm not so hopeful about that. I also think that we have to expect some of the adjustments that we made a few years ago and which we are now applying.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u229	Finally, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u230	Are you talking about the MFF rule of law and the 36 billion released for some windowdressing? That's not what I'm thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u231	I noticed that in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u232	Thank you. Then I'll take a look at the clock and the schedule. I know the Minister has urgent commitments in the next hour. Six members must go to the EZK committee. Dinner's ready, too. For these various reasons, I'm going to suspend until 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u233	The next item is the continuation of the General European Reviews. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u234	Thank you, Mr President. If I recall correctly, we arrived at block three before lunch. It's about geopolitics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u235	That was before dinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u236	I'm sorry, did I say "for lunch"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u237	"For lunch," you said. Slowed down a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u238	You lose the sense of time here sometimes. But that's entirely up to me, Mr. Chairman. We're at block three. We have already done a lot of that, because much of what is geopolitical and has been put forward by Members also affects Ukraine. But I might be able to say a few things about it. Mr Van Ballekom asked about the Strategic Compass and the common security policy. In order to reassure him, decision-making in launching EU military missions will of course continue to take place on the basis of unanimity. In particular, it talks about more flexible implementation of decisions taken unanimously by the Council. That's the way people look at it. The use of Dutch military personnel is always subject to the national democratic decision-making process. Then there's just Rule 100. It's not gonna change anything. Frankly, I do not speak very many people in Dutch politics who would like to change that. Then there is a question from Mr Van Ballekom about the purpose of the Strategic Compass. The aim is to become more self-reliant as the EU and to take more responsibility for its own security. I would like to stress once again that the cornerstone of the security policy of the Netherlands and of many EU Member States was and will remain NATO. Mr Van Ballekom will agree with me. You do want the EU to gain geopolitical strength and fill the big gap between real security policy and economic policy, but that is different from the fact that the EU would make this NATO role redundant or replace it. That's out of the question. My impression is also that almost all the main players are aware of this. What I myself find very remarkable and positive is that I have now had a number of meetings with the EU colleagues to which the American, Canadian and British Foreign Ministers and the Secretary-General of NATO joined. But the opposite has also happened a number of times, namely a NATO meeting with the Foreign Ministers, with which Swedish and Finnish colleagues joined. They are now in the process, of course, but before that was mentioned they were already there. Borrell and others were among them again. It is therefore realized on both sides of the dividing line how important it is for these two organisations to cooperate much more with each other, without, by the way, affecting the specific task concept. When you look at that group, it's pretty clear that's the way it's supposed to be. I believe that out of the present 30 NATO countries, I like the exact numbers too good, there are 20 or something of a similar size EU member. So that's really the way it's supposed to be. Then there was a question from Mr Van Ballekom and many others about abolishing the veto. What about QMV and Member States that do not comply with those decisions? The monitoring of this implementation would then be of primary political nature. You should also agree, not only on abolishing the veto, but also on the implications, especially in the following case. I'm gonna join you in Van Ballekom's thinking. Suppose you agreed on a sanction package that has repercussions on trade. Then you should also find the legal basis in the agreements we have made with regard to trade in order to appeal to a Member State to break the unity. The first step is, of course, that you agree on abolishing the veto. The Netherlands is in favour of this. Germany, Spain and a number of other countries are, but we are not finished there. Then there is Mr Van Rooijen's question about my view of Europe. I hope he will agree with what I have explained in the State of the Union, the letter of Parliament on foreign affairs policy of May 2020 and the other documents that have gone to the Chamber. I was, of course, gilded that he also specifically asked for a Christian-democratic impact. I must, of course, formulate with caution, because I am here to speak on behalf of the cabinet and as a simple servant of the Crown and not as a member of my party. But the fact that he brought it up, of course, given his progress, I am only very happy to hear. I hope Mr Van Rooijen will also recognise that many of the issues relating to values, to the rule of law, to geopolitics, to the role that Europe should assume, are in line with what he and I both think. We have, of course, exchanged views on this more often. I have one final comment to make. Many of the cases in the first letter from March/April were almost ready before the war began. They are, of course, adapted to current events, but we could leave many of the geopolitical comments in the draft on paper. At most we have provided more examples, but we had already formulated that thought in the Ministry. Mr. Chairman. I'll take a look. I've done most of the geopolitics. I think I have also said a few words about Mr Van Ballekom's question about strengthening EU-NATO cooperation. I hope he'll be okay with that. I must say, however, that you see here again that such a dire situation leads to things that had not been obvious before. You would think "these institutions are both in and around Brussels, so that should be easy to arrange," but that extra push has now been given by the war, by the crisis. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I should mention one thing that has been half-asked for: the process of ratifying the accession of Finland and Sweden. I very much hope it will take place. With another Member State, we still have some problems to resolve, but I very much hope that before or at the Madrid Summit everyone can agree with the accession of these two countries. I consider this to be highly justifiable in terms of content. These countries are not only extremely close allies of the Netherlands, but would also really be an asset to NATO's position. Mr Koole asked if any thought had been given to the disadvantages on this positive side. For example, he referred to that long border of 1,300 kilometers. That's absolutely true. And yet my belief is that it will make the world more stable and safer. Moreover, I believe that these two countries, with whom we work so closely, have a great deal in common with the Netherlands in terms of the rule of law, human rights and finance. At all events, you should look for reasons not to include those countries. But you can add that both countries of Sweden have made quite a catch-up in recent years and Finland has already learned a lesson from the Finnish-Russian war of 1939................................................................................................................................................ Anyone who has ever studied this war and the lessons Finland has learned from it knows that it is also able to mobilise the entire population in the event of an attack. I think Finland, quite rightly, has learned the lessons from the Winter War. The Finnish Prime Minister recently said that if you look at the list of countries whose own people are willing to defend their own territory, Finland is at the top of that list. That's how it is in the culture of the country. That is another reason to look at it positively. They are countries that I think I can see in military circles too, that you want to be wrong in a shooter's pit. There is another point I would like to make in connection with Mr Koole's question. It's about the trial. Of course, the cabinet, the Council of State, and the First and Second Chamber are involved in the process of accession. Perhaps I can say here in all courtesy that a little bit of the Netherlands is also being looked at with the question of whether we can do our procedures faster than the last two times. We were once the last and once the one-after-last, and then we were only the one-after-last because a cabinet had fallen in another country. Our procedures are relatively long. On the cabinet side, we will do everything in our power to ensure that this process is speeded up, and we would agree at the Madrid Summit. I would also like to make that comment here. If there are things the cabinet can do to enable dialogue to take place as quickly as possible, we will take it for granted, but perhaps I can also bring that to the attention of the Chamber. That was the block geopolitics, the third block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a question on two points. One is about the relationship between the EU and NATO. I believe that Mr Van Ballekom has spoken, but at least also by me, about the capacity of 5,000 people and, above all, who is taking the initiative. Is that the European Council? Is there a need for an international treaty? What is the connection with NATO or is there a double chain of command? Perhaps the Minister could say a little more about that. The second point concerns the last thing the Minister just said about Finland and Sweden. The process needs to be speeded up. So what's "quick"? And above all: has the consideration to be given to this also taken into account the fact that, in Russian perception, the border of the West is very close to their land border and is even shared in Finland? Has that been a consideration? Could that perhaps also be a consideration in the discussion that some have already initiated about possible NATO membership of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u240	No, not about the last one. Of course, we are looking at the point of the long border, especially by experts. We already have obligations, of course, through the EU Treaty, which are not so heavy but which are indeed there, to help EU Member States in the event of an emergency. So Finland would end up in a war under the old regime too, and that would have all kinds of repercussions for all the Member States of the European Union. That's important to realize. But of course Mr Koole is right: you have 1,300 kilometers where you are literally eye-to-eye with the Russians in theory. There's no such situation right now. I myself believe that the request of a country which is very close to us, which is, first and foremost, combined with the open policy that we have, the security situation as it is now, and the military resources that these countries have, are all very good arguments for doing so, rather than not doing so. So you should actually believe that, by taking that step, you would put the fuse in the powder keg and thus dramatically deteriorate the security situation of Finland itself, but also of other countries. My belief is that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u241	I understand that very well. I also agree with Finland and Sweden. But my question was also: what does that mean by analogy for possibly Ukraine? The minister just said that the Finnish people are extremely willing to fight to defend the country, but you can also say that of the Ukrainian people. But there are also great differences between countries. Is it the case that when you join NATO you should also have some kind of Copenhagen criteria for the rule of law and all those other criteria, in order to be able to comply with NATO membership?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u242	Not exactly in this way, but in the past new entrants have also often looked at adjacent topics. Only, let us be quite honest: if you look at the rule of law, democracy and human rights, I would dare say that almost everyone in the Union, including the Netherlands, can learn from Sweden and Finland in a number of parts. At that point, they don't really have a horde to take anymore. Ukraine is really a different story, if only because that country is at war now. I do not think it is wise to speculate on this now. We have also said this before: that is really not the issue. I have two more pieces of the answer I am guilty of, because if I understood Mr Koole correctly, he would ask four questions in one. He also asked about the time limit when we can all agree to that request. My estimate is that some countries have done so in a number of weeks or a few months. For example, the United States assumes that they will have arranged this before the end of the summer. I was part of an informal NATO meeting, where countries really ran into each other how few weeks they would need. If you reject that against the decision-making process in the Netherlands in the last two cases, then, I believe, it took us some time between 9 and 12 months. This has implications for the security situation in which we bring Sweden and Finland, because at that time the real lock on the door is not yet in place. Of course, a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, America and ourselves, have provided security guarantees. But I fully understand the feeling in those countries: you're not really inside until you're inside. And you will not really be in until ratification has been completed in all those Member States. This requires the cabinet to develop maximum speed. Moreover, I have contacted the institutions that are more in the front of the chain, i.e. the Council of State and the House of Representatives, but I did not want to miss this opportunity, because I suspect that the need to admit these countries is great here too, and I also suspect that there will be a tendency here to speed up the process where this can reasonably be done. That is why I would like to mention the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u243	Finally, sir... or are you not ready, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u244	I still had the 5,000. I'm gonna stay close to what I got from the DOD. This rapid reaction force should build on the so-called EU battle groups consisting of approximately 1,500 soldiers. If you look at the objective of crisis management, longer-term stabilisation missions, evacuation operations, and possible maritime operations, then the military estimates that it should be possible to do so. Then you can also see why that is really different from what NATO should possibly be able to do, namely to defend territory. The command is carried out by the existing EU Military Headquarters, which is also being expanded. Any development of defence capabilities and command goes in very close cooperation with NATO. In any case, what I have just said is that NATO remains the cornerstone of security policy, the parliament and the cabinet are always about the broadcast of Dutch soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u245	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u246	I would like to come back to the question of accession to NATO and the possible discussion of Ukraine, not Sweden and Finland. Do I now understand from the Minister that the willingness of the people to fight, the military capacity, but also, for example, the democratic state of law, including a lot of non-military considerations, play a role in admission to NATO?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u247	No, I mentioned Finland's example as an example. I can't help noticing the lessons they learned from the Winter War. The combination of the mentality of the population and the actual military capacity is, in my opinion, very much present in Finland, but also in the belief of people who really know it, namely the military experts. This means that we are not only appealing to NATO, but also offering added value ourselves. That's what I wanted to say. Eventually, soft markers are also being looked at, as I just mentioned, but I really should check the articles when it comes to what is said about accession. Even though Finland and Sweden are doing so well, we all know that they are even reaching the EU bar, I haven't even looked up the exact wording or had it looked up with regard to NATO. For those countries, that's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u248	It is good that the Minister is going to Turkey tomorrow, because I am very curious to see what he is going to bring with him when it comes to the demands that Turkey is now making with regard to membership, especially Sweden. I see in an article in Deutsche Welle that Turkey demands that Sweden stop supporting Kurdish groups that regard Ankara as terrorists, that arms embargoes should be lifted after Turkish invasions in Syria and that political asylum obtained by all kinds of people in Sweden and Finland should be withdrawn. Those are quite firm demands on the Turkish side. What is the Minister's view that Erdogan is going to take the whole thing hostage at the summit in Spain with these conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u249	My hope and expectation is that we will eventually get out of this, because everyone sees that unity is rightly called upon. We're at war, not NATO, but we do see a war as a continent. That has great consequences for all of us. Although none of NATO's Member States are directly at war, we are dealing with this situation. The exceptional situation can be seen in the case of Finland and Sweden. I do not tell you a great secret when I say that I had regular conversations with my previous colleagues when I was Minister of Finance: why is NATO not for you? Just as I have often said to the Norwegians: is the EU not for you? There was always a reaction to that: perhaps we will think about it in 50 years' time. That's what's happened now. Thus, at the very beginning of this conflict, Sweden has already chosen to supply arms to Ukraine. Sweden hasn't done that since the Winter War.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u250	May I interrupt? I understand all this, but it's about Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u251	Yeah, I came up with that. The first thing I'm going to explain is, it's a time of unity... I'm gonna try to explain. It's a time of unity, and I think it requires something from all of us. Furthermore, of course, some modesty fits us. We're not the party that's gonna solve that. However, as I have already mentioned with my Turkish colleague: let us see how we can achieve this, what concerns are justified and perhaps best addressed. I think we in the West have really underestimated how sensitive things are in Turkey that touch the PKK. At the same time, of course, there are also things that sometimes go over the table and which I believe are impossible to deliver. But I'm gonna have that conversation tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u252	Finally, Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u253	Then there's a scenario. Suppose the summit in Spain creates obstacles for Sweden and Finland. I am not a defence specialist, but I have looked into the Treaty of the European Union. If I am right, there is a treaty rule, Article 42.7, that should anything happen in Finland or Sweden, we have an obligation to support Sweden and Finland. I see Mrs Oomen nodding in the Chamber. He knows that much better than I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u254	Sure, but that's what I was just referring to. I have just indicated that Union countries are obliged to help each other. But if you look at the exact text, you can see that its hardness is different from that of Article 5 of the Alliance. That is also why not only EU Member States... That is why the EU Member States have added to the list and the United States and the United Kingdom have provided security guarantees, precisely for that reason. Because what is one afraid of in theory? That a very small piece of land would be occupied and that would then make accession impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u255	Finally, from my group. Sweden and Finland are also true pioneers in feminist foreign policy within the EU and will certainly be so within NATO, so we wholeheartedly support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u256	In my opinion, the Minister has not yet answered some of my questions in the geopolitical block. Firstly, I have expressed my concerns about what I have referred to as the geopoliticisation of the European Union and where it could lead, for example with regard to the elaboration of the concept of strategic autonomy. When it comes to reducing strategic dependencies, I can imagine a lot of that. But if it ultimately leads to a permanent division of the world, rival economic blocs, but also to the transformation of the EU, which once started as a peace project in a military power block, then I have serious doubts. My question to the Minister was whether he could go into that or reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u257	We agree on a lot of things, but we may not fully agree on this. It is my belief that the Union should be able to translate the trading power we have into addressing geopolitical challenges, cyber challenges, espionage challenges, trade challenges. I think we have all followed what has recently happened in Lithuania's relationship with China. Apart from that specific case-law, it is a situation in which one of the Union's countries, with 3 million inhabitants, felt confronted with China. That's an uneven situation. So I think you should do that, but perhaps that's reassuring. That doesn't mean you're militarizing Europe. At the same time, Europe must finally be able to defend its own continent. I have heard a great deal of agreement on this too. We have behaved too much as freeriders for too long and thought: the Americans will solve this when there is a problem. I think it is a positive development that we have now decided with NATO Member States to invest more. In addition, Mrs Stienen's question, I think I said: let us take advantage of that moment to make sure that you combine that additional investment with better agreements who does what, so more job specialisation, more interoperability as it is called. Then use that extra money not only to buy more stuff individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u258	I agree with the Minister that Europe must be able to defend itself. As far as I am concerned, it is not necessary to raise defence budgets enormously now, but that is another discussion. My question was about the militarisation of the EU. The Minister says that he is not in favour of this either; indeed, that reassures me somewhat. But when I read the Strategic Compass, for example, it is not just about stepping up cooperation within Europe, which I and my group would be in favour of, but also about further militarisation of the EU, with, for example, more resources for the European Defence Fund and so on. Of course, trade policy also has a geopolitical side, but it does like to be within the rules of international law and multilateralism. Isn't the strength of the EU also decided to ask this question in the fact that the EU is different from China and Russia, for example, but also from America, by not being a purely military force, but a power based on trade and standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u259	What I think is avenging here is that the cabinet considers many of the things Mr Van Apeldoorn calls'militarisation' to be adequate. We believe that the additional investment in national resources, by the Netherlands, but also by other countries, is a much-needed and much-needed step to defend the continent. The same applies to the intervention force, which we were just talking about. The same applies to the various purses of 500 million that we have promised Ukraine to finance weapons with. These are all steps that countries are taking, but they are also putting the Union on, well, at least half-military ground. I think that's a good development. At the same time, I agree that Europe also has a huge soft power and that you should also use it. Only, from my point of view, it is high time that Europe really learned to stand on two feet, namely on the foot of soft power and on the foot of translating economic power into harder forms of power, especially when you are under pressure yourself. My observation is that in recent years we have often allowed ourselves to eat the cheese of bread in the domain of cyber, espionage and harder-handed trading partners, also because we have not been able to unite enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u260	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u261	Once again, trade policy is also using geopolitics, or by means of sanctions defending our interests, I find something other than militarisation, which, in my view, is ultimately at the expense of our soft power. But I also had another unanswered question about abolishing the right of veto. I was also talking about this with Mr Huizinga this morning by way of interruption. I understand the discussion and the considerations to say that perhaps within the common foreign and security policy this should be abolished, at least in a number of areas, such as sanctions. But I also pointed out the risks: you can make a decision that is ultimately not supported by a consensus, maybe small countries will be overruled by large countries on a structural basis, and it may ultimately undermine the EU as a whole. Does the Minister see these risks? Or is he saying that those risks are actually not there and that we should simply go for it in full? Or is he saying that it's a trade-off where we finally went this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u262	You have to be so honest, I think, to acknowledge that each of these kinds of choices are pros and cons. An advantage of unanimity is that you can block it on your own if you're willing to be the only one. In any case in theory, a disadvantage of QMV is that you can also be one of the votes in favour. In theory, of course, that is entirely correct. Nor can it be excluded that this could happen to the Netherlands at some point. But if I have to try to articulate the best way forward now, then I am in favour of dealing with that road, not only after mature reflection, but anyway. You can see how complicated the discussion is now around the sixth sanction package. Imagine if at the beginning of February, for whatever reason, one Member State had said, for a proper reason, related to the file, or for an improper reason, because of a problem in another field......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then the Union would have been completely empty-handed and it would have been really different in the last three months. So if I'm gonna have to choose how that balance goes, he's gonna go crazy like that. But of course it is not that there is nothing on the other side of the balance sheet by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u263	I had asked a question, which I think I hear in this block, about a quote by Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. Would you care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u264	Should I comment on the quote?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u265	I asked a question, but maybe it's in another block?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u266	If Mrs Huizinga is okay with it, I'll take a look in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u267	Do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u268	I shall do so with great caution so that I do not attempt to comment on Mr De Hoop Scheffer's comment again. The other way around is possible, but I am of course extremely cautious in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u269	I had asked a clear question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u270	I am going to take a look, otherwise Mrs Huizinga will undoubtedly remind me of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u271	Count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u272	It's probably in the set somewhere. Mr. Chairman. First, I'm gonna try to say some things about the conference. Maybe now that we've made some progress, I can start by stressing once again that I think it's okay that we did it. We have tried to talk about this with the people in the country, but also in other countries. However, it is important that follow-up is carried out. It is my belief that citizens of countries really understand that drivers cannot solve everything, but cynicism is lurking if there is no real follow-up. By the way, I also think that you should be reluctant as a government or as a parliament to make comments that really belong to the people themselves. Of course, it is your right to have different views, but it is the question of whether you should want to mix one with the other. It is perhaps a good thing to say that we will talk about this in the Cabinet on Friday and we will send a letter next week to the House of Representatives and the First Chamber in which we will give the various parts a kind of first substantive weighting. I would like to add that it will be a summary letter on the main lines. Then there is a lot left to discuss afterwards, but then we will give something of a first appreciation. It is expected that this will be discussed again at the European Council in July and in the Council with the Foreign Ministers. Let me make one final introductory remark. Then I have answered some of the questions. There is, of course, constant discussion as to whether or not a treaty change is needed. I myself would very much like us to address many of the substantive points, without staring blindly at the debate on whether or not to amend the Treaty. Is the Netherlands necessarily against this? I would be in favour of achieving a substantive thing, but experts say that 93%, I believe, of all suggestions from all Member States should be possible without treaty changes. Keep me in good shape, but I believe that the percentage is even higher in the Dutch case. This means that I would much rather have the substantive discussion in Europe than the discussion: are you for or against a treaty change? In my view, that should be an outcome of the substantive discussion. But I'm glad we did it. I also think we should go through with it. Of course, I do not want to tempt Mr Van Apeldoorn to walk back to the microphone, but he asked: is it a missed opportunity? I wouldn't think so. I just think you really need to do something with it. Mrs Karimi was right to ask for the veto. I think we have discussed this before in this debate. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked for unanimity. Is it reasonable to expect the right to vote to be deprived? Is that realistic? That heavy decision-making procedure leads me to believe at this point that it is unlikely that you will be able to move to Article 7 in the next stage. However, I understand why the people in the country have come up with this. They see that there is a problem and they think: solve it, because there is something really going on here. Mr Van Apeldoorn's question was specifically about whether I think we can achieve this in the short term. I don't think so. Mr Koole asked for the removal of individual Commissioners. That's one of the things you'd need a treaty change for. He's absolutely right about that. It is not the heart of the whole discussion, but in the category "to be self-accountable and to hold Commissioners responsible" we have been considered positive as a cabinet at the end. Then Mr Koole asked: do you need all those Commissioners? That's a good question. The Netherlands has traditionally been in favour of fewer Commissioners, thinking that this gives more power. On the other hand, especially for the smaller Member States, I can tell that they also like having someone on the Commission. It is not without added value, but I can find myself broadly in the spirit of his story, which I have understood as "less is more." Mrs Nanninga asked: can't you just work with a coalition of the willing in sanctions? Yes and no. Of course, you are dealing with internal law and the Schengen area, so trade restrictions and entry bans which the whole of the EU does not participate in, make very limited sense. That is the reality of the agreements we have made. Of course, that's what you'll see in the last round of discussions on Russia. Mrs Nanninga also asked whether we really want the Netherlands to become an effective province of Europe. No, but that is not the implication of lifting the right of veto. That would give you more power, for example in a discussion about sanctions. But that is really different from that you would only have the resources as a Dutch province. In fact, I think that if you look at the Dutch position and how we are often in discussions about sanctions, about human rights, about multilateralism, about common security policy, you will see that we are very often the ones who do not get what we want because of this unanimity. Then of course you can say: that may be different in the future. That's true. But I am less concerned about the provincialisation of the Netherlands. Then there was a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn, and from Mr Koole and perhaps others, about the spitzen candidates and even these parts. There's a letter on that at the end of juno. Then the Minister of the Interior is the first move to discuss that in the first instance with the House of Representatives. That's how we do it procedurally. We'll take these things with us. I say to Mr Koole and Mr Van Apeldoorn that if the Minister of the Interior sends something to the House of Representatives, it will land in the First Chamber. That must also be discussed here in the BZK committee. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Huizinga asked about the external borders. With the tone of what she said, I think I agree. I have always thought that the removal of internal borders has a lot of advantages for residents and for trade, but that we have done too little, certainly initially, to protect the external borders. Mrs Huizinga asked me specifically why we added it here. That's because the cabinet is shaking her head on a... Oh, I see Mrs. Huizinga shakes her head. It was not Mrs Huizinga who asked. Then I'll keep my mouth shut immediately and see if anyone's mad that I'm not answering. Mr. Chairman. Then I think I have made the comments that fall into the category of conference. That's how I think this block is sealed off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u273	Then I shall be the first to see Mr Koole. I see Mr Otten, too. He's back in the seat, but he's in line. If you come this way, Mr. Otten, at least it can't go wrong. Mr. Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u274	I assume that the comments on the civil panels could also be included in this section, which I mentioned in the first term. Or are they coming later?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u275	I have listened to this mainly as a reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u276	Okay. At least I'd asked questions about it. The government must not only raise knowledge from citizens through civil panels, but above all, citizens must also be informed in a balanced way, with pros and cons. That is also the intention of the government itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u277	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u278	That is what the government must do in a structural way, because it also says that this must be done on a continuous basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u279	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u280	My question is whether the government could undertake to draw up a plan for informing citizens. So that is not so much about picking up via the civil panels, which can sometimes be useful, but I believe that informing citizens is much more important. I ask the government to draw up a multi-annual plan with corresponding resources and to forward it to the Chamber at any given time, within six months or so. 'Cause at least we'll know what's going on. Now there are all kinds of intentions, but there is no really comprehensive plan, which is very much needed. Could the government agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u281	Mr Koole is right, because he asked for this and I should have said that immediately. Yes, I absolutely believe that there is a task for the cabinet and also for me personally. One of the things I want to try myself is that it gets even more complicated in the agenda. It's to talk to people more often in the country about what they think and what things are like. I think there is real added value in talking to people in the country about the different aspects of the Union. They are, of course, free to disagree wholeheartedly with me or with any member of the cabinet. I was gonna promise him that anyway. In addition, we are also working on issues where civil servants talk to students, for example. Other members of the cabinet also regularly take up the farmer. Just, I'm a little worried about some kind of really big communication plan. I very much agree with Mr Koole that we should not just pick up, but that we should also engage in dialogue ourselves. But I might want to fly it a little bit more practical. In any case, I believe that I have a clear role to play. Of course it is primarily up to the Lower House and secondary to the Upper House to find out how that goes and how I do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u282	Finally, Mr Koole.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u283	But in the State of the Union, it says that the government sees it as a task to involve citizens in the European Union by informing people, actively listening to what the citizen expects of the Union and creating support. That active listening is partly done by the promised civil panel, you might say. Creating support can only be done if you do the pros and cons in an extensive campaign. Information needs to be much more active. It is of course very good that an individual minister and perhaps also civil servants want to do so, but I would ask the government to make a plan for this. That doesn't have to be very big right away, but it does have to be structural. As the government itself says, constant effort is required. Such a plan must show that this constant effort is being made and that if resources are needed, they will be included. I would like to ask the government to forward this to the Chamber within six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u284	The hesitation with me there I simply want to be transparent about his... is not so much unwilling as looking at what is effective. For example, I think one of the things we can look at again is how you make things easier to find online. How many of the rather technical issues that affect the interests of the Union can also be found in ordinary people's language? I myself believe that there is also a task for me to broaden the debate on the Union. The reason I hesitate is that when there is a specific dossier, television is often a very effective way of informing citizens about what is going on. Only, I do not feel at all for a plan in which the cabinet is going to commit itself to an x-number of times a week on television. So that's where the hesitation is. Let me think a little bit more about what I can explain about this, because I am afraid of a plan that just doesn't reach the goal again or just misses it. In the second term, I will come back to whether I can deliver any more meat on the bones, even though it may have someone saying: it should be reworded.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u285	I hear the Minister talking about a plan that doesn't reach its goal. He was just talking about sanctions. Now I heard the Minister say: if we abolish the veto, we can have a more effective sanctions policy. But I think this minister is a coordinating minister for sanctions. There are a lot of Russian assets in the Netherlands. He had to call in the help of good old Stef Blok to get some sanctions off the ground. What is the situation with that? My question to the Minister. What does the EU veto have to do with this? Some countries are very far away from that. The Netherlands is less far away from that. Can the Minister explain that? Because we don't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u286	Mr Otten is quite right. It's two very different things. One is about how you do it internally effectively. The other is about how to get you to agree on those sanctions at all. For that second, that international one, that European one, you would like to abolish that veto. The question of how to organise it internally is, of course, up to Member States themselves. I'll get that letter to the Chamber. The observation is that things can certainly be better in the Netherlands. In this package, too, we have learned and seen things in coordination where you can gain effectiveness, including at home and in dialogue with Europe. If you look at the numbers and wonder how the Netherlands did that, and if you correct for example for central bank assets that were present to a large extent in France, you can see that those numbers for the Netherlands actually work out quite well. The same applies to goods, and the same applies to the freezing of money. In that section of Blok it is all written: the good sides and the things that can be done better. That is all explained and I will share it with the Chamber, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u287	But how does the Minister look back? All this started on February 24th. We've moved on for over a hundred days now. How does the Minister look back on his initial approach to these sanctions? Does he also feel that things could have been better and faster there, or did they all go as planned? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u288	What Blok says about this, and he is absolutely right, I think, is that if you look at the comprehensiveness of the package and the organisation in the Netherlands, we have learned something about how to do it even better in this situation. Some of those things are still in the pipeline. The Blok recommendations mention a number of practical points, such as that you have to amend the law, for example the Lawyers Act, or that you have to do it in a separate sanction law, and so there are a number of examples. That's the first part. The second piece is that Blok indicates that there are no indications that money would have been leaked out of the Netherlands on a large scale. That is the image that was originally created, but that is not the case. The third thing he says is that there has also been some misunderstanding that if holding companies are based in the Netherlands, you could have frozen hundreds of millions or billions in that place. Mr Otten is well aware of this. A holding company means that there is just a small room of an office in Amsterdam where the accounts are deposited, but that doesn't mean anything about your ability to actually freeze assets in, for example, Russia itself, or elsewhere. The fourth thing that Blok says, and I mentioned it earlier in the debate, is to see how you do things more operationally for the whole Union. I mentioned earlier as an example that these names are actually known too early and that it is only later established. There are more examples, very practical. Those banks get long lists and they all have to overtook them. Why can't you do that in an easier file so you can roll it out faster? That is all described in great detail and I will see to it that the Chamber gets it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u289	Thank you. I believe that the sanctions were part of block 1, and that was a few hours ago. You have now reached the conference on Europe, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u290	I was at block four, but I wanted to avoid the risk that Mr Otten felt inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u291	You are right, but Mr Otten can also ask his follow-up question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u292	At the Conference on the Future of Europe, I have the feeling that the Minister is passing through the remarks I made in the first term. I talked about the convention, and I asked the Minister whether you should not use it to achieve that 5%, in addition to the 90% that you can already take by qualified majority. Would that be a possibility? I haven't heard an answer to that. I hear from the President of the European Commission that they are in favour of the convention. I also hear from the European Parliament that there is a desire to convene a convention. Then it's a little too little when I hear: yes, we're still talking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u293	I think that is the answer I have to give, also given the discussion that still has to take place in the cabinet. On Friday there will be a Council of Ministers and next week a letter will be sent to the Second and First Chambers. Especially if Mrs Oomen asks a few more pressing questions, the temptation to reply will be very great, but I would also like to reduce the exchange of views that still has to take place in the Trêveszaal. That's why I'm saying what I just said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u294	Suggestions are not addressed. That's my problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u295	No, but of course I indicated earlier that the cabinet's approach in general is real: let's do the things that you can do without a treaty change and let's do the practical things first for that reason. I also think that this is a more fruitful way of operating quite practically; you can also say that that is a very Dutch way. But does that mean that a convention is excluded by definition? No, neither is that. I think it is only appropriate to say the last word on this after consultation in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u296	Finally, Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u297	We'll talk past each other anyway. I said: you can also use that convention to taste the kidneys, to see if you are prepared to use those passerelles unanimously. That is actually the point I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u298	Again, I understand that question, but I really think I should do it in the right order. I would therefore ask Mrs Oomen to understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u299	The Minister will agree with us that the Netherlands, by giving up our right of veto, is giving up, giving up, letting up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u300	On the one hand you can argue that you give up influence with that, because you can no longer vote against it on your own. That is undoubtedly the case. You can vote against it, but you can be overvoted. The other side is that you can gain influence. See, for example, the discussion over the last six months. In doing so, the Netherlands has been on the side of the discussion that we would have liked more and more and more, so we would have gained influence there, especially in the case of that sixth sanction package, without that veto when it comes to the Dutch position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u301	That is a case in which we get our way without a right of veto, but that does not prevent us giving up substantial influence. I can imagine situations, because that is what the Minister is describing here, in which, without the right of veto, we get right once or get lucky, but giving up altogether is undoubtedly the giving up of influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u302	There are two sides to that medal. So you lose influence, at least in theory, because you can't torpedo decision-making on your own or with one or two others of smaller size. That is undoubtedly true. But take that discussion about the sixth sanction package. The Netherlands would have liked to have seen that package much more robust and already four weeks earlier. In a number of instalments this has been cut down considerably, while we, whether it was SWIFT, energy, Russians on the list or how much percent ownership in a company we would really like to put a company on the list. That is not possible, because often one or two countries do not want to do so. So we would have gained influence and could have translated the Dutch wish for policy into actual policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u303	Finally, Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u304	Allow me to make a small correction. Not only in theory we give influence, but also in practice. We're giving up irrevocable influence. Again, the second scenario outlined by the Minister is a scenario in which the right of veto is annoying for us, but that is something other than that we exercise more influence. So I would very much like the Minister to stop playing word games and just at the very least to admit, not only to me, but to everyone in the Netherlands, that we simply give up influence by giving up our right of veto. This does not mean that this situation may prove to be beneficial to us in some cases. But we're just giving up influence, aren't we? I would be happy if the Minister would at least admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u305	But I am describing the nuance because it is so important in the debate. One is about the formal situation. I would really like to argue that the second is only a matter of luck once, because in the material sense we would have had more influence in this case. So I really think I can hold on to that, where I've acknowledged it every time, but I'd like to do it again once more... that at the moment you belong to the group that would have vetoed it, but then it's overvoted, of course, you've lost influence; so it's both true. But I think that point of material influence is also true.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u306	My comment concerns the Conference on the future of Europe and the question that arose there: how can we make Europe more democratic? That was one of the leading questions at the conference, a question which, as far as I am concerned, has not been sufficiently satisfactorily answered at that conference. In that context, I had indeed asked a question about the spitzencandidates system. Now the Minister refers to an answer or something that still comes from the Minister of the Interior, but I think the Minister has missed the slight sarcasm in my question a little bit. In fact, my approach was: is this the way in which the government thinks it is to bring the citizen closer to the European Union in the State of the Union, namely by having the President of the European Commission indirectly elected? Is that the government's answer to the question of how to bring citizens closer to the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u307	It is true for very measures, including those we take within the country, in all kinds of areas, that it is generally not wise to expect the full benefits of a narrow, specific measure. That goes for the same thing here. Here too, the cabinet will certainly not support that statement. I just wanted to point out that we have, moreover, received an appreciation of several parts of the proposal specifically with regard to the spitzencandidates. I immediately agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that when it comes to the question of how citizens feel involved in politics, including domestic politics, it is an illusion to think that one or two measures will change the world in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u308	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u309	Yeah, finally. I would like to highlight it because it is a concrete measure mentioned in the State of the European Union, which is actually one of the few concrete measures. One of them doesn't impress me very much, personally. As far as I am concerned, subsidiarity is the key to making Europe more democratic. That means decision-making as close to the citizen as possible. The question then is whether this is always respected in practice in Europe. It is also questionable whether we have properly divided competences between the Member States and the EU. In this broad public debate that Mr Koole wants to organise, and indeed I do, I believe that such questions should be central. At what level do we have to decide things? Is it not better to decide on certain things at Member State level? Should we not, for example, make the internal market more flexible rather than opting for a one-size fits-all approach, which we have also debated in this House before? I would think about that much more than the spitzencandidates system, but I don't hear the cabinet about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u310	In itself, of course, I very much agree with that. I very much agree not only with this debate, but also with what Van Apeldoorn and others have said about subsidiarity. It is not for nothing that in the Netherlands it is not only about proportionality, but also very often in great detail about subsidiarity, with almost every legislative proposal that passes treatment in both chambers and comes from Europe. I believe that this is an important subject of discussion in this House and on the other side. So I totally agree with that. So if Mr Van Apeldoorn says that it should have been there, I am happy to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u311	Mr Van Rooijen, and then we go to the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u312	I would like to confess, however, that a while ago I and my group were rather surprised at the government's position that the right of veto in the European Union should be called into question or even disappear in the Netherlands. Could the Minister be more specific? Does the cabinet believe that this should be an end to the right of veto in the whole area? Or is it mainly in the foreign sphere or in parts of it? I got that impression a little bit. You have just spoken of subsidiarity, but I would like to say that my group believes that the right of veto, particularly in the field of taxation, should remain. Could the Minister be more specific? When are we going to have a final debate on whether we as the Second and First Chambers think that something about that right of veto should change, while, briefly, the chairman of the Second and First Chambers in the Netherlands were very hard and very clear about it? Suddenly, there's a new vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u313	In my view, this is not so bad, also because it is quite explicitly stated in the government agreement that the government's view on the right of veto is about foreign policy. This concerns specifically some of the issues mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen. It's about sanctions, about human rights. It's about that kind of thing. I also really think that you can see that Europe has often failed to bring about unity. Again, I think it would have been very unfortunate if we had had less unity in the last three months than we have now shown. It is not a question of taxation or all kinds of other matters which simply apply by unanimity. That is not the view of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u314	But I cannot escape the impression that the fact that this is in the coalition agreement is significant. Of course it is. Specifically, in certain situations it will be necessary to show what we, as chambers, consider to be the way in which the cabinet operates. But isn't it obvious that if you go down that road, it's a dangerous road? In the Netherlands, apart from the coalition agreement, for decades sovereignty, subsidiarity and retaining the right of veto were of crucial and principled importance. That certainly applies to a small country. So I think this is a big deal. A few other countries, including Germany and Spain, agree. I'm sure it's all right, but that's what you said. But I'm afraid this is the beginning of a slippery slope. Perhaps it will apply to other areas as well. After all, once you, as a small country, accept that you are prepared to take steps in areas of foreign policy, there is no longer any need to hold back.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u315	I understand Mr Van Rooijen in such a way that he says: perhaps it will come back to another subject, where we find it difficult. We are at least there ourselves, but I cannot rule that out either. It's really not the cabinet's approach. I would also like to remind you of something that Mr Van Rooijen will recognize, namely that there are, of course, a number of areas where there is no unanimity at the moment either. There are all kinds of arrangements where QMV applies or even a simple majority. So we're not introducing a unique style figure right now. Honestly, I think the scope is limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u316	Finally, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u317	But does the Minister recognise that it is very important, especially for the Netherlands but also for other small countries, that the larger countries, especially the big three or four, know that there is always a closed door when the interests of some countries are at stake? Taxation is an almost sacred starting point in the Netherlands, but there are more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u318	We already agreed on that, but it is of course a continuum. We are now, of course, putting the cesorship differently, also because of the experience over the past few years. My observation is that, in geopolitical terms, Europe has often failed to take up the position it could have taken with such a type of adjustment. So that's what I'm here for. I am in favour of that. At the same time, I very much agree with Van Rooijen that this is really something quite different and should also be something quite different, and that the Second and First Chambers would discuss it if that discussion were to extend to very different areas. But there is, once again, really no such thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u319	What Mr Van Rooijen has said, I am not going to repeat all of them, but I certainly agree with that. The coalition agreement says that the coalition is open to treaty changes, and that is a dangerous combination with the possible giving away of the right of veto. Or does the Minister think otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u320	Yeah, I just argued differently. You really need to take these things apart. Of course, the political groups are quite free to have views on all issues, including, of course, taxation, but this is not the case. There is no discussion, not at all on my portfolio, but at least I do not know with the Secretary of State or the Minister of Finance about the tax example. This subject is really about parts of geopolitics. See also the German coalition agreement. In the financial sense, of course, they are often in the same way as we are in the competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u321	The Minister does make a very nice speech. He says, "There's no discussion about that right now." No, I don't think the Minister wants to discuss that. We have just talked about the right of veto, but what the coalition agreement says is clear, isn't it? If you want to abolish certain veto rights, you can do so just like that with a treaty change. Well, that's connected, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u322	I really hope that I have expressed it sufficiently, including the nuance. If Mrs Faber wants to read that it is going in a way that she finds totally unacceptable, I do not think I can do so much about it. It's just really different. I have tried to say this in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen. It is really different whether you are having a discussion about the full palette of the veto right or the discussion now, which is about the veto right in a number of specific issues that affect the geopolitical role of the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u323	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u324	Sorry, Chairman. I don't mean to offend the Minister, but I think it's a bit of a weird answer. Then let me put it a little simpler. Then the Minister... no, I can't talk about his words. I can't say. Then just ask whether this government is for or against treaty changes. Just yes or no and then let the rest sit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u325	But I have just indicated this in response to Mrs Oomen. Is the cabinet or is it not for a treaty change? In the debate on the Union, the cabinet wants a number of things to be dealt with in a material way. The cabinet is convinced that 93% of what citizens have put forward is probably the cabinet which cannot agree with everything without Treaty changes. Are we opposed to a treaty amendment? No. If that brings certain goals closer, we'll have potential for it. But you have to see what the material effect is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u326	Now you've provoked Mr. Otten. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u327	I have a brief question about the veto. As far as we are concerned, it is a total academic discussion, because this Prime Minister never uses that veto. What, according to the Minister, is the last time the Netherlands used the veto in the European Union? I wouldn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u328	I should look that up. In practice, of course, it is almost always about the threat of a veto. Has Hungary vetoed the last four weeks? No. But the threat of a veto means that there will be no vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u329	Then I suggest that we move on to another block, but only after Mrs Faber has placed a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u330	Thank you for your coulance, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Otten asked when was the last time the veto was used. The minister said he should look that up. Would the Minister like to look this up and pass it on to this Chamber in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u331	Yes. I do not have an overview of what is happening in all portfolios, but it is virtually never the veto sec in practice. It is almost always, see the case with Hungary, a threat with the veto which makes something not formal. That's how it goes. You can stare blindly at the number of times a country has made a cross, but you will not see Hungary, for example, in the discussion on sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u332	Is it an idea that you will come forward with the answer in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u333	I think it's a lot of digging. You're gonna have to search all the wallets on this. I'd like to make a promise, but I'll have to do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u334	Yeah, it's been agreed. Any short questions, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u335	Yes, Mr. Chairman. My questions are very brief today and certainly these. And it's just one. Does the Minister recognise that the existence of a right of veto means that you rarely have to use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u336	That's entirely up to you. It's also a question of how often you want to use it. In a formal sense, I have just mentioned this Hungarian example, which very often does not go that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u337	You've been very busy lately, the time of war, and I understand that very well. I can imagine that in times of war you can suffer a lot of vetoes, especially when a country with that veto threatens to support a country that we find hostile. The Minister has already had previous experience as Minister of Finance, for example in the field of taxation, and we have often debated this. My question in general is: does the Minister recognise that the existence of a veto means that you rarely have to use it and so it has its own function?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u338	No. Mr Van Rooijen makes explicit what was implied in my reply to Mr Otten. When you have it, you often don't get to that formal moment, because it doesn't make much sense. It doesn't make much sense. Just like it is here in the Chamber. Every once in a while, a bill is voted down. It is often the case that a cabinet or a initiator counts their buttons and whether or not to change the proposal or leave it at that. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u339	Then I suggest we move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u340	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That's the rule of law. It is good to start by emphasising once again its enormous importance for the Union. And rightly so, even now, there is more attention to it than has been the case in the past. Looking back, too, we can see that this debate has been going on for a long time and that it has taken quite a while before the Commission also got to the front of the table. A number of questions have been asked. I can say a few things about it in the direction of the members of your Chamber. Let's see what makes sense to start with. Maybe we should talk about that particular case of Poland first. A number of questions have been asked. In doing so, it is good to emphasise that the EU Restoration Fund is aimed in particular at strengthening the economies. On Dutch initiative, a link has been made with those CSRs, those country-specific recommendations. The Recovery Fund is not a rule of law mechanism in itself. It's important to realize that. So you cannot, unlike perhaps many here and in the cabinet, make all the rule of law criticism part of the discussion that is now taking place in the Ecofin about money. It's specifically about the CSRs. I should check Hungary's exact CSR, but I think it was only a part of the whole rule of law discussion. It's important to realize that, because you have a title on potentially one part. What has the Commission done in the past period, including with the agreement of the cabinet? We have tried to push wider Poland towards reforms. In particular, it concerned the disciplinary chamber and the review procedure. Mrs Stienen and, in my opinion, others referred to this. Moreover, this recovery plan is not the end result, because this is a first hurdle to be taken. When spending the money, you will encounter the Commission several times in the process. By the way, and I am not saying this to reassure you, the wider concerns about the problems of the rule of law in Poland, for example, have not been removed if you have solved this one specific aspect. Indeed, there is much more criticism from the Commission of Poland and, of course, Hungary. What we will do in all cases is to keep pressure on the European Commission to set up inter-group procedures, because that is the normal course of action against Poland, too, in areas that affect the rule of law. It's important enough for that. The same applies, of course, to Hungary, whose concerns are at least as great. But Hungary is now slightly less under the magnifying glass than Poland, perhaps given recent developments. It's important that we realize all those parts. The second thing I would like to say is that the Netherlands does not have a veto here. I would just like to refer to the debate with Mr Van Rooijen, who has just left the Chamber. So if you vote against, it's very much the question of what would be the final outcome of that. My assessment is that very few countries will continue to oppose the Recovery Fund. We discussed it today in the Cabinet. We will discuss it again on Friday. At the beginning of next week we will be able to inform the two Chambers of exactly what the Dutch position will be, in which we will consider all these parts. We are therefore very concerned, but of course we are also looking at what is real and sensible in this particular case, which is about the money from the Recovery Fund. The question is to what extent it is a discussion that actually lends itself more to a normal intergroup procedure. Mrs Karimi asked: what are we doing to ensure that Poland carries out this case? That is, of course, primarily up to the Commission. But every time there is an opportunity to do so, in informal discussions with Commissioners, but also in meetings, the Netherlands says that, as well as many like-minded countries, it takes not only the Court's ruling very seriously, but also the Commission's criticism. So that really gets echoed, also by all the countries that are like-minded in it. In this context, we also welcome the fact that the Court of Justice imposed a penalty payment on Poland in October. 'Cause that's gonna get the numerator running, too. Mrs. Oomen asked about the name change. I understood her in such a way that she said: is only a name change sufficient guarantee for the restoration of the rule of law? No, of course that's not good enough in itself. It is true that Poland is currently taking steps to amend the legislation on the disciplinary procedure. Moreover, that still needs to be dealt with in the Polish Parliament, so it is a bird in the air. For the Netherlands, it is important that that legislation is compatible with the requirement of judicial independence. That is what you ultimately want to keep going, and that is what we are all so worried about. The enormous importance of independent justice, of the free press and of everything that affects Article 1 in the Netherlands must apply throughout the Union, to all the inhabitants of all those Member States. And, of course, the problem is that there are serious concerns in Poland and especially in Hungary about all kinds of parts of that palette. Mrs Stienen asked: a lot of Commissioners voted against, what does that mean? At least that shows that it has not been an easy decision. I do not know the precise reasons for individual Commissioners. I do not know how they weighed that against the decision on the whole. But it's striking that it's coming out. And then I say it carefully. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether the Netherlands could still stop the Commission's decision. The Council shall vote by a qualified majority. At the moment, I have no signal from any Member State that we are going to vote against it. This may change, but this is the score right now. Then Mrs Oomen asked about the MFF rule of law and its implementation. The Commission has initiated this procedure against Hungary, particularly in the context of the MFF rule of law. That was formally done on April 27th. I have always insisted that the Commission also make active use of the rule of law mechanism. I'll keep doing that, too. That's a fact now. That's a good thing. Hungary therefore has until the end of this month to respond. Of course, we are waiting for that reaction with particular interest. Then Mrs Karimi also asked what leadership role we want to play here. I cannot say enough how essential everything that affects the rule of law is for the Union and for each of the citizens of the Union. I believe that this should be an encouragement for the Netherlands and other countries to continue to seek dialogue with the Commission, even if that is difficult. You cannot explain that every time you make a little bit of money, which is then irretrievably at the expense of either the judiciary or the free press, or matters that touch on Article 1, just a little while away from matters such as corruption, which are also of great concern in Hungary in particular. We will continue to do so. That applies to me personally, but so does the Prime Minister and the entire cabinet. That is a longer tradition, but I know that it is also felt very pronely wide in the cabinet. I can also tell from colleagues from Germany, Sweden and a number of other countries that they are very much inclined to talk about this. Mrs Huizinga and Mrs Karimi then asked about the reduction of Poland's aid for corona and about the discussion on compensation for the payment of refugees. Mrs Karimi also asked if we would establish this link between the rule of law and Ukrainian refugees. For the record, a reduction in the Polish recovery plan is not now before us. It is good to stress once again that funds from the Recovery Fund will not go to Poland until the reforms have been implemented. That's how the technique works. What is undoubtedly so, but I think that another chapter is that Poland is doing a lot in the area of reception of refugees. The counter stands at around 4 million. That's about 10% of the Polish population. So there is a huge effort there. By the way, the Polish people ultimately deliver them naturally and all kinds of people there in the country. It is admirable what countries like Poland, but also Slovakia, where I have seen it myself, and a number of other countries are doing in receiving Ukrainians. But as far as I'm concerned, that can't mean that you can park this discussion. I hope that will answer Mrs Karimi's question on how the cabinet views it. That's what I was talking about on the rule of law block, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u341	Mrs. Karimi is already in the starting blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u342	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree that the Corona Restoration Fund is not a rule of law fund, which is right, and that is not really the best solution. The best solution would be to activate Article 7 and allow it to do its job. But that's not gonna happen. It's actually the second best solution we have right now. If you do not use that, then of course the question is what kind of leverage do we have to achieve the judicial independence that we have said is so important for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u343	The uncomfortable thing about this debate, which is perhaps not unanimous in this House, is that solidarity and reciprocity in the Union do not go hand in hand in a number of fundamental areas. We have a system in which countries which, in themselves, are highly defendable, do less economically well, get more money. That has always been based on the idea that everyone would accept the rule of law. But the explicit link was never made in the beginning. In retrospect, that is something you would have liked to have arranged differently, because then it would have been much more obvious that if you repeatedly refuse to comply with certain obvious things, you will not be able to call on our solidarity automatically and permanently. But we are dealing with the rules as they are at the moment. This means that, in this particular case, you do have a means out of those CSRs on a part, but not more than a part, of that rule of law. By the way, this is a road with a number of milestones. This is the first discussion in the Ecofin Council, but it will come back a number of times. But even with that, you can't solve the whole rule of law formula. In any case, it is good to realise that, at the end of the day, the cabinet would come to the conclusion that we should vote against, that with the state of the crop at least now is a voice that will make no material difference. But that's the score now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u344	I think there are a few things that are mixed up. The rules also ensure that the European Commission is the guardian of these conventions and that the European Commission, with its proposals, must ensure compliance with the Court's rulings. That is, of course, where the Court's rulings lie. The Minister says, "I don't know why these Commissioners might have opposed it." I think we have all heard on Dutch television what the Dutch Commissioner's arguments were. These arguments are, of course, entirely valid, namely that the judgments of the Court must be complied with. Poland is a country that does not respect the primacy of European law, so we cannot actually adopt the recovery plan now. My specific question to the Minister is as follows. I know this is about qualified majority decision-making, but is the Minister prepared to commit to forming a coalition for a blocking minority?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u345	In itself, I think you should always see how you can get what you want, but I'm really going to anticipate the discussion we're having in the Cabinet. I wanted to be transparent to the Chamber about the very serious concerns that there are. In addition, this is only part of the rule of law discussion. Moreover, I also think that you have to take seriously what the Commission has come up with, with the most uncomfortable feeling of course among everyone, including myself, that even if you find the title here sufficient to finally agree, then there is a big problem lying next to you. Of course, that's the big inconvenience. I want to finish that discussion in the Cabinet. Then I will have the Chamber informed at the beginning of next week about how we act in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u346	Finally, Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u347	Good. I've prepared a motion and I'm actually forced to file it now. I believe that the Minister should at least live up to what he has constantly written in the State of the European Union on this subject, namely playing a leading role.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u348	I shall continue with Mrs Karimi's point. It is about the European Commission's decision to release the billions from the Recovery Fund, despite the fact that Poland continues to ignore the rule of law. The Minister says: I have received no signals from other Member States that they intend to vote against. I can taste those words in such a way that he assumes that few or no countries will vote against them. The government itself has not yet taken a decision on this, but the Minister says: even if we voted against it, it would make no material difference. Maybe the material doesn't matter for the outcome, but is it important as a signal that the Netherlands could send?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u349	Absolutely. That's why you're gonna have to consider all those parts. I have very often argued here and also in the House of Representatives that one of the things that I find most uncomfortable about the current state of the European Union is precisely that the rule of law has suffered considerable damage in a number of countries in recent years and that it is very difficult to do something about it. I just wanted to outline the dilemma here. You can say: in substance, we think the wider problem is so big that we want to send a signal. You can, but then you have to realize that you're probably, possibly the only one. I think you should also want to see how you continue the dialogue with the Commission as effectively as possible. In both cases there is something to be said for that. You could argue that that's the most effective thing when you hit the emergency brake here, but you can also say that might make it harder. Each of those parts of that discussion are currently being discussed in the Cabinet. My estimate is that we will definitely make a decision on this on Friday. Then we'll inform the Rooms about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u350	Well, we'll just have to wait and see. We are also waiting for the possible motion from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Still, let's talk about the signal function. In the Commission, it has also made no difference to the material, i.e. to the outcome, that two Commissioners, Timmermans and Vestager, voted against. But perhaps it is important for the discussion that we know now that the Minister says that it is special that it has actually come out that these Commissioners have voted against and that three other Commissioners, who I believe were not present, have expressed their objections in writing, including Commissioner Jourová. This also strengthens those who are concerned about the rule of law in the EU in this debate, which is why my group would also value that signal from the government. The minister said, "I'm not sure why they voted against." I would like to quote Vice President Frans Timmermans, who is always a great friend of my party. He sometimes says sensible things, namely that he disagrees with the way things are going. I quote: "He agrees with the fact that the legal order is being adjusted to the political reality, instead of the other way around." In other words, the legal order is adapted to political reality. In fact, the principle of the rule of law has been violated. This principle, in this case of the Vice-President of the European Commission, should also appeal to this government, which has a high regard for the rule of law of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u351	I'm familiar with that statement. That style figure does not exist in the Dutch cabinet, by the way. In the Dutch cabinet, a single minister cannot say: I voted against, because I totally disagree with it. We don't have that luxury. I also think there is a lot to say about not giving people that luxury, because otherwise, if possible, governing becomes even more complicated. Of course, I fully agree with many of what Mr Apeldoorn and other speakers have said. I think it is only fair to outline the dilemma and also to be honest about what the effect would be if the Netherlands came to the conviction. There are, of course, good arguments why you might have to vote against that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u352	I would like to endorse Mr Van Apeldoorn's words, namely that the fact that you vote against means something and has influence in that sense, even if you do not have a majority. I would like to ask a short question. The Minister says repeatedly now: 'We are going to talk about it in the cabinet and I will let the Chambers know what the decision is'. But doesn't it play a role for the cabinet if, for example, this Chamber gave you the idea that we would be very keen on it if the cabinet voted against it in Europe? Surely this should also play a role in government policy? I'm a little surprised I don't hear the Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u353	The cabinet always has to take account of the dialogue with the Chambers. We all know what state law is like, how the trust rule works, how the cabinet is supposed to deal with motions and what that means for individual directors. I think we agree, especially in this Chamber, with the legal tradition that is common here. Of course, there are also all kinds of MPs who have already expressed their views on this. That too will have to be taken into account by the cabinet. My tendency is to be transparent about everything that's going on. So one of the things that you should also ask yourself is: how will you resume dialogue with the Commission and Poland in the most effective way possible? Is that by voting against? Is that by remembering? Is that by saying yes with an explanation of vote, whether or not with others? Those are all flavors that you have to weigh in this complex matter. We've talked about that a few times. I think we'll definitely lay an egg on that next Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u354	As a short last comment, I would like to make the following. The Minister mentions a number of things that play a part in the decision-making in the cabinet. I assume, however, that you have already said that feeling in the Chambers will also play a major role in the decision of the Cabinet. In any case, I would like to insist on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u355	The cabinet always has to take account of the States-General. I don't want to disappoint anyone, but this file isn't unique.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u356	Which brings us to the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u357	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'll be with Mr Van Apeldoorn again. How can the Council of Europe contribute to peace and security? That is exactly what the Council of Europe has contributed from its role as guardian of human rights, the rule of law and democracy in Europe since its inception. In any case, I believe that dialogue is an essential part of getting back together in the end. Moreover, Mr Van Apeldoorn knows that the dialogue with Russia is not very intensive at the moment, at least not in a formal sense, because Russia is no longer a member. Do I take that as a warning? I think it is very understandable that the Council of Europe has come to the conclusion that there is such an unprecedented gross violation of the basic values that we as the Council of Europe attach to the fact that cooperation is no longer possible at the moment. So I think it is very understandable that the Council of Europe has reached that conclusion. By the way, of course, the same thing as I have said about many other diplomatic initiatives does not apply to Russia. Is it uncomfortable? Possibly. But does it ultimately return Russia to its path? So far, unfortunately, there is no evidence of that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Oomen asked about the Council of Europe and Turkey. She specifically mentioned, and quite rightly, as far as I am concerned, the very sensitive case of Kavala. Indeed, several Member States of the Council of Europe do not always implement ECHR judgments with the same precision. Turkey is one of them. I will raise that subject again tomorrow. The cabinet position is clear in any case. There's just a statement from the ECHR. It has to be carried out. What happened there, but Mrs Oomen knows, is that the matter was referred back to the ECHR on 2 February to assess whether Turkey is indeed violating its obligations. That's where the case is. After the judgment of the court, we will have to look further, but in legal terms all kinds of things really did not go well. Mrs Oomen also asked about Kosovo. The Netherlands recognises Kosovo as an independent country. She knows that, of course. It is not unanimous, by the way. I believe that there are five other countries that do not recognise Kosovo at the moment, but we are in favour of continuing the dialogue with Kosovo. So the stakes remain as they are. We also believe that membership can help Kosovo to strengthen its own rule of law. That is, of course, the ultimate goal. Mr Van Apeldoorn again asked about the ECHR. I would like to refer to my previous reply, because I believe that we have discussed this in four or five interruptions in the debate on the rule of law. Mrs Huizinga asked about migration. The impression of her group was that little progress was made in the area of migration. My impression is that the French Presidency, with a step-by-step approach, is really trying to break that deadlock. I would like to see much more of it myself, by the way. I think you could come to better agreements, which are about the combination of solidarity and reciprocity, which are about the external borders, which are also about matters such as reception in the region. The negotiations are, moreover, still in the run-up to the JHA Council later this week. One or both of the rulers of justice will undoubtedly show themselves on their best side. Mrs Huizinga asked about reception conditions at refugee camps at the borders. I am speaking on behalf of others in the cabinet, but guaranteeing the fundamental rights of migrants is an important priority of the cabinet. At a high level of administration and politics, attention is often drawn to this. Moreover, the Netherlands has been working for years with experts on structural improvements for asylum migrants, including the Greek islands. We also continue to support organisations concerned with refugees and their integration, such as UNHCR and IOM. With regard to Mrs Karimi, who had a similar question, I would like to say that I share her concerns about the coverage. She and/or her colleagues in the Lower House regularly asked about this. We remain committed to this. This is an issue which often arises, in particular, within the Council of Justice. Mrs Karimi asked for a more social and greener Europe. The cabinet was one of the first advocates for the higher climate ambitions in Europe. We are currently in the final phase of Fit for 55 negotiations. Exactly how this is going to end, even given the current crisis, is not yet entirely foreseeable. Of course, security of supply plays a much more important role in the discussion than before. A social Europe, the strengthening of the internal market, must benefit everyone. Unfair competition, for example in terms of working conditions, must be combated. That is why we are in favour of the creation of a so-called European labour market authority. A question from Mrs Huizinga on subsidiarity. I think I have said something about this earlier in this debate, so perhaps I can refer to it again. Mr Van Dijk asked about the 3% and the 60%. I have entered deep into the Minister of Finance's agenda. Mr Van Dijk asked about sustainability. I agree with everyone who says that such rules are always far from perfect, that at the same time you must look at passing on a decent debt to the next generation and that there is still work to be done in this area, especially after corona, in Europe. My belief in this is that it is best to focus on a combination of sustainable economic growth and sustainable public finances. Also in this first area, sustainable economic growth through reforms and through sensible investment in innovation and not just consumption, one can take a very important step. Mrs Oomen asked about increased interest rates. That is exactly one of the subjects that I have repeatedly called for attention to. We are still alive and have certainly lived in a climate of, at least historically, exceptionally low interest rates in recent years. It has not been said at all that this will remain so for a while. The interest rate is still much higher than it was a year ago, but historically it is still very low. No one knows. The experts who have told me for years how they thought it would work out also seem to have been wrong for this year. I don't blame them, but it does require caution. Suppose you thought it was all possible, but you made a mistake. Then, when things get tough and you have to spend more on interest every year, your potential ends up in a very difficult situation. That could be hard. I remember when I was in the First Chamber, we were on the state budget back then, which was much smaller, I believe 6.5 billion expenses in interest. That's less than half now. But of course it has not been said that it will remain so. Mr Otten asked about gas extraction in Groningen. In this respect, I would like to refer to the previous statements made by Mr Jetten. Mrs. Prast asked about the zoonotic pandemic. If Corona has taught us anything, it is that international cooperation is very important. We also support cooperation in the field of pandemic preparedness. Mrs Karimi asked for a long-term vision and for the Commission's work programme. There is no further development of the long-term vision. However, the Commission launched the rural pact in January this year. The aim of this Pact is to mobilise public authorities and stakeholders to respond to the needs and wishes of rural communities. Mrs. Prast asked about meat consumption. I can say that the cabinet is not in favour of EU funding for the promotion and campaigns of agricultural products. The cabinet sees promoting the marketing of agricultural products as a responsibility of the sector itself. I would like to thank Mrs Stienen for complimenting her on her feminist foreign policy. It is good to say again, and I really do understand Mr Koole's question in that regard, that equivalence is something that has been a part of Dutch foreign policy for a long time. Mrs Stienen and Mr Koole were right about that. So it's not suddenly a watershed. At the same time, it is true that this is indeed a dilemma that other governments operate under and that also means the same thing internationally. "Feminist" sometimes has a semi negative connotation in Dutch. Not everyone does, but some do. This is generally different abroad. This means what we have been aiming for for a long time, but what we can do better every day, namely equality. It is not just about equality between men and women, but also between straight, gay and all the colors of the rainbow, and so on. In fact, it is about everything that affects Article 1 of the Constitution. In order to articulate that again, I have thought, even after I had spoken with my colleague in Sweden and France, for example: of course you are not changing the world with just that label, but it is a signal. I think it's important to give that signal. Where we will have to take further steps to implement this, we are going to do so. Mrs Prast asked about the PEPs and terrorist financing. Several evaluations have been carried out. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance recently indicated that after the summer the cabinet will share a full follow-up of the evaluations with the Chamber. Mrs Prast also asked about consumers, meat food and packaging. Then we're not quite in the heart of my portfolio, so with her permission, I'm going to refer her to Minister Staghouwer. Also on matters such as water use and what comes close to production, I think he has a better answer than I do. She also asked whether vegetable milk would be given in the Ministry instead of cow's milk. Then we'll be at the heart of my wallet. The answer is, that's already happening. Plant milk is used on request at Rue Rijnstraat 8. At Terminal Zuid, vegetable milk is the standard and cow's milk on request. Mr. Chairman. Food scarcity is a major and important issue. That was put forward by Mrs Prast and others. The global food crisis caused by the war in Ukraine is mainly due to the increased scarcity of products that should come from Russia or Ukraine. The Commission is currently looking at ways of doing something about this. Turkey is also playing an important role in this and is trying to contribute to the solution. That's very positive. But, of course, it does require that if you were able to create a corridor, the parties involved in the war in this case, it is mainly Russia that accepts those exports. We're not there yet. She also asked if I expected shifts for Europe. No, not that. To be honest, I am not so worried about food supplies for Europe itself, but it is very important for people in already vulnerable areas, including Africa. That's what I'm really worried about. At first, it's about whether they have food. Secondly, the geopolitical question is that if they have deficits, I know exactly who is on the sidewalk and say: we want to help you, but that also has consequences. Mrs Stienen asked about the recovery plan. The first concept was published in March for wider consultations, including in Parliament. There has been a plenary debate in the House of Representatives. The cabinet is now working on a second, final concept. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koole asked for additional funding for civic participation. Only, I can't play that game with him right now. That is the kind of financial business we should really do in budgetary discussions. In doing so, we really should look again at what the added value of this is in terms of content. However, in general terms, I would honestly, with his approval, not want to prejudge the budget in a number of months' time. Then there's the Barker motion. Mrs. Prast and Mrs. Stienen asked about that. We want to do as much justice as possible to that motion. They're looking at what they can do. The first step is the publication of the recent CPB study. The second track is for the long term, namely to understand the social impact of EU policies. We'll share that with the Chamber every time. But certainly that second lasts longer. The motion has therefore been partially carried out. We have not removed it from the agenda, because we will continue to do so. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm a long way. I've got two or three things left. Mrs. Stienen asked about Ihbti. We have a good reputation and we were pioneers. Are we still and are we still paying attention to that? Absolutely. On 3 December the cabinet drafted a letter with the intention of doing so. We are in favour of a strong line on protecting and promoting the use of previously agreed topics. We remain in intensive dialogue with the Commission on this. Moreover, this is another subject which is part of the dialogue on Hungary and Poland, which is also very often affected by Article 1, as I have just said, and thus by orientation, for example. There was another question about poultry farmers from Mrs Prast about import duties. There are no import duties for products from Ukraine as of 4 June. That goes for one year. Competition is expected to remain limited in the short term due to the negative effects of the war. If there were any suspicion of damage to EU market participants due to an influx of eggs, for example, through the suspension of the levy and quotas, then the so-called safeguard clause could be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u358	I hear all this banging. That means you're at the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u359	At least I thought I'd do you a favor by speeding up the rest of the block. This was, as far as I'm concerned, block six.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u360	Thank you. A number of members have chosen to experience this block standing up. In doing so, Mr Otten has clearly shown himself to be a frontrunner and I am now giving him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u361	The Minister mentioned earlier that Mr Van Ballekom had masochistic tendencies and you should almost have them to ask a question here at the end of the block. The Minister closed the case of gas extraction with one sentence: I refer to a letter from Mr Jetten. I think the Minister is in the government Boeing about three times a week. Fine, he has to travel a bit on a level, but then his many colleagues abroad will undoubtedly ask very often: can you not help us with that gas, because this is the biggest energy crisis we have experienced in the EU since time immemorial. I can't imagine the minister never being asked: help, can't you help with that Groningen gas? That is my question to the Minister, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u362	Frankly, that is far less common than Mr Otten might think. It's a lot of domestic stuff. Of course, energy is a broader part of the discussion we are having with each other. But it's rarely or never about Groningen right now. This will probably be different for Jetten, because this often involves specific gas fields, specific LNG capacity and specific imports in which Rotterdam plays a very relevant role. Jetten has always said that, and I understand that very well, given the safety situation of the extraction of gas: only in extreme need, or some other kind of formulation. Given the sensitivity of the subject, I would like to refer to his earlier statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u363	We have, of course, blocks to keep pushing subjects forward and backwards and then we are all going to shift things between ourselves in the cabinet. However, an EU directive on gas storage was immediately adopted. That was one of the first things the EU did after the invasion of Ukraine: a minimum obligation for gas storage. There have all been qualifications for energy. All kinds of things were decided immediately in the European Commission. Germany also receives gas, but is also in huge trouble. Has the German colleague never said: Minister Hoekstra, help us out, even temporarily?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u364	No. I would like to point out that, of course, it is often broader about energy, but that virtually everyone realizes that this problem is so great that the type of gas resources we have, in themselves, would be totally, but totally insufficient to solve just that problem, regardless of the security situation. That is why I am now giving Mr Otten the answer that Mr Jetten has given more often, namely along the following lines. He puts that, I think, more precisely than I do. Given the situation and what a government always has to weigh extremely heavily, namely the security of the people there, the cabinet really wants to exhaust all other options and resources before we get to that discussion. I think that is a sensible line too, so I have wanted to repeat it, and I am sure that it is less attractive and precise than Mr Jetten does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u365	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u366	I note that this cabinet waits until the recession is over and then takes the decisions that could have prevented it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u367	I would like to come back to the Council of Europe. Even though Putin is reluctant to do so, I think it is very good that the Council of Europe was the first treaty organisation to expel Russia from the organisation for gross violations of international law. But I had asked a question in the first term about the Council of Europe which the Minister did not answer. On 20 May, in my view, the Foreign Ministers of the Council of Europe decided, unfortunately, that our own Minister would not have decided, in the short term, to organise a rare summit of the 46 Member States, represented by the Heads of State or Government. My question was: what will be the Dutch Government's commitment to that summit, for example when it comes to strengthening the Council of Europe to make it contribute even more to a more peaceful and safer Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u368	If I really have to answer that exactly, I am going to go back to that in the second term. I have a number of parts of that in my head and I have seen a text on this before, but I am not going to do that for a moment, so I will come back to that in the second term and otherwise in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u369	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u370	That would be very nice. Maybe I can make a move after all. The Minister also mentioned the ECHR, the Human Rights Convention, and the accession of the EU to the Council of Europe ECHR. The Minister then referred to the previous debate, which I believe we held in February. My question would be: has anything not happened since February, since that debate on the EU and on the rule of law and democracy, and could it not be a good thing, for example, for the government to say at that summit that it really is high time that the EU joined the human rights treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u371	No, I admit immediately that it is uncomfortable, but it is an observation we cannot ignore that the speed of decision-making in Europe cannot always keep pace with the meetings of the First Chamber. So I don't have any news on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u372	No, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I think you've already asked three questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u373	I hope that the Minister will come back to that first point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u374	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u375	The Minister put all my questions under the heading of other questions, and I was actually a little surprised. We had a cup of geopolitics. I have referred to the food crisis, and I think that is one of the greatest threats from a geopolitical point of view, and I am not the only one in that and I am not the most important. The UN and you name it, so do you. In this context, I asked for the suspension of import duties and quotas. The poultry competition was also a component, but not the most important. The most important thing was that the goal is to get a larger portion of the food to the Netherlands. That's what worries me. I also understand that when Mr Hoekstra hears the word meat, he thinks: that is not my deal. But that, too, is precisely what I have put in the context of: it is a very inefficient way of feeding mouths and we have a food crisis with its geopolitical consequences. So I would have liked to see it in that context, and in that context I think it is actually on his plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u376	I will confine myself to the further metaphor I am going to add to this debate. But let me start by saying that I really think Mrs Prast is absolutely right that it is a geopolitical issue. I have often noticed from spokesmen that it is considered at all as a kind of degradation of the importance of the questions if they end up in the block. All the cubes are just as sweet to me. But she is also right in her content that this link makes more sense. I just put that in the sorting process, but she's right about that. In itself, of course, the Dutch government wants to look at all kinds of variants to ensure that people are not hungry, but about what is the most effective at that, all experts actually say that it starts with us getting food out but also oil Ukraine and Russia for example, because it is sometimes forgotten that Russia is also a major producer of things that may become scarce. The shipping of that stuff is not gonna work by air or by car, and it's not even gonna work by train. It's got to be over the water. So it has to go out through Odessa in a way. Can the Netherlands play a role in this? Undoubtedly, but an indirect one, so is my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u377	That there is a lot to spoil in Russia and in Ukraine, we know that. Of course, I understand that it is difficult to solve the food problem for the cabinet. But what I have mentioned is that the suspension by the EU of the import levy, especially in the case of imports which are largely food-based, leads to us because we have reduced the tax and not to the poor countries, thus creating an opposite effect to help people so that they do not starve to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u378	That's how I understood Mrs. Prast. What I do not think is at issue in anyone's mind, certainly not in the cabinet, but also in the business community, is why you are doing this, why you are trying to organize that complicated road off that corridor. Diplomaticly, we've been working on it for a long time. Whether it comes under the flag of the WTO or under the flag of the UN, I find, frankly, completely trivial, as long as we get that food from those who are either hungry or about to get it. That is the objective. So I very, very much agree with that. That is also the real commitment of the Minister of LNV, the Minister for BHOS and the other colleagues most involved in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u379	Finally, Mrs Prast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u380	But the Minister is still not explaining why these import levies should be suspended. It doesn't help Ukraine, because demand is already greater than supply, so they can't produce more. And we're sure that if a larger part of it goes to us, it doesn't go to poor countries. I'll leave it at that, but I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u381	I am quite satisfied if the Minister answers my question at the other block. It was not about grain imports from Ukraine but about grain exports. I pointed out that to the Minister. I asked for that. It is a race against the clock to bring grain from Ukraine to the hunger regions in Africa and Asia. In fact, the Minister has just mentioned this in part in her reply to Mrs Prast. Thank you for that. But can he tell us what possibilities he sees for this in the short term, also in view of the United Nations' appeal and recently by the Pope not to use famine as a weapon of war? What can the EU do? That is not a small power in the world, and certainly not in Europe. What can the EU do in the short term to find a way out at diplomatic level?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u382	The EU can help with what I just described. Given the huge amount of food there's only one way to get that stuff out of the country. They're huge amounts. This is really a bulk product. This is what the Rotterdam harbour calls "dry bulk." So we've got to do that with these huge container ships. You really can't run into it. Then you're gonna have to defuse that harbor. It's got mines in it. You have to sail through that in a sensible way. And all that can only happen if you are not under fire in a literal sense. So you will not only have the support of the Ukrainians, they are, in my opinion, very willing to do so, but also have the support of the Russians. You're gonna have to make agreements on how to do that. The Turks are working hard on that. The European Union may well be able to help in practical terms, for example by making ships available. But it's just a question of whether there's a need for that. The most important thing is that we first agree diplomatically. You have to create that, without going along with what the Russians have been saying: we want to do that, but then we don't want any more sanctions. And we're gonna skip that kind of blackmail.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u383	Thank you for this clear answer. Last week, as I said, I spoke bilaterally with the Minister for Development Cooperation, and also earlier on an acquaintance, months ago, even before this whole problem arose. You could see that the Russians were going to use the blockade of grain exports, regardless of the weapon clatter. Could the Minister, together with his colleague, the Minister for Development, tell us, perhaps in a few weeks' time but hopefully sooner, whether and what progress has been made?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u384	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u385	Here's what I'm suggesting. I would ask the Minister for BuHa-OS to explain this as soon as there is a solution. Otherwise it's going to be a bit of a stand-up based on the newspaper. Because what's confidential, she can't share. And what's not confidential, we all read in the papers. Let's do this. Then we get an overview of what the solution looks like as soon as it is achieved. Is that what?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u386	I understand that this is a commitment from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u387	Without further ado; gold bordered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u388	I had pointed out in my term that after quite some time, the EU has a special envoy for religious freedom again. My question to the Minister is: how is he going to actively seek out the conversation with this envoy to make the fight against religious persecution and persecution of Christians and other believers a serious priority, including the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u389	Through all kinds of contacts that we have on this type of topic. Of course, we have our own emissaries. They often have contact with each other. But also official and political contacts are very often made on these kinds of subjects that are very relevant to the Netherlands. So that's what's happening. I think it's good that there is, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u390	Is the Court also regularly kept informed of progress in this area? Can you say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u391	Then I would have to report to one specific envoy on how often they talk about it. Then we're about to report that about everyone. In my view, it is important that we wholeheartedly support this type of initiative. We ourselves are a country that has a long tradition of defending religious freedom. We also have people with that expertise that we actively use from the Ministry. They often also have this type of contact and see how to join forces. I am quite prepared to give this more insight on occasion in a debate or in a round of questions, but I am also a little afraid that we are going to find out how many times we have spoken to someone like that. I think we should enable those who do the work to do it as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u392	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u393	Thank you, at least, for pointing out that this is an important priority for him too. A completely different point. I asked two more questions about Israel. One question was about the EU-Israel Association Agreement and its modernisation. It's been waiting a long time. There's still a Lower House motion that I don't think has been performed. And how does the EU deal with Iraq, which has opened the possibility of imposing the death penalty on those who seek to normalise relations with Israel? What does the EU do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u394	I shall return to those two questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u395	It may have escaped my attention, but I believe that the answer to my questions on the cabinet position on a European army was missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u396	I thought I solved that by saying that that really is the primacy of NATO. A motion is tabled almost weekly in the Lower House by Mr Van Haga in which he states that he is against a European army. Without exception, the Minister of Defence has said that this is also the cabinet position. I'd like to repeat that here. The cabinet is not in favour of a European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u397	Apologies. It has escaped my attention that this was also about the European army. All I got was the NATO part. Thanks again for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u398	I had asked the Minister about the 55% target on CO reduction. The question was whether that percentage of 55% was regardless of population growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u399	The percentages agreed in the government agreement, but also in Europe, are percentages in which you should bring all the pluses and minuses yourself. Of course, you don't suddenly have to get a higher percentage if the population would shrink.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u400	I was surprised to hear a stronger economy and a greener Europe under the heading of other, but well, so be it. I actually have one question on the directive in the agreement reached between the European Parliament and the Council on the minimum wage last night, or indeed last night. When can we expect the government to translate into national law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u401	Pooh, I really should check with the Minister of SZW on how fast that goes. I might be able to say something about it. Those are not things that are arranged within a few days, far from it. We follow the normal course of course. The Minister of SZW will no doubt at any time inform the House of Representatives about this. If I can say one more sentence about it, I'll do it in second term. But it may also be that this is just it. Then I ask Mrs Karimi for clemency. This is, of course, hot off the needle. Then it will be transposed into legislation. Then you come in the normal course with the Council of State, Second and First Chamber. Such a trajectory often lasts for a year or two. I have no idea if that can be faster or longer here. In an average legislative process from beginning to end, until it's in the Official Journal, you're going on for about one and a half to two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u402	I realize that, but it would be very nice if, for example, we could get information on how the government sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u403	I'm gonna go see if I can say anything about it in the second term. If that works, I'll take it for granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u404	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the government. Then, on request, I'm going to suspend briefly to 21.20 hours for a recuperation intermezzo.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u405	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In my speech this morning, I emphasized the Minister's ambition in terms of European policy: to play a leading role, which would be appropriate and necessary. I have expressed the full support of GroenLinks for this. Unfortunately, during the answer, I have heard too many procedural answers or phrases like "our fitting modesty" and "yes, we are going to look at it with open eyes," for example, at Ukraine's candidacy. I would like to say that, unfortunately, this ambition has not been fulfilled. Especially when it comes to the rule of law, we believe that it is absolutely no time to make any compromises, especially at this time. Too often we have been confronted with the situation that countries such as Hungary and Poland have taken the whole of the European Union hostage. As I said this morning, it is very important for the credibility of the European Union that we take the rule of law seriously. In order to help the Minister, as Mrs Huizinga said, 'take the feelings of this Chamber well' when he sits in the Trêveszaal on Friday to decide on the situation with Poland, I shall table the next motion. The: Mr Karimi, Mr Koole, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Prast proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Polish Government systematically undermines the independence of the judiciary;]] [[noting that the European Commission has decided to accept Poland's recovery plan to receive funds from the Recovery and Ferry Facility;]] [[noting that the Polish recovery plan does not provide for the full implementation of the rulings of the European Court of Justice to ensure the rule of law;]] [[considers that it is undesirable to allocate EUR 35.4 billion from the facility to Poland before Poland has fully complied with these rulings;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the implementing decision in the Council, to actively form a coalition with other Member States in order to block the implementing decision and to urge the European Commission to fully respect the Court's decisions as a condition for the approval of the Polish recovery plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35982-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u407	Mr. Chairman. The Minister was right to defend majority decision-making in the field of foreign policy. I am very pleased with that. What I do not think has become clear is what part of the majority decision-making process in the field of foreign policy requires a change in the Treaty. I would be grateful if the Minister would answer that question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u408	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u409	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I have noted with some concern his answer to my question, but also that of other groups, including those of GroenLinks, about the diplomatic trail so desperately needed in the war in Ukraine. I thought the minister was a little defeatist. He seems to conclude that for the time being he no longer sees a chance for a diplomatic solution, a perspective for international diplomacy. The Minister says: Russia has apparently concluded that it has no interest in a cease-fire. Then you could also argue that Ukraine might have an interest in this. Perhaps it is not so much a question of calling for a ceasefire for Ukraine, but of moving Russia to do so. Several initiatives have been taken and the Minister has not really addressed them. On behalf of my group, I say that we cannot and must not give up hope of a diplomatic solution. Let me comment on the debate on strengthening the democratic content of the EU, including in the context of the Conference on the Future of Europe. In any case, I welcome the fact that, when it comes to bringing the EU closer to the citizens, the Minister agrees with me and acknowledges that respect for the principle of subsidiarity is more relevant than the introduction of the spitzencandidate system. We then agree that this was an omission in the State of the European Union. In any case, as far as my group is concerned, it is necessary to continue thinking about strengthening the role of national parliaments in the European decision-making process. You should be more able to hang on to the brakes, more opt-outs, for example when it comes to the internal market, which is now often a straitjacket and a one size fits all. I look forward to answering my questions on the Council of Europe in the second term. I'll get back to you on that. Finally, like other groups, I would like to give the Minister my support for this motion in order to give serious consideration to the Commission's decision on releasing the billions of the Recovery Fund for Poland and thus to send that important signal to Poland next Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u410	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I now give the floor to Mrs Prast, on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u411	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I thought it was very short. The answer to my questions was also incomplete. I had asked questions about the fact that the European Court of Auditors finds that one third of the expenditure claimed by the European Commission to spend on climate policy is climate-relevant and that the methodology is unreliable. I am now tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. I asked the Minister to argue in Brussels that this methodology should be improved. I'll read the motion. The: Mr Prast, Mr Koffeman, Mr Nicolaï and Mr Karimi tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas citizens are entitled to fair information, including from public authorities;]] [[whereas the European Court of Auditors notes that one third of the expenditure claimed by the European Commission to spend on climate policy is climate-irrelevant and that the methodology is unreliable;]] [[calls on the Minister in Brussels to call for this methodology to be improved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35982-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u412	Mr. Chairman. Then a second motion. It's about the suspension of import duties. I have argued that the argument that we are also helping Ukraine by suspending import duties is not correct. After all, there is already too much of a question. The offer cannot be delivered, so the suspension of import duties is only intended for Dutch importers and to get more of the scarce food to the Netherlands, while we are facing a threatening food crisis. Hence this second motion. The: Mr Prast, Mr Koffeman and Mr Nicolaï tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas suspension of import duties on Ukrainian food products is detrimental to non-EU countries suffering from food scarcity;]] [[Whereas Ukraine does not suffer from a demand shortage;]] [[calls on the Minister to do what he can to reverse the suspension of import duties on products from Ukraine,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35982-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u414	Thank you, Mrs. Prast. I call Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions, but a few remained. Since I have four minutes left in second term, I would like to use them to bring them to the attention of the Minister once more. The first question concerns subsidiarity. The minister said to me: I talked about it for a moment. And: I assume that is sufficient answer to this question. But I would like the Minister to really answer my question again. I said that on paper subsidiarity is more clear than in practice, that it is often a quest for my group and that we have the idea that this concept should be reconsidered, including by the cabinet, for example. I would like an answer to that. The second question was the one you just referred to, namely the interview with Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, who warns about the future of NATO after 2024, when there may be another power change in the White House. He believed that, apart from developments within NATO, Europe should have the willingness to act independently. I do not know whether he is talking about a European army or whether he sees it differently, but I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of this statement by his party colleague. Then there is a third question to which I have not heard the answer. The Minister writes in the State of the Union that he sees a role for the Netherlands as one of the six founders in the necessary strengthening of the Union. My question was: why is it important that the Netherlands is one of the six founders? How can that strengthen our role? And what measures can be taken to strengthen transparency and democracy? That last question has been addressed by the Minister, but I would like to answer the first question why it is so important that the Netherlands is one of the six founders. Mr. Chairman. With these three questions, I'd like to leave it at that. I would like to thank the Minister in advance for his reply. I still have a minute and a half left.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u416	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. Mrs Oomen-Ruijten has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u417	Mr. Chairman. We had a very broad discussion today. The Minister has given indefatigable answers, for which he pays tribute. I also understand the fact that he did not want or could not anticipate discussions such as those in the cabinet on a number of points. I would like to mention a few of them: the Growth and Stability Pact, the effect of interest rates, which he mentioned, but not the effect on a number of Member States, but he does not need to do so now, and the consequences of the joint letter from Spain and the Netherlands, which surprised me, but which in any case is there. That hasn't been addressed yet. What I'm still worried about is this. I have said that enlargement can only be achieved if there is a deepening. We discussed the consequences of enlargement with Ukraine and a number of other countries. Then we still have a number of Member States in the waiting room and we still have a number of Member States that are not yet in the waiting room. If I put all that together, there'll be at least ten of them. What are you supposed to do? You have to ensure that everything related to accession is well maintained, as well as all the principles, the Copenhagen criteria. In that the Minister reassured me. That's one. Two. I always want to do Mr Ballekom a favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u418	From Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u419	Yes. He's very attached to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u420	Then you must first pronounce his last name well. His name is Ván Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u421	Yeah, sorry. I think it's very nice of you to stand up for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u422	Then you've done him the first favor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u423	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not gonna go away from my time. Mr. Chairman. We also have Member States that do not do what we expect them to do. Poland is of course mentioned, but certainly also the corrupt Hungary, where EU funds are used to keep the regime in power. I think, and that is why I said something about Mr Ballekom. I mean Mr Van Ballekom. Article 7 cannot be changed with some sort of passerelle. Mr. Chairman. I understand that we are looking closely at the decision-making processes, including in the context of enlargement, that it is becoming simpler, that we are having a debate on the vetos and that there is much that can be done without a treaty. I am counting on the discussion you have in the cabinet this week to look very closely at what is easy to achieve and what is necessary for a treaty change. Mr President, that was it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u424	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. Mr Van Dijk has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u425	Do I have the floor, Mr. Chairman? Yeah? Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u426	Your clock's running already.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u427	It's already running! I'm gonna get on with it. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In general terms, the SGP states that European cooperation is excellent, but not a step towards an EU superstate. As far as we are concerned, the desired model of cooperation does not include the abolition of the right of veto. As far as I was concerned about its value, I was convinced by the Minister when he talked about its preventive effect. I thought: yes, that is why we should keep and continue to guarantee such a right of veto. The Minister devoted a number of enthusiastic words to feminist foreign policy. I would venture to make a few comments on this very carefully. When it comes to looking for the very best for women and girls, especially as regards combating violence, discrimination, discrimination and so on, I say: we are very much in favour. Who would be against that? That is why I am asking for it to be accompanied by a sort of coercion of our secular values, for example when it comes to our liberal abortion policy, or our typically secular views on marriage, sexuality and so on. That wouldn't be the same thing, would it? My question is specific: how do we respect the countries that are simply in it differently and still have a lot of things to do with religion and that sort of thing? They therefore look very differently at unborn life or sexuality and so on. I would also like to thank the Minister for his warm words about the EU envoy for freedom of religion. He's looking for the conversation with that. The fight against persecution of faith is an important spearhead in this respect. Many millions of people are affected by this. This is therefore highly recommended. Finally, I look forward to the answers on the EU-Israel Association Agreement and on the issue of Iraq and Israel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u428	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mrs Nanninga from the Nanninga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have 12 minutes and 30 seconds, completed 13 minutes. No, I'll spare you, because it's late. My first term was short. There's a reason. You can talk about anything in this kind of broad policy debates, but many members of your office are picking up points, asking questions, and then there's an answer to that. I'll take that with me, as it were. I don't have to do all that again. That saves everyone time. Besides, I like to focus. The focus of my speech was on the right of veto. I asked serious questions. I always thank the govern ment, in this case Mr Hoekstra, for the answer, but that does not mean that I am satisfied with that. What does the case want? We are talking about the right of veto. This has actually been set up to give smaller countries or countries with minority views a little protection against countries that always vote for or against something, to push their own national sound on the course of the huge oil tanker that is the Union. It is the beautiful democratic principle of protecting the minority from the tyranny of the majority. You're giving that away now. The Minister has said openly: that right of veto, we should get rid of it. The Netherlands is a very small country, so it gives you protection. The fact that this is then eliminated in the reply actually calls for a reflection. That is what I am asking explicitly. I think Minister Hoekstra knew that too, as my whole speech was just about that. That's not for nothing. I'm not just asking for myself. I am also asking for a lot of Dutch people who are very worried about the sovereignty of the Netherlands within the Union. I would like that to be taken a little more seriously, that it was also answered a little more seriously and that it should not be done with a minor in a very long answer and then, when I specifically ask for it, with a little bit of a silly word game. Because what the minister is actually saying is: "Every country that joined the Union received a golden key that gives access to all rooms. We'd better get rid of that. We'd rather have a silver key. Then you get a little less room access, but sometimes you get rooms that we also like." The Minister then tries to sell it: it is actually as good or perhaps even better. I would like to pass on my saved speaking time to the Minister in a transferable way, so that he can take a little longer to reflect on that. I find giving up the right of veto worrying. I think that many people in the Netherlands find that very worrying and that it also undermines the EU's support. As far as I am concerned, that cannot be undermined enough, but that cannot be the intention of the Minister. It also affects the confidence that Dutch people have in politics in general, but of course already in Brussels in terms of far-from-your-bed show. If we, as a very small country, are to contribute a great deal of net, whatever was mentioned here, then that deserves a more detailed reflection. I have nine minutes and 50 seconds left on the clock. I'd say take it away in the answer with those 9 minutes and 50 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u430	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I will certainly consider whether or not I am going to give those minutes to the Minister. I call Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u431	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. It's a separate debate. In all contributions, the war in Ukraine came along, a terrible war. Everyone has expressed their disgust at this, and I think that is right. Russia as an aggressor shows what it shows and that is terrible. I am glad that we are genuinely united in our rejection of this. On a number of points this sometimes brings with it a struggle. What exactly do you have to do? Should you call for a truce or not? I welcome the Minister's reply. It's hard enough, but we talked about it anyway. The application status is one of those struggles. Try to send that signal, but then keep in mind that Ukraine, if it ever joins the European Union, will fully meet the Copenhagen criteria. In any case, I have not heard the Minister exclude that application status, but that debate has yet to come. A question from my first term had not yet been answered. I was talking about Europe's ambivalent attitude towards China and, above all, China's activities in Europe. I mentioned the port of Piraeus and its influence in other countries. Is it not necessary to have a more consistent and well-thought-out European Union policy towards China? In any case, I hope that, as I indicated in my first term, the Minister and the Cabinet will take into account the consequences of the war in their own country, namely higher food and energy prices, and that they will not be at the expense of the wallet of those who are barely able to make ends meet. With regard to the rule of law, we would very much like to support the Green Left motion calling for a vote against making the billions from the Recovery Fund available now, because Poland has not yet met the demands contained in the ruling of the European Court of Justice. Finally. I have said that I would like to involve the citizens in Europe. The Minister replied and gave some loose examples. I will stick to my call for a multi-annual plan. This should not be a government propaganda, but should be about informing a broad public about Europe, along with a plan and resources. He said it should be in the budget. I would like to respond to that by means of a motion, which I would now like to propose. The: Mr Koole, Mr Karimi, Mr Stienen, Mr Huizinga-Heringa and Mr Van Apeldoorn proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government sees it as its task "to involve citizens in the European Union by informing them, actively listening to what the Union's citizens expect and creating acceptance";]] [[Whereas this "creation of support" can only succeed sustainably if citizens are informed in a balanced manner about both the "pros" and the "cons" of European cooperation;]] [[noting that the Government also considers that a public debate on the European Union calls for a continuous effort;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a multi-annual plan with the corresponding means to actively and balancedly inform the Dutch citizens about the European Union and the ambition of the Netherlands in doing so, and to inform the Court of Justice at the same time as sending the Foreign Affairs budget for 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35982-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u432	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. We would hear from the Minister when the Netherlands had last exercised the right of veto. I honestly don't remember, but apparently the Minister doesn't either. However, it is important to have a veto. The Minister said it himself and others have also recalled it: it still gives a stick behind the door to use your influence. Unfortunately, the Netherlands has not always used this effectively, I think, for example, with the Corona Restoration Fund, where eventually they went down their knees too quickly, but that aside. I heard a number of speakers say that we are a small country. I think that we are not a small but medium-sized country, especially given what we all contribute to the EU, not only financially, but also in terms of credit rating and so on. We are, after all, a crucial country for the euro. I would like to call on everyone not to always describe us as a small country and not to always make ourselves needlessly small. Whatever we're not small in is in our gas supply. That is also what I mentioned this morning in the first term. Russia's aggressive invasion of Ukraine has brought with it a huge, unprecedented energy emergency. The Netherlands could temporarily offer a solution until we have used other sources of energy. On the very day when the Mines Council comes up with a very urgent and alarming advice to take a serious look at it, I would like to call on the Minister in this context to act on this European solidarity in the field of energy, but also so that we, as a country, can benefit from it. Then we will get something back from the EU, because we have, of course, put a lot of money into it over the last decade. So that would be our appeal to the Minister. We still like to hear when the Netherlands used the veto for the last time. We don't have any motions or anything like that. We thank the Minister for the extensive discussion and response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u433	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr Van Rooijen has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u434	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I am particularly grateful to the Minister for starting his first term in response to my remark that it was 78 years ago yesterday that the Allies landed on the beaches of Normandy. I mentioned this because there has been far too much war violence in the continent of Europe. So that we don't forget, and I certainly don't as a child of war. Mr. Chairman. My group continues to believe that the right of veto of our country should be preserved in the context of the preservation of sovereignty. Finally. I have looked at our vision of Europe in detail. The Minister, of course, referred, I would say, also to documents which are all the basis of this debate. Of course, I know him, too. I understand that the Minister did not go into this in detail, but I would like to ask him to take note of our view. Mr Koole has just pointed out, and also in the first place, that Europe's support is really based on the support of its citizens and on confidence in the European rule of law, and that Europe should not be a project for politicians and officials who see it as their main task to impose obligations. Perhaps the Minister would like to respond briefly. I am pleased that the Minister has agreed to return to maximising exports of grain from Ukraine to Asia and Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u435	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mrs Stienen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u436	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, and certainly thank all the officials here in the House and on the Rijnstraat, because they have, of course, worked very hard on it. I would also like to thank the Minister for a realistic story on how the European Union can be a city on a mountain that everyone can see in this dark and difficult time, with a war on our continent. The Bible fasts among us have recognized this as Matthew 5, verse 14, a text that is often used in the United States, but which I actually think fit very well with the light that Europe was for my parents, the generation after the Second World War. I hope that this can also be the light for our generation and the generation of our children, whether in Ukraine or here in the Netherlands. A light shining for freedom, for security and for civilisation. My group also understands that in the multitude of subjects and questions, hundreds, questions on feminist foreign policy and on the commitment to lhbti-persons came to the headline. Thank you for reassuring me that that does not mean "the bin," but simply "very important." Yet we were not entirely satisfied with the summary: we already do a lot. We would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he would like to address my group's specific questions about the commitment of the Netherlands within the EU to feminist foreign policy and the commitment for lhbti, including when it comes to the implementation of Human Resources and Human Resources. We would very much appreciate it if the Minister could send us a letter on this, preferably before the summer. Then I'll finish. The Istanbul Convention on the cessation of violence against women contains a fine article, Article 12.4 on the role of men and boys in combating violence against women. I am glad that the Minister calls himself feminist in interviews and that he is so committed to it. I hope that tomorrow he will urge his interlocutors in Turkey to stop the withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention immediately and, if he is still working in the EU environment, to encourage all countries that have not yet signed and ratified that Convention to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u437	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I call Mr Van Ballekom on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u438	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers. I would like to make five brief points. The government continues to act vigorously to protect democratic and constitutional values. That is literally in the State of the Union. I must say this, but the Minister speaks with a great deal of flour in his mouth when it comes to the Corona Restoration Funds and their release by the European Union. This can only send a signal, because I do not know if there are any Member States still voting against it. But Minister, that signal is also very important in the end. Mrs. Stienen says I've left the service. I may have left the service longer, but the instructions are still the same. You must join the qualified majority. That's what I call soft-hearted rather than forceful action. I hope that the Minister will support the suggestions made by Mrs Karimi in the motion. The second point, Mr President. The Minister does not wish to link Article 7 with future enlargements. The VVD insists on this, not to point fingers, but to protect the EU. Without proper procedures in this area, this will ultimately mean the end of the European Union. For that, the European Union is too dear to the VVD. It also reminds me of the United Kingdom's tactic to admit something and everyone unconditioned to the European Union. Ukraine, Turkey, everyone was invited. What was the United Kingdom's objective? To make it as effective an organization as the United Nations. We fit for that, because then a lot will be lost. A third topic, Mr President. The VVD clearly invited the Minister to fully endorse the passages in the State of the Union. It states that there will be no Social Climate Fund, because Fit for 55 is not necessary, no modernisation fund, and no adjustment of the MFF and the Own Resources Decision. We asked to confirm that, because that would be a great pleasure for our party. We're still waiting for that. To reassure many, including Mrs Nanninga, the VVD remains in favour of maintaining unanimity. I think that's better than vetoing. "Veto" is so negative; "unanimity" is a more beautiful word. Especially in the area of treaty changes, including accessions, own resources and taxes. Especially on that last point, because there are more countries that are asking for money than they are giving money. Then we always have to watch our backs. Mr President, finally, the fifth point: the association agreement with Ukraine. I may have misunderstood the Minister in his reply, because he said: we can think of association agreements. Trade and association agreements already exist. That wasn't my question either. My question was: can we extend these association and trade agreements in such a way as to maximise Ukraine's benefits? That was my question. I would also like an answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u439	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u440	Mr. Ván Ballekom talks about unanimity. He's in favour of that. But then my question is whether his Prime Minister knows that too. Is he also convinced that he is in favour of unanimity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u441	I do not always ask the Prime Minister to express my position here, Mrs Faber, but I will ask him next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u442	So I may conclude a little bit that you are a bit freewheeling here, I ask you through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u443	No, I'm not. The VVD has always stood for unanimity in the field of taxation and in the area of treaty changes, including ratification of accessions. I am not aware that that position has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u444	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u445	I must say that I find it a little special. We have Mr. Van Ballekom here, who is in favour of unanimity. The Prime Minister is about to throw the unanimity overboard. Yeah, well, then the question is, who's telling the truth here? Is that Mr. Van Ballekom or is that the Prime Minister? Now I have to say that, looking at the past, I do see the advantage going to Mr. Van Ballekom. I believe him before the Prime Minister. But I'm starting to get a little confused, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u446	I do not think there is any light between what the Prime Minister thinks on this point and Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u447	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? Yes, that's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u448	Mr President, thank you, and thank you again to Members for the breadth and depth of the exchange of views. I shall begin by answering a number of questions from the first term, which were at least left to the minds of the speakers. Then we'll follow up on some of the things that came up in the second term. I will, of course, join the motions after that. I'm going to do a combination of things that have been explicitly asked and the speakers coming by, because then I'm sure I've had all the different cases. I shall begin with a few things that had clearly remained in place at the end of the first term. I had failed Mrs Huizinga not once, but twice. I had already promised to reflect on the comments of Jaap de Hoop Scheffer. I think I have also made it clear to Mrs Nanninga how the cabinet looks at a European army. But the more fundamental point that De Hoop Scheffer made, which I think Mrs Huizinga also asked for and what I agree with, is that you should at least take into account in the Netherlands and in Europe that the renewed attention of the United States to Europe is not perpetual. For all those who have been following American politics for a long time, it has been clear that they are increasingly orienting themselves towards what is the West for them and are becoming more and more concerned about geopolitics. I am truly glorified by the renewed attention, in any case in full width, but also by this war, by the Biden government for Europe and for NATO. That's all good news. But if you compare the world of today with that of 40 or 50 years ago and then you try to move into the American perspective, then it is logical that one looks not only at one's own East but also at one's own West. That trend will continue is my expectation. Does that mean that we are at our disposal? No, absolutely not. The transatlantic bond is extremely strong. My conviction is that it is also felt very strongly in America, by the way, by members of both parties. But that does not alter the fact that America is also facing challenges, for example in the South China Sea and wider in the Indo-Pacific. That will therefore continue to call for attention. I agree that you have to anticipate this, even under a government that is deeply committed to Europe. I hope that with this somewhat detailed answer I fully responded to her earlier question. Mr Van Dijk asked about Iraq and the death penalty. He's right to ask that. Both bilaterally and multilaterally, we are calling for attention to be paid to Iraq, because we are fundamentally opposed to the death penalty. I believe it is Article 120 of the Constitution, but let me say that for a moment. I will shortly address in writing the questions of Van der Staaij, De Roon and Eppink on the death penalty and the various details on which they are still asking for a reflection from the cabinet. Mr Van Dijk asked about the EU Association Council. We in the Netherlands are in favour of this. We continue to call for this at European level. It is true that there is no agreement at the moment. Where we see an opportunity to move things, we will actively work on them. We are also very much in dialogue with our partners France and Germany. Mr. Chairman. Then I owed Mr Van Apeldoorn an answer on the Council of Europe. He actually asked for two things. He asked about the stakes at a possible summit. You could say it's a hypothetical question. Let me begin by saying that, as the Netherlands, we can really imagine such a summit coming. I can see that Mr Kox is being consulted, but my understanding is that the organisation of a summit has been the subject of discussion for about ten years. I see Mr. Kox shaking his head, so I'm going to be corrected. If such a summit were to come, we would be there for it. Then we are going to work for pressure on Member States that are negotiating with human rights and implementing all the elements related to democracy, human rights and everything that is contained in Article 1 and wider in the Constitution. This is, of course, also about violations of human rights. That is what I wanted to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u449	Briefly, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u450	Very briefly, the chairman asks, and I will. I think it was decided on 20 May in Turin that such a summit would be held. I don't know exactly when, but it's not entirely hypothetical, I guess. I'm glad the Minister's thinking about the stakes. I would like to add the point of the ECHR to keep it high on the agenda. Even if it takes more time than the First Chamber would like, it remains important for my group that it remains an integral part of the commitment of the Dutch Government within the Council of Europe and also within the EU to ensure that the EU accedes to the Human Rights Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u451	I would like to look at that, by the way, with the comment I made last time. I really do see the importance of it. It is good to hear that Mr Van Apeldoorn is even more optimistic about the exact conclusions than I was told. Let's just hope it happens. That'd be great. I believe that we are in complete agreement on the added value of a possible summit. Mrs Karimi asked what this treaty change was for. To this I can say that the Treaty allows for the use of QMV rather than unanimity almost across the whole of the CFSP. This is also explained in Article 31 of the EU Treaty. It also stipulates that the clauses cannot be used for decisions having military or defence implications. That's what I wanted to say in her direction. I had given her an answer about the minimum wage and the term. I've checked that, but when it comes to implementation, you have to think about what I just described. Mr Koole was quite right to ask, because I somehow lost it in the first term to China and he specifically quoted Piraeus. That's something I've been surprised about before. I cannot escape the impression that, throughout the dynamics that started at the time, geopolitics had to fall short in the financial and economic negotiations, apart from the fact that there are different schools or thought about how essential that Chinese interest is in that port, but it is there and it is coming back on a continuous basis. I really recognize Mr Koole's point. Fortunately, what you see more widely is that Member States of the Union are much more aware of the shadows of China's operations in the Union. This is the case, but I also mentioned the case with Lithuania. It is also about matters relating to espionage and concerns about who comes here under what pretexts. Fortunately, more balance has been struck in China's appreciation as a player. On the one hand, it is self-evident, logical to trade with it, but there is really much more to be said about it. You can also see this in the document that the cabinet made two years ago, I believe, at the request of the House of Representatives, the so-called China strategy, so you can see that that image has been tilting in the Netherlands for a long time, but fortunately you can also see that in other countries. My guess is that we are really not at the end of the song and that reorientation will continue. Mr Koole also asked where the EU is different from the United States. Mr Koole has undoubtedly also read Mr Blinken's speech. I thought that was an excellent speech, but it has three anchors that are slightly different from the anchors of the European Union. I believe that we have expressed the combination of partner, economic competitor and system rival in an unwise way. At the same time, I think that Blinken's speech has a lot of nuances that are very similar to European nuances. This was also less sharp than some commentators might have expected. In this you can only read much more clearly that America, much more than the European Union, is also a player in the Indo-Pacific. Moreover, Europe is not active there; at the very beginning of the war in Ukraine we happened to sit together in Paris to talk to a number of countries in the region about how Europe can also ensure stability there. But America is, of course, a geopolitical and also a military player of great importance and is therefore much more prominently present there. You can actually read that in Blinken's statement. Again, I found them really well layered and sensible. Mr Koole also asked, quite rightly, about the terrible reports of human rights violations. That must also be part of that dialogue. This means that the European Union should raise this issue, but also that the Prime Minister and I should mention it in the bilateral talks, even though that is sometimes a complicated message, which you can taste as if it does not automatically fall into fertile soil. But that doesn't change the fact that we have to keep doing that. Then Mrs Huizinga asked about subsidiarity. I would like to say on this point that perhaps I have failed to do so in its direction, namely that these two principles, subsidiarity and proportionality, are guiding principles in European legislation and regulation, and that we have been committed for years to genuinely strict application. I remember from the time I was sitting here myself, but I can see that now when I see these BNC-fiches coming along, which is also given a lot of attention to these two issues. As far as subsidiarity is concerned, this has been done again in the first period I was in the First Chamber. Then there was such a so-called subsidiarity exercise: what do we all mean by that? In my opinion, we are also much more detailed about this by means of these BNC-fiches. This is a system that is far from all the Member States, and we explicitly include both chambers in our weighting. Of course, the Chamber may deviate from that again, but my impression is quite frankly that that system is working and that this appreciation is really shared with the Chamber precisely in relation to those two parts of the Netherlands, which are so important to the Netherlands, without ignoring them. Then Mrs Huizinga asked about the importance of the fact that the Netherlands is one of those six founders. That's a fair question. In itself, of course, that may not be material, because it is about the here and now. It's interesting, though, that it comes by all the time. So very often, in conversations with me, countries link a particular subject to "you are one of the founders." In the informal sense, therefore, the somewhat newer Member States, the newest group of Member States, certainly attach some importance to this. How does that translate in practice? I can't put that in a number, and I also understand why you write that down. That feedback, criticism, I take it. But it is interesting to see that this often comes along as point nebenbei, not with the first group and not with the group of, for example, Spain and Portugal, but with the countries that are shorter. Mr. Chairman. I had ended the first term with the clear impression that I had said a lot about the right of veto and the balance. On repeated occasions and by Mrs Nanninga, I have just understood that it did not come close to good enough. So I'm a little puzzled about how to solve that, but maybe I should say the following about it. First of all, the debate on the use of the veto was already conducted in a very detailed way in 2019, also with the Dutch Parliament. This was also the result of a report by Clingendael on our diplomacy and what is effective. At that time, the Chamber also asked for an overview of the use of the veto. Then Minister Blok indicated that giving such a sec overview is actually not possible, precisely because of the point Van Rooijen made earlier: having the veto means that you do not commit it very often. I myself gave that example of Hungary last week. This is very often the case in practice. I am going to say a few words in the direction of Mr Otten, but this is a piece of history. The debate often continues in the Union until either something has died or unanimity has been achieved at a lower point. Of course, Hungary has been the same in recent weeks. What I would like to say again, which was not a misunderstanding between Mrs Nanninga and me in the first term, is the following. When you don't have a veto, of course, you always run the risk of being overvoted. There's no misunderstanding about that. Take Hungary's example. If that veto had no longer existed, my firm conviction is that Hungary would have been outvoted in that situation. If the Netherlands had been in Hungary's position, we would have been overvoted in that case. So that's the loss of a cure? Absolutely, I didn't want to do anything about that. However, I have wished to argue that there is another side to it, namely that the profit in the implementation of policies can actually come to your own. That had occurred in that Hungarian case. For example, I can come up with a number of examples, such as human rights violations and sanctions where the Netherlands is often on the side of the medal where you would like to do more and other countries oppose it. So I think there is something to win in a material sense, but in a formal sense, of course, if you take something out of your toolbox, you can't use it anymore and so you can be overvoted. Again, this is specifically about a part of the policy that affects foreign countries. So this is not about matters that affect defence, nor is it about taxation and about matters that relate to the SGP that now requires unanimity and a lot of other things. This is really about foreign policy, as stated in the coalition agreement, which has been further specified in one or two sentences. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have been able to take away some of Mrs Nanninga's disappointment or at least further explain how we look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u452	Shall we let the minister finish the block first? Or is it going to take so long that we can do the interruptions in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u453	I think I'm a long way, Mr. Chairman, but do as you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u454	Then let's get the minister to wrap it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u455	Mr. Chairman. In one respect, I would like to amend my commitment to Mr Otten. I have looked specifically at a veto in the foreign field. This has been threatened once before under Rosenthal when it was about Council conclusions. That wasn't said at the time. However, Blok has indicated earlier that we cannot make an overview of all the threats or all the vetos of the entire cabinet. So I've just said that too short. That actually concerns the logic of Van Rooijen and others: if you have it, you don't have to use it in practice. I realise that the advocates of a veto will feel strengthened in that. But I also want to be honest with Mr Otten about what I just said to him. Mr. Chairman. I have asked Mr Koole's questions about Piraeus and China. I do not think Mr Otten and I fully agree on the veto, but I agree with him on the weight class in which the Netherlands finds itself. I think he's just right about that. It is also experienced abroad, both in my previous portfolio and in this portfolio. This has to do with all kinds of things, such as our economy, with our relative size and with our role between France, Germany and the United Kingdom, but also with our transatlantic links. That's all part of it. I would once again like to thank Mr Van Rooijen for his reference to the horrors of much longer ago. I very much agree with him on the lessons to be drawn from this. I also agree with him on maximizing exports. He said it disguised, but he was a bit critical of part of the policy. In general, I think that whether you are active in Europe or nationwide in the Netherlands or provincial or local, in all legislation and regulations, the question is how to serve the people in the country. How can you make their lives a little bit better, more stable and so on, no matter how difficult that is? That is the question we all have to ask each time. So I think the image that the European Union would only produce bureaucracy is really wrong. Van Rooijen doesn't say that either, but that comes up in the debate. But you can ask the EU, like the state administration and like the provinces and municipalities, what is the real effect, and do we have to come up with measures? I think that is a fair question to ask at all. So I very much agreed with Mr Van Rooijen. I have dealt with this question by Mrs Huizinga. Mrs Stienen made a comment about Ihbti. I think she wanted to have a letter on that at a later date. Did I get that correctly? In my opinion, she wanted to know how we specifically implement this in the Netherlands and in Europe. I would like to promise her that I will inform the Chamber about this, but with her permission I will find a suitable moment to process it in another piece, for example in the run-up to an RBZ. It's easier, I think, also in terms of speed. If I can choose the cure myself, I'll make sure I answer her question. Then I'm really a long way. I have one or two more questions from Mr Ballekom... No, Van Ballekom! Now I'm starting to do it, too. This is very common in German, by the way. That "von" or "van" you can leave out now and then. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Ballekom had five points, but they were not all addressed to me. Let me mention a few more things. He called it stretching trade treaties. How can you help Ukraine by working on that further? That association agreement is already quite broad, but I agree with him. The bet on further floor is in line with what we aim to do as the Netherlands. In any case, we are in favour of further strengthening cooperation. That's really what Zelensky and Kooleba indicate. I very much agree with that. Mr Van Ballekom also asked about Article 7 and the importance that countries wishing to join also show political will. The commitment of the Netherlands is clear there. I also recognise that this difficult decision-making procedure and the current field of action have proved insufficient, for example, in the case of Hungary and Poland. Intellectually, I do understand his direction of thinking, but I think that adapting this system was his question, too, whether that is realistic or not, becomes very complicated. I see him shaking his head. Then he might overestimate what the Netherlands can achieve. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mr Koole that I am expecting a communication from Commissioner Šuica in June following the conference. That is what a cabinet juice appreciation comes up with. Mr President, I cannot entirely rule out the fact that I have left one or two answers somewhere, but I think I have been virtually complete in my second-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u456	Thank you, Minister. Let's see who gets to the microphone first. That is Mrs Nanninga, but she gives her place to Mr Van Rooijen. That's how it's gonna take a while. Mrs. Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u457	In order to be interested in Mr Van Ballekom, let us talk about the principle of unanimity and not necessarily the right of veto. Give the animal a name. I think we are dealing here with a pragmatic view. There has been turbulence: perhaps we will get a little more right if we could get out of the veto. It's not about the principle. It simply undermines our sovereignty. Unfortunately, that has become clear. It is a different view from that of our group. We really see it as a big piece of Dutch sovereignty giving away. In any case, it is clear that the pragmatic effect may be that we may get our way a little more often. Thank you for that, but it is disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u458	Thank you. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u459	I'll be very brief. We are still not very reassured about the Minister's answers. We'll definitely come back to that later. I was shocked by a word. He certainly didn't mean to, so he might want to change that. He said we don't have anything in "the toolbox" anymore. I wouldn't want to see the veto as something from a toolbox. Perhaps that is what some people in Brussels think now. Let me give you an example of the tax veto. We are not going to suddenly, because the Poles are blocking the minimum rate, saying that we must also abandon the right of veto in the field of taxation. That is an exception which confirms the rule, I would say. I also agree with Mrs Nanninga, Mr Van Ballekom and others that we in this Chamber are sending out the message that the veto must remain as high as possible, especially with regard to taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u460	Thank you. Mr Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u461	There is a certain misunderstanding. I understand the Minister that he only speaks of unanimity in foreign policy. That is why I also said that Mrs Nanninga, I thought, should note that it is only about foreign policy. In other words, unanimity for Treaty changes, accessions, own resources and taxation remains the norm. In that sense, Mrs Klaphorst, there is no light between one VVD member and the other VVD member. That was a certain misunderstanding, raised by the PVV, and I want to fix it anyway. I want to hear one more thing from the Minister about Article 7. It will be very difficult, because you do not want to make it conditional, because you seem unwise. I don't think that's wise at all. You can force that, because that requires unanimity. It's a treaty change. You can say: as long as that is not settled, I do not agree with the Treaty to extend the Union to include Serbia, for example, because I do not bring the Trojan horse to the European Union. So that is very easy to achieve. A third point is that the VVD is very excited when the Minister confirms passages concerning the Social Fund, the Modernisation Fund, the Own Resources Decision and the MFF.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u462	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u463	I have clearly asked this a few times now, and I would very much appreciate it if this were confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u464	This seemed more like a third term. Thank you. Short response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u465	Yes, Chairman, very briefly, especially on that first one. I have understood the interruptions mainly politically by those who repeatedly express their concerns about taxation. I think I said four or five times that it was only about foreign policy. That was Mr Van Ballekom and I, at least from the outset, in total agreement. I understand what he's saying about Article 7. I wanted to point out that if you link that to the front in principle, you're really going to be in a completely different game. By the way, we are far from there, for example, in Serbia. There are still such fundamental questions that we are not yet anywhere near accession. In my opinion, all the nuances relating to Article 7 and to enlargement have already been discussed extensively in the previous debate. I don't know if I have much to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u466	I know that. If that has already been changed, you have nothing to add. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u467	And last but not least, I'd like to ask you if I'd like to confirm something. I always find it dangerous to go at an interruption at 10.30 p.m. to confirm what has been said by a Member, in this case by Mr Van Ballekom. If he is concerned with a proposal that still needs to be made, we must do it through the proper procedural process. It was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u468	The Minister is speaking, Mr. Van Ballekom. Minister, finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u469	I would then like to have a more specific question from Mr Van Ballekom before I confirm anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u470	So now we are going to ask a new question in an interruption after the second term of the Chamber. That's really not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u471	No, that's not a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u472	Well, then I'll give you a chance to respond briefly to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u473	It stands with so many words in the State of the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u474	I do not know what exactly Mr Van Ballekom is referring to, but what is in the state of the Union, and what the cabinet has said to be in favour or against, is not going to change in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u475	We're gonna make it to 10:30. Three dots on the i. One. Last week I was in Dublin as the delegation leader of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and Monsieur le Président, who is now gone, was there too. At that time Minister Coveney of Ireland announced that he would certainly like to organise a summit soon. So that's not a probable summit, it's a certain summit. I think it will take place even under the Irish Presidency of the Council of Europe. Two short points on the i about the letter I asked about feminist foreign policy and lhbti, preferably before the summer. I am specifically concerned with the commitment within the EU. I understand that there is still more to be said about feminist foreign policy in greater international cooperation. And I hope that my comments on the Istanbul Convention in Turkey will be taken to heart. Those were my tips on the i, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u476	I am going to refer to the previous answer. Otherwise, I'm gonna re-open every one of those registers. Which brings me to the motions. I would ask Mrs Karimi, referring to the debate, to the Karimi and others motion. the letter "D" until the cabinet has reached a position. And then I'm gonna come up with a written Cabinet Juice Appreciation. If she wishes to put the motion to the vote before that time, I must advise against the motion. I do not know when the vote will take place, I assume not tonight, but on Tuesday we will have to do it in that order. The cabinet must therefore meet before I can give a final opinion on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u477	However, it is important that we get that information before the vote in the Council has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u478	The first time this issue comes up is, I think, with the Eurogroup or the Ecofin Council. I should check when that's... At least I'll make sure that that information is there at the beginning of next week. Sooner than Tuesday, I don't think the Chamber will vote on it. I'll do everything I can to make sure that the Chamber has an appreciation for Tuesday at 1:30 p.m. If it takes longer, I'll let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u479	Thank you. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u480	Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motion with letter E. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The Court's report covered the previous MFF, i.e. the period 2014 to 2020. There is already an improved methodology in the current MFF. Then I joined the motion with letter F. I must also advise against it. In our opinion, the removal of import duties is not detrimental to food security in third countries. In fact, we believe that we are indeed helping Ukraine with this. Then there is the motion with letter G, tabled by Mr Koole. I would first like to carry out what we have already put in the letter and then to evaluate it, rather than reserving money for a later moment at the moment. Perhaps Mr Koole would like to hold the motion. Then we can retake the motion at a later date. Otherwise, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u481	There's no asking to do anything right now. It calls for a plan to be presented at the same time as the foreign affairs budget. If that plan has financial consequences, it can be included in that budget. So you don't have to say that right now. The motion calls for a plan at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u482	A rather comprehensive letter came this way, I think, last week. I think I've been clear about seeing the target. But I also indicated my hesitation with regard to the plan. In this motion we are talking about both a plan and budgetary consequences. That combination cannot be worn by the cabinet at the moment. I can imagine Mr Koole saying that he is holding the motion around the budget, so after Princess Day. I am not sure if the cabinet position has changed, but in itself I can imagine that procedurally. If the motion were to be put to the vote on Tuesday, I'd have to advise her not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u483	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u484	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u485	All motions have been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-06-07-eerstekamer-6.u486	I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Can you agree to that? Yes, that's the case. Then we came to the end of the meeting. I thank all the Members, I thank the Minister and I thank the staff who made this meeting possible. I wish you all at home.
