ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u1	The next item is the continuation of the first parliamentary term of the debate on COVID-19 issues and the long-term approach. I give the floor to Mr Karakus on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u2	I was almost the last one in the first term, and now I'm the first, so that's gonna be fine. I feel sorry for Mr Meijer, because at the end of the debate make up new points. So I'm really curious. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is dominated by the Corona policy in the broadest sense of the word. That would not have been necessary for the PvdA Group. After all, much of what is being discussed today has long since become obsolete. I prefer to talk about the long-term approach. Because while the Netherlands has barely received the last corona wave, the next one once again presents itself. The increasing number of infections and hospitalisations underlines the importance of a good and robust long-term vision and approach to combating COOVID-19. This is a vision that the PvdA and other political groups have been asking for for a long time and which the VWS Minister has recently sent to the Chamber. A good long-term vision is necessary, because COOVID-19 is now an integral part of our lives. The virus no longer leaves and mutates under changing circumstances. Fortunately, we already have much more knowledge about the virus and the effects of the measures taken than two years ago. This enables us to make better assessments. At the same time, it is completely unclear what a subsequent mutation or a possible new virus will look like and what its health effects are. In both cases, the basic structure, such as legislation, care, etc., must be in order so that we are able to react and improvise quickly and in the best way possible. As far as the PvdA is concerned, action is centred on the usefulness, necessity, enforcement and, above all, feasibility. Realism is necessary in all these areas, as well as a clear picture of the effects of past measures on the population. These are effects that sometimes only manifest themselves later, when the measures are already over and seem forgotten. This may include problems that have arisen with motivation and concentration and due to a lack of bonding and contact. The latter applies not only to young people, but also to people with vulnerable health or older people. In other words, we are not just talking about the effects on public health and the economy. Equally important are the consequences for the physical and mental state of society and for the social and social effects. On all these points, we are reviewing the proposed cabinet policy, but we want more than that. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is primarily in favour of a structural improvement in the position of the healthcare sector. The capacity and overload of the staff are of great concern, all the more so because this applies not only to hospitals, but also to nursing homes, for example. There the basic care in the peak days of corona could often no longer be delivered. Secondly, the PvdA wants the priority to be placed in long-term policy among the most vulnerable groups in society, such as the elderly, people with weak systems and low-income households. Isn't it wise, for example, to prepare all these people for online communication now to prevent people from uniting because of the ban on contact? The third and perhaps most important point. Whatever long-term policy is chosen, it must not be a breeding ground for further polarisation in society. Society seems increasingly to be made up of groups that are directly opposed to each other, especially when it comes to corona policy. How does the Minister ensure this in the long-term approach? Let's start with the positive news. We are pleased that a large number of instruments are being used to closely monitor developments around COOVID-19. This will make it easier to intervene. The choice for a Social Impact Team is also positive, especially since this team gets the same status as the OMT. This finally gives economy and society a voice at the table. That's gonna help make the right balance. However, we are curious about the impact, because the success of the Social Impact Team stands or falls with proper implementation, clear powers and responsibilities. Mr. Chairman. The doubt arises where the main starting point of the cabinet takes shape and substance. The aim is to keep society open at all times, even in the event of new virus revivals. The PvdA underlines this goal. But in an open society, everyone participates and is of value to everyone. In order to achieve this, the government does not go beyond some good intentions, a laundry list of organisational measures and an appeal to the commitment of everyone. In order to avoid wishful thinking, serious thought must also be given to the possibility of society closing down its parts. The Minister cannot close his eyes to the possible hard choices that need to be made if the virus is to survive to a severe extent. What limits must have been crossed? So, what scenarios are there? In what situation is the cabinet going to take control? It is and remains unclear. Can the Minister explain this further? Mr. Chairman. In fact, we're missing a lot more. For example, it remains unclear how the Minister sees a structural improvement in the position of the care sector. Here, a proactive attitude would have been in place. Objectively, there is a need for a substantial investment in quality, capacity and human strength in the full breadth of care, including in zero-line and first-line care. Care must also remain at an acceptable level in times of crisis. We need to make much more efficient use of existing capacity in hospitals, both from staff and from the available healthcare infrastructure. It is too crazy for words that a hospital and the facilities in the first line outside office hours are virtually not used. This can and must be done much better, both during and outside the pandemic crisis. The shortage of care staff is a concern that needs to be addressed as quickly as possible, including by significantly improving working conditions and by paying our healthcare providers better. Yes, there is hard recruitment for staff in a tight labour market. But if at the back door many employees leave the care disgruntled, mopping with the crane is open. The real big problem at the moment is not so much the limited number of students and the influx, but the large drop-out of particularly young caregivers in nursing. That's certainly not just salary-related. Can the Minister inform the Chamber of this development and report on the causes of this major early failure? Mr. Chairman. What also surprises me is that the search for extra hands for care does not mention the use of migration in any way. If this is done in a sensible way, new, temporary care workers can indeed offer the helping hand. Why isn't this being discussed at all? Or: to what extent could temporary migrants help the care? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. What about the position of the caregivers who were in the front line to keep the Netherlands running? According to FNV, a large part of the care workers have been fired because they are ill for longer than two years because of long covid. Think of all thezzp'ers who have been employed over the past two years to relieve the burden of care in an extremely risky working environment. They too have become ill and experienced the adverse consequences to this day. They've actually been abandoned. This feels like a kick for all those caregivers who were in the front line to keep the Netherlands running. The PvdA proposes to introduce a system to relieve the financial burden of this particular group, not least in order to prevent them from turning their backs on care. Is the Minister prepared to come up with an arrangement? Mr. Chairman. Then our concerns about increasing polarization. If the government acts erraticly, the usefulness and necessity of the measures cannot or does not clearly explain to the residents, the effects of the measures are not clearly visible and there is no maintenance, this will encourage mistrust. In fact, government policy must try to bring groups in society closer together. It remains therefore of the utmost importance to ensure that measures are supported and understood by citizens. How? By opting for realistic and demonstrable effective policies, but also by being honest about what is not yet known. Show the dilemma of choice. Take people into dilemmas so that they can understand the choices that need to be made in the end. My hope and hope of the PvdA was precisely aimed at a more proactive attitude, for example towards groups of people in society who, through disinformation and populism, are increasingly drifting towards an alternative reality, in which science and objective information are no longer meaningful. I believe that this is a very important factor of failure for the success of the Corona policy. Confidence in policy begins with honest and clear communication and with a message that is more often focused on the target group, for example on people who are not powerful in the Dutch language, or who find it difficult to distinguish between reliable and unreliable news. How does the Minister view the fight against polarisation in society? What approach does he propose? Is the Minister prepared to communicate in other languages if necessary? Mr. Chairman. It's all too noncommittal. As long as we stick to the basic measures, keep testing ourselves and opt for self-insulation when necessary, it will be fine. It seems so, but that is not exactly a long-term vision. The same applies to the proposed sectoral approach. The Minister states that agreements are made with sectors and that the sectors also agree on how they act in the event of a new outbreak. Are those appointments made, too? Is that gonna happen in time? Those appointments go far enough? The Minister says he will wait, but that is not enough. It should be more binding and link a deadline to this sectoral approach. Is the Minister prepared to do so? When should the appointments be completed as far as he is concerned? "As soon as possible" is not concrete enough. The Minister's starting point is that every effort must be made to keep schools and nurseries open. Schools themselves must ensure a safe working and learning environment. An earlier draft of this approach indicated that school staff would be given a higher place in the vaccination order than during the last two years. Why has this priority position been removed from the final document? Can the Minister promise that vaccination will maintain the priority position for teaching staff? Another way to keep schools open is to improve the ventilation of educational buildings. The current budget for this is totally inadequate. There were more comments about the school buildings. At the heart of the problem is that there is not enough budget. That's what the municipalities say. Either they say they don't have the money, or the schools don't have the right resources for that. How is the Minister going to solve this problem? Mr. Chairman. With regard to the vulnerable in society, the PvdA would have liked to have seen a proactive attitude. These people need our support and solidarity just in times of crisis. It is said that this group is given priority, but the number of concrete actions remains hopelessly behind. Can the Minister explain how this relates to keeping society open? In times of crisis, do we have to deal with people who have to die in absolute loneliness and with elderly people who are not allowed visitors? Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the PvdA is deeply concerned about the high level of abstraction of this minister's long-term vision and doubts its translation into practical measures. We therefore call on the government to add this long-term vision to the points raised by the PvdA Group. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister what the further process is as a result of the long-term vision. When can we expect the concrete plan of action on various aspects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. Mr Meijer has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u4	Mr. Chairman. The members of the government present have been listening to many critical questions and views for over three hours. I would have liked to have chosen a slightly different tone, but the VVD group in this Chamber is also critical. Besides, I don't want to look back. This will be done at an appropriate time and, above all, first by others. Today we want to respond in particular to the long-term letter, without having to repeat the debate in the House of Representatives. If we look back today, it is mainly to learn from it. To sum up, we have the following criticisms. There seems to be too little and too late. Communication and information are insufficient. And the current developments surrounding the infections are not reassuring. I will talk in my contribution about the division of responsibility, the MIT, communication, prevention and optimisation of the care chain. But first of all, that is our primary role, and I will talk about the legislation. Of course, we in the Chamber did not help the government by not extending the temporary measures recently. It is up to the government that it has not developed permanent legislation in time as a basis for far-reaching measures that violate fundamental rights. But my group did not consider it proportionate, even risky, not to extend the Temporary Law measures, while of course the virus was never gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u5	I hear Mr Meijer from the VVD saying that we did not help the cabinet by voting down the Temporary Law measures. Does Mr Meijer think that we should review the Constitution here in the First Chamber and look at fundamental rights? Or does he think that we are here to help the cabinet as much as possible and to serve? That is actually the question that raises with me this comment by Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u6	In particular, I declare our own vote. We felt that the government should have developed permanent legislation in order to have a permanent basis for something far-reaching like the adaptation of fundamental rights. We have asked this on a regular basis. At some point you come to consider: that permanent law is not there, do we have to extend the temporary law measures? Or should we say more in principle: no, this is not good? We finally felt that we wanted that toolbox. You've made a different assessment. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u7	So I'm noticing...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u8	Your microphone's down, but I didn't turn it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u9	If you don't take him out, he should do it now. He's doing it now. I note that the VVD says that this permanent legislation did not come into being, so we should reward it by prolonging that bad law indefinitely. Bad behavior must be rewarded; that is what I conclude from this. Fortunately, the majority in this First Chamber have said: you have had two and a half years. There are also deadlines for making a law permanent, but it never happened. I also asked the Minister why that did not happen. But then, of course, you don't have to reward that bad behavior. That's not how I recognize the VVD. So I ask Mr Meijer: what is the matter with your party?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u10	Mr Otten paraphrases our contribution to the previous debate, which I have now repeated. A balancing factor is often the choice between two evils. That was the case in this case. I leave the word'reward' entirely on Mr Otten's behalf. Fortunately, the first instalment of the amendment to the Public Health Act is in consultation, in order to ensure the democratic embedding of any necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u11	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Meijer say: we did not help the government. Mr. Otten hacked into that. But we have actually helped the government, at least in the VVD's view, by not extending that temporary law measures again? That was an incentive for the government to come forward with a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u12	That's one way to interpret it. I am not talking about a game between the First Chamber and the Government, but about a pandemic among us, which may require measures to be taken for which a legal basis is needed. If that legal basis is not ideal, it is always better than no legal basis. That has been our consideration. Mr Nicolaï has made a different assessment. But we are now repeating a bit of the debate that has been held here before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u13	I am very glad that there is indeed a law now. I think that if we want to keep progress in it, and if we can ensure that it is a proper law, we can also now shed light on that consultation proposal. But Mr Meijer's remark of the VVD was just that we were not allowed to. So we'll only get into the delay. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u14	Well, it is a coincidence that today we have a long-term co-vid debate and that a proposal relating to this is in consultation, allowing us to talk about such a proposal at the moment. But it does not seem to me that we should make a habit of discussing proposals that are still at another stage of legislation here. But of course you have every right to do so if there is a long-term co-vid debate here. Anything can be discussed. However, I do think that we should pay attention to the purity of rollers and to the time when we need to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u15	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u16	If the VVD then accepts its responsibility and says that it is really bad that there is no toolbox now, then I would say as a VVD: then we are going to get to work on this law and then we are going to give our opinion on this consultation proposal now too. Then it's all gonna run as fast as possible. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u17	Finally, Mr. Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u18	I like orderly procedures. That means there's an internet consultation now. Then comes the opinion of the Council of State. Then the government will look into it. Then it goes to the House of Representatives and after a debate we get it there. I think that's a careful way. If you keep that careful way, you might also be the fastest at the finish line, because otherwise everyone will react to each other in the process, which could just lead to delays. Fortunately, the first tranche of the change of the Wpg is in consultation. We'll get the bill presented in September at the earliest. My question is: what can the government do other than have emergency regulations drawn up if there is an unexpected need for measures which now lack a legal basis? We've been asking questions about state emergency law. It is good that we have been given the answer that this change of the Wpg should ultimately fit into the broader framework of the revision of state emergency law. In the autumn we will be presented with a framework for this. It is good that this first step could be adapted if it did not fit into the broader framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u19	Mr Meijer said that as long as the Wpg has not changed, we will be dependent on the state emergency right to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u20	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u21	Or was that a question? Does he not agree with us that there is still a great deal to be done between taking binding legal and restrictive measures and actually doing nothing? What is the value of urgent government advice and good communication about it? Isn't that something that should be used in the first place, and perhaps already?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u22	I come to this later in my speech when I talk about prevention. I had announced that in the beginning. And maybe there's been a misunderstanding. I may have linked two paragraphs too quickly. I said, do we have anything other than emergency regulations if anything is needed? Then I started a new paragraph on state emergency law, on which we have received an opinion from the Council of State and to which the government has responded. But that has nothing to do with each other in my speech. Mr. Chairman. This morning I made an interruption when it was about the Wpg that was in consultation. I should not say anything about that, given my interruption, but I am now allowing myself the freedom to ask for one thing. Why is something like the corona pass not in the package of measures? Sectors are now working on sector plans. I can imagine that a sector like the nighthoreca might want something like a ticket or a measure to select at the entrance so that they can remain open. I'm not saying that's the corona pass we know. Maybe the Minister can respond to some of the access measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u23	I am still surprised that the VVD continues to hold on to that ticket, while research by TU Delft has shown that such a 2G measure is not effective at all. It offers nothing but false safety. Why does the VVD retain a measure based on vaccination status, which does not at all determine the degree of infection?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u24	I don't think I said what the ticket should be based on. That could also be based on tests. But at least it's something you can take a measure to stay open, like in the nighthoreca.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u25	I understand, however, that there is indeed a basis for this in the proposal which is now under consultation. Wouldn't it be much more careful to look at whether there is any effective measure at all before you call for such a measure to be introduced and submitted to economic sectors, while restricting freedom and thereby violating fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u26	I heard you ask a question this morning. I await the answer with interest. In the consultation copies of the law, I checked where that basis was to be found, but I await the answer. I have now said nothing other than that some kind of access measure, in whatever form, based on scientific research and so on, seems to me to be a tool for sectors. I'm waiting for the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u27	Should the vaccination status, which appears to be ineffective on the basis of the TU Delft 2G study, not be excluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u28	I await the Minister's response to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u29	I wonder how Mr Meijer is in it. Mr Verkerk made a plea this morning to make regional tailor-made work possible in the sectoral plans. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u30	Yeah, I thought it was kind of a hot discussion. Mr Verkerk had spoken to mayors. I happen to have been acting mayor for some time in the last corona period. I was even president of the security region. It seems to me that it is very complicated to apply regional customisation when it comes to measures such as those that enter into the law. Of course, regional tailor-made work can take place in relation to doing business with each other during the prevention phase and the like. I am also looking forward to the Minister's reply on this point. In practice, I think it will be difficult to monitor regional borders and local borders. I think you yourself gave an example of this. I was talking about the sector plans. I mentioned one example. Last night I found some sector plans on childcare and education. However, the overall picture of the sector plans is very diverse. Perhaps an update can be made on the state of the matter and on the timetable. This brings me to my own responsibility. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is very much in favour of the government's emphasis on the responsibility of citizens and sectors. This has clearly taught us how to deal with the crisis so far. In particular, young people and entrepreneurs, normally pillars of support in society, became vulnerable by this approach. A resilient society helps in dealing with a crisis. The following will probably not be the intention, but that's how it happened to me. The VWS Minister presents its own responsibility as if the government's responsibility could be reduced as citizens and sectors increase. Maybe the Minister can take care of that misunderstanding. The public authorities must also take up their responsibilities, because society and the sectors want to know within what legal and financial frameworks they have to make their sector plans, so that they can each assume their own responsibilities within them. The government has two secondary objectives. These are social and economic continuity and vitality, and the accessibility of the whole care chain for all. In itself, we agree with that. But how measurable are these objectives? When measures are taken, consideration will have to be given to how to objectify the consequences of such a measure. Is that why the Social Impact Team was created? The VVD party in this Chamber wouldn't have invented such a team of their own. Doesn't the MIT recommend par excellence in the area for which politicians have been elected? That is the weighing of social consequences of measures. In our view, the cabinet is a mit. Why does the MIT advice and implementation advice not go through the administrative coordination consultation, where the OMT opinion is assessed for administrative feasibility and desirability? The VVD Group stresses the need for greater attention to be paid to social and economic vitality and continuity in corona policy. Despite all good intentions, there is a fear that the addition of MIT at a national level will give rise to a mess of opinion, which does not improve the clarity of government policy. Clarity and predictability are something one can expect from a government in a crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u31	Apparently, Mr Meijer has a different picture at the MIT than we do. We have seen that it identifies the economic and social consequences, after which the political balance takes place, just as the OMT identifies the health effects and risks, after which the government will have to consider them. Does Mr Meijer agree with me that it should be so? Let me put it this way. The question to the Minister is then what is it like?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u32	Let the last sentence of this paragraph be: "In any case, let MIT concentrate on actual and objective observations, and let the government and parliament make the calculations." We are therefore totally in agreement, and I was able to hide some of my speaking time during the interrupting period. Mr. Chairman. Whatever one may expect from the government is clear communication and information. The VVD Group is critical on this point. The virus has never been gone and has had a recovery in a few weeks. At this stage, it is mainly a question of re-respecting the basic measures. We believe that this is not sufficiently brought to public attention. We are also shocked by the small number of 60-plussers who have had a second booster. Mr. Chairman. Covid's with us for now. This means a lot for our society, especially for the elderly and people with vulnerable health. It is wonderful to formulate and communicate as a starting point that this cabinet wants to prevent the closure of schools and childcare at all times, but then you must also indicate what is needed and what is expected of the population. We would like to hear from the government what is going to be improved on communication in the short term, and we would like public information to be tailored to the different target groups, because we know by now that not everyone can be achieved in the same way and with the same message. Mr. Chairman. The letter of 13 June gives an overview of the preparations being made for a new revival of the virus. There are some comments to be made. I will do so reluctantly, because the primacy lies with our colleagues in the House of Representatives, and we do not need to encourage them. If we are going to have legislation again soon, it is good to know whether the integrated approach to which that legislation serves is well in place. The government is right to focus on prevention, including through a healthy lifestyle. Avoidable care, vaccinations, living rules and education are probably the most important step, now that corona, we assume, remains among us for a while. Then it does not reassure us, with all due understanding of the limitations of the current labour market, that it will still take six weeks, if necessary, to scale up from a basic capacity of 300,000 vaccinations per week to 1.5 million vaccinations per week. Perhaps the Minister could explain why this should take so long. Mr. Chairman. The importance of preventing care demand is emphasized once again when you take the chapter The care chain optimized from the government's long-term letter. Does the Minister agree with me that for the short term, this autumn, there is only limited profit to be made from the proposed optimisations, and above all to cope with outbreak waves? Does he agree that structural improvements require more time and, above all, more direction? This calls for more public guidance in crisis situations, of a partially private white sector. In the evaluation of the Security Regions Act, this was already a theme and the OVV report also provides guidance on this. Apart from public-private, the distinction between central and decentralised plays a role in this direction. These are interesting themes that we are going to deal with when we are presented with legislation. In this context, it is important that the second tranche of the adaptation of the Wpg will cover the national functionality of infectious disease control (LFI). On behalf of the VWS Minister and together with the GGDs, this FVC will take on the operational management of large-scale infectious disease control at the time of a crisis. Mr. Chairman. It is relevant to know whether it is possible to work in this way even in anticipation of legislation. In other words, what can the FVC not do until there is a legal anchoring? Our question about the faster scaling-up of vaccination capacity can be seen in this light. Finally, Mr President, this brings me to a somewhat higher level of abstraction in my group's question as to whether we should continue to approach covid solely as a crisis. In a crisis, including the prolonged one, you think of something of a transitory nature, but covid and also long covid lead to a permanently increased demand for care throughout the chain in the coming years. In order to meet this concern, the healthcare capacity cannot be scaled up meaningfully for the time being, is our perception. On this point, please a reflection of the ruler. Mr. Chairman. We await with interest the answers and the reflections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u33	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u34	I thought Mr. Meijer's last sentence of the VVD was a bit cryptic. What exactly does he mean by: the question of care cannot yet be scaled up meaningfully? Does he mean that care capacity should be scaled up or does he have any doubts that this will happen? Could Mr Meijer perhaps go into that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u35	In my opinion, there are a number of considerations in Chapter 4 of the long-term letter, based on advice on how to optimise care capacity. There are arguments as to why there are all kinds of limitations; I am not prepared to do so at the moment. If the Minister says it can be meaningful, I would like to hear it, but I have the impression that we are dealing with restrictions. This has to do with the labour market, among other things. We can think "we put so many beds in it or so many of this or so much of that," but not all of that will work. That means a lot. I am now bringing that question to the fore, without having any solutions of my own. But adopting a motion that calls for a significant scaling-up would be a bit empty, because I do not think it can be done. I would like to wait for that, too, and I have asked for the reaction of the govern ment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u36	But then, of course, there is a bit of a question as to how the VVD stands in it, regardless of whether it succeeds or not. It is clear that it is necessary in structural terms. The VVD Group then says: "We have to want to take that step? We have to have the intention to scale it up structurally?" How are we supposed to explain this? Does the VVD think that there should be structural scaling up, regardless of whether it is feasible? Should it be supposed to be? Or does the VVD say: we shouldn't scale it up structurally at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u37	Well, that scaling up is a different place in my speech than it is in your speech. In my view, we have indicated that the VVD assumes that prevention is related to lifestyle, to vaccination, to code of conduct................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If action is then to be taken and restrictions imposed, we may need a legal basis for this. Eventually, it will lead to the burden of care, but you shouldn't start with the solution there. At the end, I would point out that there is always a somewhat structuralally high burden on care, regardless of the peaks, also by post-covid and the fact that it is still a few years away. Our question is whether care can be taken if we read those optimization reports. That is what I put forward as a question. Of course I want to fix it, but I want a lot of things. I can also see at some point that there are limitations to the solutions. Those limitations are there and then there may be choices to be made. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this as the beginning of a discussion and not as the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u38	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u39	If the conclusion is that there is a structurally higher burden on our healthcare system, Mr Meijer himself concludes, then the beginning of the discussion is that you need to take steps to cope with this structurally higher burden and thus also to be able to use a structurally higher supply of care capacity. Isn't that just a logical consequence of what we should be working towards instead of now making all kinds of retreating movements in the sense of "maybe it comes from flexibilisation or prevention" if you yourself come to the conclusion that it is going to be a structural problem in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u40	Finally, Mr. Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u41	Mr. Chairman. I distance myself from the qualification of "retreating movements." I have indicated how, in the eyes of the VVD Group, a pandemic should be tackled. Then at the end we do get to a problem. I'm not a spokesperson for Care at all, so I'm moving on to the limits of what I can afford here. Finally, we find ourselves in a system that already has problems without a pandemic. Then of course you can say that you want to expand, but there are limitations. You have to want to face each other. That is the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u43	I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, too, for allowing me to be here today. I have one whole question from D66. I'm about to answer it. I'm skipping a long introduction. In any case, I think it would be nice if the Minister of the United States of America took a closer look at the whole issue. Perhaps one preliminary remark. I have not received any questions about it, but following the recommendations of the OVV is, of course, also partly at my ministry. That's where we work closely together. Then it is really about the crisis organisation and how we can better organise it. All this will be included in the programme for strengthening crisis management and fire management this autumn. No questions have been asked about it now, but I suspect that we will be discussing it with each other for the rest of the year. I thought I'd give that to you in advance. This also applies to the tightening up and revision of the Security Regions Act, which we are working on. I am sure that I will then come here and talk to you about this. My one question I had was: how does the Minister prepare for possible disturbances of public order? That is, of course, a good question and it is not only reserved for corona and what is happening around it. We're going through all kinds of things right now. That will continue to be part of our society. It is important to stress that the mayors, the D.A. and the police are enforcing where necessary. At the moment when it comes to public order and security, we will always look at what is going on with customization from the triangle, so locally, and what is the best way of doing things, and I am always very proud that our police are known worldwide for a strong capacity to act de-escalatingly, in order to prevent things from getting even more out of hand. Perhaps it is also good in the light of recent days to stress that this in no way means that those who cause problems will then get away with it. Then you'll be fined afterwards, looked up or whatever. But at that time de-escalating performance can be very useful. So local triangles make the assessment. The NCTV facilitates country-wide coordination between relevant municipalities, OM and police by bringing parties together and encouraging them to make agreements with each other. That is what happened last week, for example, with the actions we are now seeing around nitrogen. In doing so, we have made agreements, or actually provided some kind of legal framework for municipalities, police and justice. We have said together with the NCTV: these are the ways to act. That will not be any different in the future, even if Corona were to bring things back to normal. I think so, but a lot of questions have also been asked about this that I think my colleague Kuipers will go on to say that good communication and good explaining to each other where we stand and what we are doing, is often enough for all citizens who are genuinely concerned, or at least gives enough tools to deal with the uncertainty that comes with it. We will always act against those who want to take advantage of a situation and of our fundamental rights and then put others at risk. That was him. I see an interruption. I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u45	I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the question put by the D66 Group. I do think that the issue that has been raised a little more widely in the debate is about confidence and support for measures that may be needed. Perhaps it is possible for the Minister to elaborate a little more on how we are going to ensure that the basis is there in the preventive sphere, so that there should be no disturbances of public order because there is more understanding and support for the measures that may then be taken again by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u46	I think it is important to separate two groups again in this answer, as we have done these weeks and previously with corona. There are people who are worried or against policy, and there could be a whole range of them. There is also plenty of room in our society to make your voice heard, within our rule of law. I think we've learned a lot of lessons from the past two years, when it comes to corona, how to communicate even better. Of course, we know more now, so it will also be easier for us to communicate better. We need to be very clear about what's coming at us and where we're in the middle. My colleague will say a few words about this later. I think it is very important to make people feel more that they are in control. Two and a half years ago, when we started this, we were all completely confused, like, what happens now, what is this, how do you deal with it? If you get hit hard in your life and in your work and in your household, then I get that you can really panic. We now know much more and we can also communicate more focused and better. And we have also learned lessons, which I also hear as Minister of JenV, such as making a distinction to the group of people who use this as a reason to riot and to attack police and journalists. We will always take a firm stand against this, as it undermines our rule of law. If you tear those groups apart and make sure that our partners in the municipalities and in the country also know what is happening, what we stand for, what are the ways to facilitate demonstrations or concerns or be in front of them, and what are the ways to act when others abuse them, that helps us very much. So we've learned a lot from that, too, over the past few years, and we could do everything we could. I also see what we are already implementing when it comes to crisis management and good communication, for example in the reception of Ukrainians, which has also been put into a crisis model, and in what is not in a crisis model but is very topical: the actions around nitrogen. So we are already implementing it at the front: good information, legitimize, of course offer space if people want to demonstrate and make their voice heard, and act firmly against those who abuse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u47	I still have to work on my dictation when I say the word "Ministers" and in the future I say the "s" a little more clearly. I did ask a few questions that were more general, for example: are we done looking back now and should we be looking ahead? I referred for a moment to the Prime Minister, who said: otherwise we will continue to look back and evaluate, let us look ahead, we will have had a bit of a look back. But there will be two more investigations from the Security Research Council. The minister says they also touch her wallet. I'd like to hear about that, too. I've also asked about scenarios. Have any scenarios been devised for this summer in which this minister also plays a role? I remember that the previous Minister for Justice and Security also invited us to the Chamber during recesses during the last period, because he had to discuss something with us urgently. I ask this Minister whether there are things in the pipeline, whether she has worked out things in scenarios that we should also take into account. That seems to me to be a good question before we stop meeting for two months, at best.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the question of looking back and looking forward. I have just said in response to D66 that in my six months here I see how we are implementing the lessons of not so long ago in our approach, for example in the reception of Ukrainians, where we have activated the crisis structure. We also immediately involved the security regions and the mayors, and not only that, but we also give them a lot of space and position, because we cannot do without them. There I see all these elements coming back. I think that's where we're at now. I think the Prime Minister meant, and so I insist, that we implement those lessons immediately, because we don't have to wait for things that are still coming our way. We're in the middle of other challenges. Corona could be a challenge again. In addition, as far as I'm concerned, you implement those lessons immediately. I think it was seen more as not standing still. At least that's how I heard it. I think that is entirely in line with the deployment of the SP. My colleague, Mr Kuipers, deals with the concrete scenarios. He's giving me the answers to that now. It's very good. Sorry to tell you, Minister Kuipers. I have a role to play in that respect, of course. This role comes into play when it really moves towards, for example, the security regions, when they are re-established. We are also reviewing the Security Regions Act, also considering the position you give the mayors involved. If borders are crossed and it is really about disorder, then the role lies primarily with the mayors and in the triangle, but also with me. I have, of course, a role to play there was also a question about the Minister of Honor to go to the table with religious parties about how we deal with this at the time when we would have to adjust the way we would want to and can deal with each other in the light of corona. So there are different elements, but VWS will be primarily leading on this topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u49	I'm asking specifically for that. As far as the first is concerned, I am more pleased with how this Minister himself is able to deal with what she thinks she has heard from the Prime Minister. That's hearsay. I can do more with what the minister himself thinks. Then the second. We have not been here in the past to discuss VWS issues where the Minister of Justice happened to be present. It was definitely about cases where the Justice Department was leading. So my question is: are there any issues in the scenarios that still need to be settled legally, in the area where the Minister of Justice and Security is leading? That is what we have come back for on a regular basis. That went beyond just a security region subject or something that would be inconspicuous. It was really about matters of principle, I remember, following a ruling by the court, where we suddenly had to show up here within a few days on a Friday in a recess, to discuss it with each other and take a decision. I would like to have some clarification from the Minister as to whether there is anything to be done in the next two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u50	I understand the question very well. I cannot see what summer is going to look like entirely forward, but I hope that we are all going to have a good, safe and free summer. In terms of legislation, of course, some things have happened around corona over the last two years. Several spokesmen have already mentioned the intervention of the Chambers in relation to the legislative process and how we anticipate the possible return of measures. VWS is leading the preparation of a number of things in the Wpg. I'm not part of that anymore, not even from JenV. However, I think that my colleague's long-term approach, on which we provide input from all expertise, is important to ensure that it is as predictable as possible. It's about taking everything we can take with us for the last two years. I think that Minister Kuipers can go into that further, but I hope that this predictability can provide the calm that Mr Janssen................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. What's that look like? I think that's better secured now than two years ago, and in the whole process that came after us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u51	This reassures me a little, because in the past we have been attacked by sudden legal problems that were not foreseen. So let's wait and see. A question that has remained a little bit still remains is a question that I asked both ministers in concrete terms. Has the second part of the report of the Safety Research Council already been submitted for response? Because if there are recommendations in there, that means that this minister does not have to wait until the report is published. There may already be recommendations that she thinks: hey, I should take advantage of that now, in order to avoid worse. Can they be arrested now instead of waiting until the date of publication?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u52	Minister Kuipers will return to the trial around the second part. But that question is, of course, very relevant. I have just indicated that, unfortunately, we have moved from one crisis structure to another: from corona to the reception of Ukrainians. We'll do everything we've learned and what we can do sharper. And if there are lessons for another crisis, which I hope will not come, we'll take it with us again. We're not gonna wait for anything like that. If we think it's good lessons we can work with right now, yeah, we will. Perhaps it is good to add to Mr Janssen: we all want this predictability. That's what the people want, especially outside this house. So that's what we're really committed to. If something suddenly happens that we have to act on and that requires legislation and we do not have it at the time, then the emergency regulation will come. This House is well aware of this, because there has been a wide-ranging debate on it. So I can't completely rule out these kinds of scenarios, but everything is focused on predictability and on the fact that, step by step, we set it up well with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u53	Mr Van der Voort spoke of disorder and mistrust. Looking back at the period of the corona measures, I think that was one of the most stormy periods in our history, including the legal aspect. Major violations of fundamental rights have been committed. I just heard the minister say, "I'm not involved in that Wpg." That is formally the case, but I would like to ask the Minister a few questions. In the debate on the state of the rule of law, we also discussed the position of its ministry when it comes to legislation. These are matters where fundamental rights are really at stake. There will soon be a law that will allow fundamental infringements. Can the Minister say something about how she can contribute to the fact that this constitutional test is also being carried out through Justice, and that the quality of legislation is being looked at through Justice? In this way, suspicion and mistrust of the population can be eliminated as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u54	Mr Nicolaï is right: it is so formal. But where we can provide expertise from our role, we will always do so. There are also very strong lawyers at VWS, I have been able to see them up close in recent months. Of course, we do it together, also as a cabinet. We help each other where necessary and where possible. But it's more like tearing that apart over the past two years. After a few debates with Mr Nicolaï here, I know that he always has strict reflections, including on the past and on history. I think that the last two years have taught us a great deal in this respect too. I totally agree with him. But we will, of course, provide input and expertise where necessary and where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u55	Can the Minister be a little more specific about that? How does it work? Because of course that is not discussed in the cabinet; that is just between official services. How does that work? How can we, too, have the confidence that there will be a proper review of these powers with legal glasses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u56	That is exactly what Mr Nicolaï has said. This is done in close consultation, including with our lawyers. This also affects more ministries from their expertise, but this is then specific to us. Our lawyers are involved. It's a broad law. I know that the colleagues from BZK and EZK and everyone else are very much in favour of this. Perhaps Minister Kuipers will be able to say a little more about how the process is organised internally in his ministry. But of course it must be a broad-based law, not only from the different expertises, but also from the Chambers. It's a law that comes for a reason. It comes to be able to go further if it is necessary. I understand that Mr Nicolaï will make the right weighting here, but we will also make it in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u57	I hear the Minister for Justice and Security speak clearly about this crisis structure and its use. She does this more in terms of: we have learned a lot from it and we are actually continuing to use this crisis structure for these kinds of issues. Last week I had the debate with the Minister for the Interior on fundamental rights, on the Constitution. Then I set out the example of a statement by the mayor of Dordrecht, Mr Kolff. He said clearly: the crisis structure has been used for corona, then for the reception of Ukrainians, and now it is being used again in the asylum crisis. So every time we go from crisis to crisis, the security region and the Security Council are taken off the stables. The Minister was just talking about its revision. Would it not be better, even in line with what has been established by this mayor, to get rid of this crisis structure instead of constantly putting that crisis structure on the table and putting things on the table every time as crisis measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u58	That crisis structure is very valuable. I have been able to see that for myself in the last six months, but more importantly: my predecessors have seen that. These are three examples, but also the enormous water pollution in Limburg, where victims suffered a lot of damage, had at some point escalated into a crisis structure in order to make quick decisions there. In fact, that is the only thing the crisis structure does: all those involved at the table and under high pressure in the short term make decisions that you would otherwise, from our regular processes, take longer about, and that cannot be done in a crisis. The whole thing is that I have now experienced this with corona, with the Ukrainians and now with the asylum crisis, which we say immediately on day one: as short as possible. You want to pour it back where it belongs, and that's regular. I think it is very valuable that we involve the security regions in this way. I know that the mayors say that we need to strike a good balance, that we need to make sure that we don't leave everything that doesn't belong to them. They're absolutely right about that. We're careful about that, too. But without the security regions and without all those individual mayors, we can't deal with these kinds of crises. So we do need them very much. I fully agree with the PVV if I can at least interpret it in such a way that such a crisis structure should be as short as possible, but it is really necessary that you can switch quickly when you need to. That is really possible if you engage in such a structure when something escalates and says: now we all have to make these decisions. Unless you realize you can't make the decision, then you know what you stand for. That's really helping.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u59	The Minister himself mentions the example of a flood. That could also be a fire or another disaster that happens quite unexpectedly. In doing so, buttons must be cut out suddenly for a short period of time. Then you need a crisis structure. But now we see that this crisis structure is actually being used permanently in matters that are needed for a longer term, such as the corona approach, or in regular policies, such as asylum policy. This includes the far-reaching powers that go beyond what would be desirable in a normal democratically controlled situation. Given the democratic legitimacy of such powers, can the Minister explain why it would be desirable to maintain that crisis structure? Wouldn't it be much better to use simply democratically controlled and legitimized structures instead of putting them back in the security regions, at the Security Council, on which we, as a People's Assembly, also have a decentralised view and direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u60	I am pleased with this addition and with this question, because then I can take away the picture, I hope, that the Security Council, for example, will take decisions. That's not what's going on in there. What I do do is leave it with the mayors and check whether these are the principles and decisions of the Council of Ministers which they can support. We need them. Without the mayors, we can't do all these things. Well, I guess that's what it takes. Then they can indicate whether they do so with certain conditions or whether they do not want to do so anyway. We'll take that back with us. There will be no additional powers in a crisis structure. The only thing that happens is that in a crisis structure such a MCCb, a Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management, is empowered to take decisions. That means that the decisions we take then go to the Council of Ministers for information. Many members of the Council of Ministers are in such a crisis meeting, but where necessary there are also the UNG and the security regions. Thus, democratic legitimacy is still guaranteed, only decisions are taken under high pressure. That means that this is happening at a pace. Well, that's an advantage. There will be no additional powers. Such a structure is not permanent. This one is as short as possible. In the reception of the Ukrainians, for example, we have reduced the crisis structure after a few months. As a technical chairman, I no longer play a role in this. Once again, it goes down the regular path, namely through the Under Councils and the Council of Ministers. Of course, you will test at the Security Council, like: "This is how we look at it. Can you guys do anything in this? What conditions do you need?" So it is precisely a structure that works very well. We have received a lot of lessons on this, for example from the OVV reports. Initially, the security regions were caught too late at corona. After that, it went on too long. These are all elements that we are processing right now to stay exactly within the frameworks that I think the PVV might interpret a little too much the way I want it to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u61	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u62	I am still mainly looking for democratic legitimacy. I still don't see that one again. Even though it may not be of permanent duration, the Security Council, for example, is getting an ever-greater interpretation as a kind of permanent organ. Last week, for example, I ran into another situation. I was told by a mayor: we had a letter sent from the Security Council to the Cabinet to have European rules drawn up on a particular subject. Then I think: it is not at all the job of the Security Council to take on a role as co-legislator? I would like to say of this: at least make sure that it is again what we need to talk about, such as fire safety, coordination of fire services or possibly a text of an emergency regulation. It should not be about such political considerations. I also hear in the Minister's reply that political considerations are being submitted to the Security Council for coordination. With all due respect, we are sitting there with a group of unelected mayors and not with a democratic representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u63	Finally, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u64	We don't make decisions about it. The mayors are being asked... I've had to do that in the first few weeks that I was Minister very often about corona. Now looking back, we were in the final phase of that. We had to ask the Security Council, often together with Minister Kuipers: we are thinking of such measures, but can you do this in the municipalities? Mayors can say: it is very nice that you think from Justice and Security that it can be arranged in this way, but that simply cannot be done in the city. If mayors say that what has been conceived is not feasible, then it is very important for us to take it back before we put something on there that they then cling to. That democratic legitimacy is guaranteed. Tomorrow, for example, I will be in the Lower House in the debate on the Continuing Act. This law is about emergency rights that we have had to establish in the reception of Ukrainians. In addition, you give mayors the means to arrange that shelter. Actually, this should have gone to COA, but COA couldn't handle that big influx. The Chamber will then be informed immediately. When tomorrow the Chamber says, "Nice thought, but we're not gonna do that," then it ends. I hope the Chamber doesn't say that, because then I have a new problem. But the legitimacy is just guaranteed. After every MCCb we have, on any subject, the Chamber is immediately informed. There are a lot of debates taking place, so the decision-making takes place where it has to be. All you do is speed things up. After all, you're in a crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u65	I also have a question for this Minister for Justice and Security, in line with the previous question on the security regions. We had a debate here last week with Minister Bruins Slot on the constitutional changes that have just been adopted by two-thirds majority. One of them was the preamble 'The Netherlands is a democratic state of law'. At the same time, the question was raised as to what is actually the democratic legitimacy of the security regions. The Netherlands is one of the few countries in the world where mayors have not been elected. An important reason for the failure of the past two years, if I may sum it up, is that every night the unelected mayor Bruls, as chairman of the unelected security regions, does not know what these are; I also thought that the security regions for floods, fires and such things are going to be at Op1 and in all the talk shows what we should and should not do. I don't think it's weird that people start rebelling at some point or don't follow the advice. 'Cause everybody says, "I didn't vote for that man at all." I therefore asked Minister Bruins Slot what the democratic legitimacy was; explain it to me. Yes, she said, it stems from a law that was finally adopted by people's representatives. So I don't think that's possible. In such a situation, a kind of Security Council is constantly messing around in all kinds of decisions. It just can't be. What, according to the Minister for Justice and Security, is the democratic legitimacy of the security regions and the Chairman of the Security Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u66	As has been said, there is no decision-making there. Decision-making shall not take place in the Security Council. We can put things there to check whether it is feasible, how something falls within a security region and what it is like to be in contact with all the mayors. It would be even better if we could do that with all the mayors in our country at the same time. I can't. It's very good that we set it up this way. As I said, we are working towards the establishment of a single nationwide crisis management system, together with a renewed legal framework. The Security Regions Act will also be reviewed. What exactly that all looks like will come back in the autumn. I think it's appropriate if I add that I have a lot of respect for the mayors. Not just that of the security regions, but all the mayors in the country, including the chairman of the Security Council. When you see how hard they've been working lately, not just in the context of corona, but in all the other crises we've been talking about and where we're in the middle of right now. Even if it is not directly their own responsibility, they take it up for the region and for the mayors to communicate immediately how they can deal with it. I had already appreciated it very much, but now that I have seen it up close, I have received even more appreciation for it. Again, it is not a decision-making framework. It helps us very much to check whether anything we think is right in the middle of a crisis can also be caught. Look at the Ukrainians: if the mayors hadn't picked it up, we would never have been able to house nearly 70,000 people in our country who are currently fleeing the war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u67	I do not want to fail in the commitment of the staff of the security regions. But if it's not a decision-making body, but you're constantly watching the chairman of the security regions of everything and what to say... I couldn't turn on a talk show, or he was there... then, of course, in practice, people say, "He can tell me more." You yourself say that it is not a decision-making body. No one has chosen these people, so they are not going to follow it all in such a crisis, especially if such a crisis takes a long time. This has proved to be the case in practice. One example is that during that first summer, the minister of health's predecessor tweeted with corona that he had packed his suitcase and went on holiday and threw it all over the fence in the security regions. That was a real mistake. That did not work because people did not know that the security regions were concerned. I didn't even know that the security regions were about that, so how do people who aren't doing politics all day know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u68	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u69	I do not know exactly who deals with the security regions, because in the Netherlands we are good at losing responsibilities, as the well-known professor Elzinga recently said. That's kind of a core business here. But I assume it belongs to the Minister of Justice and Security. In practice, this only works very moderately...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u70	But what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u71	... even though they still work so hard, because the citizen doesn't recognize himself in it. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u72	So I think it has worked very well in practice so far, seeing what the mayors have done. I understand what Mr Otten is saying. I think the first year of corona was a complex time anyway. I can't tell healthcare experts, mayors or anyone else, you can't speak anywhere. You're asking me if I think it worked well. The security regions were hooked up too late, but when they were hooked up, I think it was very valuable. As we know more and more and also make predictable policies, communication is becoming more and more consistent. But that's not something we can force.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u73	I asked the ministers in my term to respond to the "Follow-up Recommendations Approach Corona Crisis - Part 1" of the OVV of 1 July. I would also like to take one of those recommendations from the Minister's point of view, namely that of the government-wide responsibility as a crisis from a department to the national crisis structure. I actually heard the Minister say: we have done this very well, and that is what we are now putting into all kinds of other crisis situations, with the efforts of the Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management. But the OVV still sees some problems there. For example, there is no explicit transfer of the competence of the trade minister to the consultation. They say it in so many words: "The recommendation is not yet being followed." So I see a bit of light between what the Minister has just told us and what the OVV brought out last Friday. So I'd like a reaction to that. And also a response to my question whether the cabinet can quickly come up with an appreciation of this whole follow-up note. After the summer, I find it richly late, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u74	What I meant to say... Let me do it the other way around. I started by saying that we are now also implementing the follow-up to these recommendations from the OVV, aimed at the crisis organisation, and that this is reflected in the Reinforcement Crisis Management and Fire Management Programme. That's what we're working on right now, so it's not like people sit still. We're just gonna make sure of that, just because there are so many elements and lessons there. I meant to say that we are not waiting for that programme to be completely recalibrated. Because unfortunately, I can say for all of us, we are going from crisis to crisis. What we've learned from that, we've been trying to implement as we go along. That's actually being secured in a program. Of course, we must do so together with all the partners involved. That's what we're in the middle of right now. This is all being taken away. The reception of Ukrainians and the asylum crisis take us where we can already do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u75	Perhaps for the sake of clarification: can the Minister indicate which crises are currently being controlled by the Ministerial Committee on Crisis Management. I do not know what it is now called............................................................................................................................................................................................................ Suppose this could be needed again in the summer for the corona crisis, will it be arranged for an explicit task transfer to take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u76	Perhaps I can answer that by taking care of the Ukrainians. But I may have to answer your first question first. The crisis structure that has now been activated is aimed at the asylum crisis. This has to do with the images we see of Ter Apel, where people have to sleep in tents. Those are images no one wants to see. The PVV is right about that. That is actually a structural problem, which you are now engaging in the crisis structure for. Like all other times, that should be as short as possible. We have said that this has to be done, because this simply cannot be done. The previous crisis was the reception of Ukrainians. We had to engage them because of the war and the fact that suddenly there was a stream of people. We still do not know when that will stop, because unfortunately the situation there continues. COA couldn't handle that power. So we had to see how we dealt with this. In it, additional powers of the mayors to be able to absorb are anchored. That has been an emergency legal function. That's what I'm gonna be in the Lower House tomorrow. What we have done with the Ukrainians is this. We have created a new DG within JenV: DG Ukraine, or DG OEK. It belongs to my colleague, the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. We have said: at a time when they can carry it fully and carry on at a speed that people keep coming, so you cannot just fall back on a structure with 'we will see for the next few years' and when they can take it over, we will switch off the MCCb for Ukrainians. The moment we see that that is no longer possible or that something extra is needed, for example because there are suddenly many more people, you can also use that crisis structure again. We switched it off the moment we thought: this can now be secured at the new DG. This will give us a very practical and very clear indication of how we are doing this. With asylum, we will do so in a similar way. The moment that that has led to a breakthrough and at least that people there no longer sleep in tents, you build up the crisis structure again. Then we go back to the regular way, so it's really secured. We will not do that until we see that it is secured, where you can always use that crisis structure when it is needed. This is also a need of the security regions and other partners in the field. So there may be several MCCbs at the same time. I haven't seen that before, but in theory, I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u77	That is a very long answer to a very small part of my question. My question also focused on the political final responsibility and the explicit transfer of responsibility. When does it move from the Minister of Trade to some sort of joint responsibility? If something moves to a crisis structure, who is responsible and who is the contact point? Does this involve an explicit transfer? Does that transfer take place again? How is that arranged when we have a new corona crisis in the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u78	Clear. The trade minister remains responsible, crisis structure or not. Take the Ukrainians again. For that, the Secretary of State was responsible before we started the crisis structure. When I was in charge of the MCCb, he was still professionally responsible for his share. When it comes to education and Ukrainian children, that's Minister Wiersma, when it comes to caring is Minister Kuipers, and so on. The responsibility therefore always remains with the trade ministers. The Minister of JenV or the Prime Minister are the two persons who can chair a crisis consultation. That's how we arranged it with each other. They are chairman, but actually technical chairman, because we do not accept responsibility. It is never taken up in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u79	Finally, Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u80	Finally. I am very curious about the cabinet response to the follow-up note of the OVV. I think he's gonna find something different about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u81	The parts that are being prosecuted are being prosecuted. Then it's Minister Kuipers who takes the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u82	I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security for her presence in this debate. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to your Chamber for the input today. Of course, drawing up a long-term strategy raises questions. It is excellent to discuss this together. First of all, I would like to thank all the parties who have worked so hard over the last long period to make what is now in full swing. I mean the Health Council, the RIVM, the GGD's, the GGD GHOR Netherlands, the expert teams covid care in hospitals, the individual ROAZ regions, the long-term care, the National Network Acute Care, various sectors and many, many others. As indicated in the letter of Parliament, keeping a society open calls for an integrated and preventive approach. The cabinet needs all these different parties. I am very glad that everyone has made such a strong effort. You have also seen its reflection in the previous letters, including the letter on the long-term covid approach. Mr. Chairman. It's been passed a few times, but Corona's not gone. In fact, in recent weeks we have seen an increase in the number of infections, both in the number of positive results and in the average virus load, the number of virus particles in the sewage water. The number of people with covid is also increasing further. In the last 24 hours, the highest number of patients have been admitted to hospitals since mid-April, more than 150. This increase is mainly explained by the advance of new subvariants of omikron, such as the BA.5 variant. You can no doubt remember the last debate I had with you here, then on the Temporary Law measures. Back then, I mentioned to you that that BA.5 variant was already on the rise in the United States at that time. I said something at the time about the number of infections and the number of hospitalisations that resulted from them in the United States. I said that I did not know what this would mean for the Netherlands, but that we had to bear in mind that we would get an increase again. Unfortunately, we're seeing them right now. According to WHO, the new variant is no more sickening than the previous BA.2 variant, which was most recent in the Netherlands. However, already built-up antibodies are less effective against this variant, which makes it easier to spread. It is therefore still important that everyone adheres to the basic opinions. You can dream them, but I would like to repeat them once more: washing hands, coughing and sneezing in the elbow, providing enough fresh air, and staying home in case of complaints and doing a self-test. If that test is positive, go into isolation. And for those who apply: get a booster or a refill, or get a vaccine for the first time, if that hasn't happened yet. Mr. Chairman. A number of times the question has arisen as to what the cabinet is doing and what I am doing as Minister of VWS. Let me make it very clear that I, as the VWS Minister, am responsible for the overarching long-term strategy. Many concrete steps have been taken in the development of this strategy over the past period. I would like to name some of them. First of all, RIVM has moved on to a different way of continuous monitoring of the number of infections, the emergence of new variants and the degree of sickness, or the extent to which the previously accumulated immunity protects against serious disease, either by vaccination or by infection or by both. We are also following closely the international developments of the virus. We are now looking at a different way with new developed monitoring tools. I want to take one example out of it. RIVM now takes a sampling, monitoring on numbers of virus particles and new variants four times a week of all sewage treatment plants throughout the Netherlands. So I can no longer say exactly how many infections have been detected in the Netherlands in recent days. For a long time, we've run both measurements in parallel. Now we can rely on self-tests and the sewer water measurement, which takes place four times a week. As regards testing and vaccinating, the GGDs are currently operating in a "watch flame mode." This provides a basic infrastructure that can be scaled up if the epidemiological situation so requires. The GDPDs have implementation plans ready for the different scenarios and are well prepared. That is a great achievement, because that requires them to keep people at work in their own position, but it also requires a reserve capacity. Part of this is a spare capacity made up of, for example, nurses or medical students. But at some point, these people are going to do their studies, an internship or an education. This reserve therefore requires continuous renewal. This prepares us for the possibility of launching a vaccination campaign for the entire population, which can be scaled up to the maximum level we have had before, of 1.5 million shots per week. The question came across what that means for the tempo. If you scale in six weeks in successive steps from 300,000 a week to 1.5 million, that means that you have put 1.2 million vaccinations in three weeks and you are above 4 million in six weeks. That's a fast pace. Can that be accelerated? You can always look at that, but that then asks to keep even more people at rest in readiness who are not active at that time. So that's a lot of work for the GGDs. Thank you so much for that. I really think it's a great achievement and I'm very grateful to them for that. Similarly, the capacity of tests can be scaled up widely and nationally. They can scale the test capacity to 15,000 per day within two weeks and to 100,000 per day in the next five weeks. It will be clear to you that that is relevant at the time we would be dealing with a variant for which the regular self-tests available are less sensitive, less sensitive. The availability of staff is therefore an important focus. It is a joint and social task. The flexible use of staff is the subject of discussions with, among other things, temporary agency organisations, educational umbrella organisations and Red Cross aid organisations. It also takes into account the lessons learned over the last year and a half in terms of vaccination and testing. How do you do that as efficiently as possible in terms of streamlining, et cetera? A number of steps have been taken in the care sector. In recent years, an expert team has looked intensively at the best practices in all acute care regions, both in long-term care, primary care, hospital care and ambulance care. That has resulted in a report and modules, as you know. Modules have been looked at that are effective, but are not yet widely applied in other places in the country. With these modules the care chain is further optimized and with a new covid wave the regular care can continue as much as possible. For example, we are talking about monitoring patients with oxygen at home, regional coordination of care, task differentiation, further expansion of the National Platform Care Capacity, and other forms of ambulance transport for patients who are not being ventilated but who do receive a high dose of oxygen. I can go on like this for a while. I would like, together with ROAZ's, to make it clear that these good initiatives are being used everywhere in the country. I have explicitly and in writing asked the National Network of Acute Care for this. Another example of the steps being taken in the care sector is the extension of the funding of the modular Basic Acute Care Training. This will allow another 800 students to start this programme this year. This is only a limited number of examples. Much more is happening on the care side to ensure the accessibility of the entire care chain to everyone as best we can, even in the event that we are faced with a further revival of the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u84	I asked a question about the expert team. Maybe the minister's gonna come to that. What is this actually going to do in the context of a new wave of capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u85	I'll get back to you on that in a minute. Monitoring at home is already very intensive in some places and not in others. If I may mention one example of this, I will mention the intensive example of a hospital with several locations in Utrecht and Nieuwegein. This as a single hospital has built up a capacity for monitoring over 4,000 patients at home. This is about patients with covid, but if necessary it can also be used for patients with other conditions, such as chronic lung disease, chronic heart failure and so on. It's one example. It's just one hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u86	I have listened with interest to the answer that is now being monitored in a different way. I have often been in the clinch with the minister's predecessor because I said: the RIVM told something about the effectiveness of the vaccination, but that was not at all the effectiveness with regard to the transmission but the effectiveness with regard to how much chance you have of getting into the hospital. Can we now trust that the effectiveness against transmission, that you can be contagious for others, so to speak, will also be clearly shown in future? Then people don't feel that when they're vaccinated, weeks later they're still not contagious to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u87	In the meantime, I think we can all answer Mr Nicolaï's question as follows. Unfortunately, the risk of a new infection with the currently available vaccines is not prevented. A long time ago, originally, with the availability of vaccinations, there was the hope that the use of vaccinations would lead to a complete containment of the number of new infections. We're popping out the pandemic. It'll be over soon. People have had it or have been punctured and are then immune to infection. We now know that it is not and that people who have been vaccinated can also get the infection. To what extent there is any reduction in the risk of contamination... Seemed to be there so far. But you actually have to look at that every time with the emergence of another new variant. I've just mentioned that the new BA.5 variant seems to be a bit out of line with the earlier protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u88	Does that mean that if you are vaccinated now you are not protected from the new variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u89	Current vaccinations are still highly protective against serious illness and hospitalisation. This means that there is an overrepresentation of people who are not or are not fully vaccinated and of people with a serious underlying condition in the hospital. The latter group of people either builds up less immunity after their vaccination, or they are soon more intelligible for derailing their underlying disease. I just mentioned a category that is also being monitored. Those are chronic heart failure patients. At the time they get an airway infection over it, they are extra bulky for disorder and therefore more seriously ill during hospitalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u90	Finally, Mr. Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u91	I am not a doctor, but if I understand correctly, the Minister actually says: it is only a question of whether you are being protected from illness, although there are indications of this, but it is not excluded that you make others sick when you are vaccinated. If that is the case, then it actually means that they may or may not have been vaccinated to combat the epidemic is no longer relevant. This means that it is no longer relevant to the fight against the epidemic. If that's the case, vaccination doesn't belong in the Wpg either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u92	I understand the question very well, but Mr Nicolaï is just like some of your Members of Parliament, President-in-Office of the Council, who wants to see this black and white, in terms of: vaccination protects or does not protect vaccination; some other measures protect or do not protect. Unfortunately, the world does not look like this in practice. It's not black and white. There is a dampening effect on the risk of infection. Moreover, the extent of this change again with the advent of new variants. The same applies to the latest variant, as far as we know so far. A dampening of such an effect can be called for an individual: I may or may not be infected. At a population level of 1,000 people, 10,000 people or 17.5 million people.................................................................................................................................................................... I mention just the effect of, for example, a 15% reduction of an effect. You know the past discussions about R-values. If you have a 15% reduction and you make a comparison of an R-value of 1.15 versus a R-value of 1.0, then you would keep the same number of infections at a R-value of 1.0 by definition. At an R-value of 1,15 um, that's 15% higher. What are we talking about? Nothing, the difference is so small... means that for a virus with a half-life or a cycle of three and a half days and two cycles per week, a doubling in two and a half weeks! Wait a minute! You say 15% is so little, and yet the lack of such a small protective effect means a doubling in two and a half weeks. That's what it is. That's an exponential course. Every week so much and that goes on and on. Mr. Chairman. In this case, therefore, it is very specific: vaccination has so far been protected, and I cannot say anything about the latest variant, which is in some sense against contamination, but it is absolutely not protection. People who have been vaccinated can become infected or re-infected. But it does protect to a great extent against serious illness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u93	Mr. Karakus. No, Mrs. De Boer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u94	I'm gonna have to insert. You say it somewhat protects against infection, but we are talking about contamination of those who have been vaccinated. The question is a little bit more: does it even work against infecting others?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u95	Sure, same way, because if you don't get infected, you can't infect someone else either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u96	Yeah, but the moment you're infected, doesn't it make sense for the extent to which you can infect others, whether or not you've been vaccinated?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u97	If you're infected, you can also infect someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u98	Since we had that discussion earlier, I thought it would be a good idea to make that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u100	I would like to go back to what the Minister has said. It's quite a lot, a huge laundry list. I cannot see it, but I am concerned about the impact of all these measures. If we compare that with the past waiting lists in the care, the regular care that was under pressure and so on, are we going to experience that again with your measures or are we done with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u101	Unfortunately, we're not off the waiting lists right now. This will not happen in the coming summer period either. I'm very sorry, but the waiting lists are longer than usual. This means that hospitals, apart from the regular care they already have to do, also have to shorten their waiting lists. That's a lot to ask. There's a wide range of bets on that. I recently had a meeting with both the umc's, the general hospitals, the insurers and the independent treatment clinics. It has been agreed that all hospitals will inform all patients on the waiting list, for example for surgery, in months of June, July, August, about the waiting lists and the expected duration, and also specifically and explicitly ask if these patients need mediation, to see if they can be helped faster elsewhere. That is happening now, and you have seen a reflection of it last week, in an advertisement from health insurance companies in the national newspapers. In it, they have called on people who are on a waiting list to report to them to see if they can be mediated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u102	Now the Minister has specifically addressed the waiting list, but my question was much wider, namely: "What will be different? What's gonna be a good thing?" Our proposal is to manage the expectations as well. As you put it, I get the impression that everything that was a bottleneck in the past has now been solved. Can the Minister explain to us, and perhaps through us to the residents, what will be changed with these measures to be taken? What will be different from the previous period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u103	Do you mind if we park that question? I'll come back to care in a very large folder later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u104	Yes, if Mr Karakus agrees. I can see him nodding yes. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u105	This is now the difference between this minister and the previous minister: this minister simply says "vaccination protects to a great extent against serious illness, but not against infection." It's been obvious for a while. I've been looking randomly for a while. I see a tweet from your predecessor of October 15, 2021: "Full vaccination protects you from infection and disease. And you're still testing positive? Then you also reduce the chance for unvaccinated roommates to get infected." Of course, we have heard stories like this for two years, or at least one and a half years, non-stop: "Take the shot and you can't infect anyone anymore." That was very difficult at the time. It is good that the Minister now says: that is not the case. That's what I'm talking about with the catharsis. The Minister is doing it more carefully, but it would be good to just say: we start with a clean slate. I think it's very good that the Minister is just explaining it. Does the Minister agree with me that it is better to say that if there is uncertainty, just as well that if you are in a hospital and you have to undergo a treatment, it is said: the chance that it will work is 60%, but there is also a chance that it will not work? That hasn't happened in the past few years. That is also what caused the enormous distrust and the enormous counter-forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u106	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u107	Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u108	What I do myself, I stress in the debate on vaccination and in the call for people aged 60 and over to get a repeat shot, is very committed to: it protects you from a more serious disease. I'm 62 years old, I'm not overweight and I'm not an underlying disease. Can I then judge at the front and express the expectation that the chance of getting more seriously ill when I get a corona infection is smaller? No, it doesn't work that absolutely. Overweight is a relative risk. An underlying disease is a relative risk. But they're relative risks and not absolute risks. In my case, I'll make sure I get that repeat shot. That's also my communication to citizens: make your own assessment, but my advice is to get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u109	Exactly. That's very good. I also think it is a good thing that a more nuanced approach is now coming to the population. Perhaps your predecessor, I say to the Minister, thought that people could not handle it well and that he was simply going to tell everything blindly. However, I believe that this has led to a huge loss of confidence in the opinions. So that worked counterproductively. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u110	I fully agree that confidence in vaccination and understanding of the relevance of a repeat puncture has been reduced. That's too bad, because we need that very much. People need to be able to make their own decisions. At the same time, I would also like to highlight earlier comments on the situation. Let's go back to the very first vaccination rounds in early 2021. I don't know if you have the same thing as me, which is that in time you need to calculate exactly what year it was, but it was early 2021. Then England was ahead of us. England had already started pricking in December 2020 and we started in January 2021. The interesting thing was that England was forced by very high numbers of infections, and you still know the images of ambulances for the hospitals in London and so on, deviated from the prescription to give two shots and first gave all 50-plussers one shot, half of the dose. They saw a 'dramatic', I say, but in a positive sense they saw a huge drop in the number of people who became seriously ill and in the number of hospitalisations in a very short period of time. Those were the first images. That was also a reflection and a signal. We've been looking forward to those vaccines. They've gotten there incredibly fast. It radiates a kind of positive feeling: with one shot, half the normal dose, you already seem to be able to prevent the infection almost completely. In the meantime, unfortunately, we have become a little more sober and wiser. That is a pity: we would have liked it to be completely gone with two shots, but the situation is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u111	The Minister has just said twice in a row: people have to consider whether they want a repeat shot. Is he going to speak about the question that both I and Mr Van der Voort have asked about this self-direction, or is this the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u112	No, I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u113	You will, okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u114	Mr. Chairman. First, I will go on with my introductory text and then I will come to the cubes, if you will allow it. I had a number of comments, first of all on the legal instruments and the decision-making process. I'll start with the legal instruments. As you know, and as has already been discussed, work is under way on the first instalment of the adaptation of the Public Health Act, creating a structural basis for collective mandatory measures for infectious diseases with pandemic potential such as COVID-19, in the situations where we would need it. The first tranche was consulted on Wednesday 8 June to Wednesday 29 June. I aim to present the bill to the House of Representatives before 1 September of this year. Steps have also been taken in the decision-making process to ensure that it fits well with the two objectives of the corona policy. RIVM provides VWS with a weekly explanation of the epidemiological situation and also places it on their website. On the basis of this explanation, actions are taken if necessary, such as additional monitoring via a particular route or at a particular location. RIVM may also decide to convene the OMT. If the situation gives rise to it, the cabinet will ask the OMT and later the MIT for advice. Supported sector plans will form the basis for possible action. With these steps we are on schedule, in accordance with the previous communication to your Chamber. I would just like to highlight the two final steps: the creation of the MIT and the sectoral approach. I am not doing the long-term strategy alone. It's a cabinet-wide effort. The Minister of SZW is responsible for the Social Impact Team, with the first step in its creation. I will come back to that later. The Minister of EZK, together with the trade departments, is responsible for coordinating the sectoral approach and the sectoral plans. I shall come back to that too. Mr President, that brings me to the question. That's what I want to do in a few cubes, items. The first block will be about vaccination. The second will be about care. The third will be about post-covid complaints and vulnerable. The fourth is about measures. Then the first tranche of Wpg and the legal instruments, the sector plans and the MIT, the OVV and finally there is another heading. Among other things, you can think of the approach and prevention of obesity, zoonoses policy and so on. I shall begin with a number of general questions. Mrs Prins, Mr Otten and Mr Karakus asked questions about opposites, polarisation in society, differences in socio-economic classes and differences of opinion on corona policy. How does the government take her job? Does she clearly show that there is direction and direction? Is the Minister correct on the radar what has been done after two years of corona policy? Trust in the government and visibility of what the government does are extremely important. It is clear that, at a new stage, the government will also have to make a good argument about how to balance interests and explain openly and honestly why any measures, if they need to be taken, may be necessary in that case. That is why we will clearly communicate about dilemmas that are taken into account in decisions. Take, for example, the possible balance between keeping society open and keeping care accessible and accessible to everyone. We are also committed to connecting with and between various groups in society. This is also part of the long-term approach. We do this by visualizing what lives in society, by research and by talking to various organisations. Mr Van Dijk asked about the core of the new policy, which is to keep society open. This means that as a whole, we are responsible for this. Are the conditions for taking that responsibility by society itself in order? And what exactly does that mean? Fighting a crisis like this can only be done together as a society. Taking responsibility means not only waiting for a government to take action, but also looking at opportunities and what you can do within your own environment. People can take responsibility for themselves by taking into account the basic opinions I have just mentioned. We ask social sectors in the long-term strategy to take responsibility by preparing appropriate preventive measures. After all, they themselves often know best what works for them, in their own situation. It is then up to the government to properly organise a number of cross-compliance conditions and, for example, to provide input from infection prevention and hygiene on those sector plans. We are also busy with local authorities, for example through the Security Council. Mr Van der Voort asked whether the Minister agreed that covid is not a seasonal virus and whether he could no longer call it that. It is clear that covid does not only spread in autumn and winter. In fact, we are dealing with revivals all year round, as we are now. So there's not a season in which covid isn't there at all. But so far, based on experience of only two and a half years, there seems to be a seasonal effect. There is therefore a seasonal effect, but I fully agree with Mr Van der Voort that if we use the term'seasonal virus', it seems to imply that there are no infections during this period, and therefore communicates an incorrect message.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u115	I was just waiting for the answer about preventing polarization. You mention a block, and all I hear back is that we are going to communicate clearly about our dilemmas and that trust in the government is important. Are these the two points that you propose as a measure to combat, prevent or address polarisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u116	Communication has also been mentioned, and I will say something about this separately later. That is very important, but in the sense of having a conversation with a lot of parties, to hear what is alive and what attention should be paid to. A number of examples have just been mentioned of the wrong interpretation in the discussion of whether or not a vaccination protects against new infection or from being able to infect another. If that kind of signal comes, then we have to use it as RIVM, as a GGD or as a department, and also myself, targeted communication. As I have said many times, it is really important for people to be able to make their own assessment of whether or not they are being vaccinated. That is a trade-off whereby you have to respect another's decision, even if it is a decision to be vaccinated. I regularly see expressions, including on social media, that when people are called up or decide to get a repeat shot, there is a strong response to that. I also think that this is something we should avoid and focus on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u117	I think we're gonna have a little chat. You're talking about communication between residents and government and trust. I think we can agree on that. But I'm talking about polarization between the residents and between the groups. That is far more serious than the way you describe it now. My request to the Minister, but that does not have to be now to do more research, to deepen it, and to come up with a concrete approach. Only with communication we're not gonna make it, is my assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u118	I totally agree with that, so I'm also giving a broader answer than just communication. We must not ignore this; I am giving a broader answer. It's not just my own thing, either. That really is something of the cabinet as a whole. Polarisation can be found on many different topics. The focus was very much on covid for a while. Now it's on other subjects again. I do not have the illusion that covid will not give rise to further polarisation again if at some point we are faced with a much more advanced situation of covid, and for example a variant or the number of infections calls for a possible new repetition round. So I totally agree with you. This is also a focus that such a Social Impact Team will undoubtedly focus on in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u119	Finally, Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u120	My specific question is: do you want to come up with a sound approach to how you see it, how you see it in your cabinet? 'Cause you're standing here on behalf of the Cabinet. Can we talk about that sometime? That's my question. It doesn't have to be now, but it would be nice if you would come up with a letter or something that would indicate what you're thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u121	We are talking here about the long-term covid approach. Let me really focus on what we are doing in communication and in consultation around situations and with the Social Impact Team. You know that on many issues there has been continuous monitoring of what is happening and how we should address it. The Minister of JenV has just left, but a few other elements have already passed, whether it is about the current situation in Ukraine, for example, or about the questions about nitrogen, nitrogen policy and its impact. There are other things to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u122	On the previous point and on the reply to Mr Van der Voort on the seasonal virus. That gives people a completely wrong picture. For example, we would have a much milder situation in Spain. I remember our daughter spent six weeks in her apartment, so to speak, only under police supervision to do an errand at the nearest grocery store. Have we now finally said goodbye to the term "season" when we are talking about covid and can we just talk about it always being there, perhaps one time more or less than the other time? It really gives me the wrong picture, even for anyone who travels to warm places this summer, when we say: it is not that bad, because it is warm and dry, so we have less trouble with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u123	It's not black and white. This is only the third year, but so far there seems to be a seasonal effect. I am very reluctant to name it. I'm answering a specific question. There seems to be a seasonal effect. Is it only a seasonal disorder, in the sense of: this condition only occurs in a certain period of time? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're in July and we have an increasing number of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u124	That would mean that we only have a kind of seasonal effect in the Netherlands, but that this does not play in other places, because they know other seasons there. It sounds really lame, but it's really meant to make people aware of the following. Of course, we have always said: if it is autumny, it all gets worse. But it's bad now and it can get worse. I think it's good to get that awareness in people's ears, as well as the realization that if you go to warm places, it's no less bad than here in the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u125	I think Mr Janssen and I are in complete agreement. That's right, of course, of course. We have seen high levels of contamination in places like Singapore and in places where average temperatures are significantly higher all year round than here. By the way, there are also seasons, but of other seasons. This also means other factors, in terms of potential carriers and effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u126	Back to that polarization, which was also mentioned by the previous speaker. 'We're going to communicate better' I think that's an understatement of the problem, as Mr Karakus pointed out. I didn't take a look this morning for nothing. Some people asked, "Why do you have to do all that?" Because that's where the cause of the polarization is. The polarisation in the Netherlands is much larger than in other countries that have faced the same problems. This cannot be separated from the policy that has been pursued over the last two years. As a result, a huge distrust has arisen, which has also been stirred up by conspiracy creators. I just saw that a farm demonstration got completely out of hand because it was hijacked by coronawappies. This is now also going to spread in all kinds of other matters. That can't only be solved with a little communication. One does not want a mea culpa, one does not want a reflection, and one does not want a catharsis. So the question to the Minister is: how do you solve it? I didn't make that comparison with the Corner and Cod Twist for nothing, which permeated forever and ever. At some point, I don't think anyone even knew what it was about. That process is now under way. How do we solve that? How do we get out of that circle? I do not find the answer to this point very convincing so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u127	Your room can help me. Let me begin by saying that I do not underestimate the degree of polarisation on the subject of covid. I see that every day in the response I get in all kinds of ways. I only have to put the most simple message on social media, for example saying something positive in the context of the Day of Care and writing a praiseworthy word about nursing. In no time, there is an endless response from "this minister..." and then there will be a lot of things. I also see it in the way employees are approached in the care or at the GGD. I also see it in the response "I therefore call this "" which sometimes get people who are well informed for themselves to consider and say: I take such a repeat shot." I can see that in the discussions. You can see all that. I'm not underestimating that at all. But apart from communicating and informing properly, and quite clearly saying that it is a freedom to make a decision of what you want, for example with regard to vaccination, I really mean that and I stand for that, even as a former doctor I stand for my own freedom to decide, and there may also be a tendency back. This means that misinformation and disinformation must be pushed back. Let me give you the example of the number of reports that we are still receiving on medicines that we should be taking and which we would not be doing sufficient research on. There are many other examples. There is no simple solution. I am only watching for the call to see if I, as Minister of the United States of America, would like to think deeply about polarisation across society, on all parts. That's not entirely up to me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u128	Mr Karakus also said that this polarisation was caused by covid, of course, from the benches. I can remember from the first covid wave, in March 2020, that there was no polarization. Then people were all clapping for care. It was all "You'll never walk alone" and everyone was bonding. And then that temporary law came and all these fundamental rights were restricted. That's what we warned you about: don't do it, don't do it, don't do it. But all that was continued anyway. That's where it went wrong. It's a little Air Crash Investigation, isn't it? What went wrong in the cockpit? Well, that's where it went wrong. Then came the beautiful stories about pricking, pricking and pricking and "we're poking ourselves out." Very large groups of people have been disappointed by that. They are then excited by comments like "it's because of the WEF" and I know what about all these conspiracies. I also got all those insults thrown at my head, with all sorts of remarks about overweight. That doesn't bother this minister. I'll keep it tidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u129	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u130	I do not really hear an answer to the question of how the cabinet is going to put this into effect. It is really worse in the Netherlands than in other countries, is my impression. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u131	I can't exactly make the comparison with other countries. There are countries with a more uniform and supportive image. The European examples, as far as I can see, are Denmark and Portugal. There are also countries where opinions on, for example, vaccination or the approach to covid differ even more than in the Netherlands. I will not list all the examples, because then you will get a response. Those examples are there. Mr Otten knows him, too. I can't make the international equation. Here's what I know. I'll take a look at the care. Mr Otten was right to say that there was at first applause for the concern. After that, the framing has been a very long time that we need to take certain measures to relieve the burden of care. I was a caregiver myself at the time, and I have said many times everywhere that I think that is a very unfortunate framing. You don't have to relieve the burden of care. Care's always busy. There's a bed. There's an ER room. There's a patient over there, and he'll help you. So it's not about the relief of care. The point is that we live in a country where we are in the fortunate circumstance that the help is there when you need it, even if it is urgently needed. This applies to a severe anxiety in covid. This applies to chest pain and heart attack, but so does a diagnosis of cancer and surgery. That was under pressure for a long time. Something has just been said about the RIVM report. That's what you do it for. You're doing it for each other. You do it for yourself, for your partner and so on. Let me give you one example. Sorry for the long answer, Mr. Chairman. I was in close contact with the nurses back then. I was still working at the Erasmus MC back then. A nurse spoke to me. She said: in my family many people have not been vaccinated, I have, and now one of my family members has been diagnosed with severe cancer and he needs surgery in the short term; I see what that does with the discussion in the family about whether or not to vaccinate. Of course, it is never about one family member or another, but suddenly it became very clear: it was very doubtful whether the surgery of the family member with cancer could be done within six weeks, while another unvaccinated relative would be on a hospital or ic-bed immediately if he were given covid. That's what it was all about. It wasn't about taking care of it. Then I'm also looking at the discussion from a department. Stop the discussion and naming "the relief of care." It's about whether we all want to keep the accessible. Do we find it a kind of basic fact that if you get sick in the Netherlands, there is care for you? If so, then you must take action against a virus that comes in and is seriously ill for some people and against which no one has any response at first. If you don't, you'll get the situations that were in some places abroad. If you do and you have to make choices as a nurse or a doctor, you still have to deal with situations where the RIVM report is now an impact. We see a great loss of healthy years of life. Mr Otten and I know very well that the pain behind it is felt not only by the individual, but also by the professionals who take care of these patients. We have to do something about that first. We have to bring that back to: if we want something, we do it together, then you do it for each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u132	Finally, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u133	I totally agree with that. I've been looking for that RIVM study for the past few days, and then I saw another study from RIVM, which was published yesterday. It's connected to the polarization. It appears that the mood for the National vaccination programme is somewhat falling. It doesn't fall very much yet, but it also drops before vaccination against measles, for example. 95% vaccination is needed, I believe, to effectively protect the population. You can now see that polarization in its generality has other effects on that vaccination readiness. He's freaking out. Is that what the Minister's worried about? How can we stop that? Of course, we should not have all the children who are vaccinated, babies and so on, all kinds of anti-vax events happen. Then we're a lot further away from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u134	I'm totally sharing that. That decline is critical and worrying in that respect. You really want to try to bring that drop back. Of course, parents make a decision for their kid. On the basis of faith or something else, you can decide not to do that vaccination. I think it is very wise to continue to inform very well, but you cannot proceed to compulsory vaccination. That drop is really worrying. At some point it also affects children who are so young that they are not yet in the vaccinated age. We are now, of course, living in a world that also seems very makeable in the field of health care. It's weird that sometimes people seem to forget the impact of infectious diseases, even though it hasn't been that long. The generation of the parents of Mr Otten, my parents, the parents of the chairman or the parents of most of us has had to deal very actively with all kinds of infectious diseases for which the advent of vaccinations was a blessing. My mom had polio when she was a kid. She survived, but she's had residual effects her whole life. My mother passed away a long time ago, but if she were to sit here and hear a discussion about how the number of vaccinations for these kinds of diseases is going down, she wouldn't understand a thing. I think this applies to all our parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u135	I'd like to clear up a misunderstanding. I did not ask the Minister to offer a broad solution to polarization. We're talking about the long-term vision today. In my speech, I said that I will not look back, but I will talk about the long-term vision. In previous debates, we have identified polarisation as an important issue. This has come back to all the debates. Mr Verkerk has talked about this very often. Mrs Prins and Mr Otten, among others, have also mentioned this. Several parties have therefore pointed this out. I notice that polarization has not been given a place in the long-term vision. I am concerned about whether we are aware of this. We'd be communicating openly and sketching dilemmas. Polarization is a dilemma. That has been mentioned a great many times. In my opinion, it has also given the impression that this part would be given a place in the long-term vision, but I miss that. My question is: does it get a place in the long-term vision of covid?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u136	Clear. Thank you for the additional explanation by Mr Karakus. I agree that it is extremely relevant to reach out to specific groups and see how you can provide them with information and hear during the conversation what their concerns are, why they make certain choices, whether we can help them with them etc. So that's what we're trying to do in a lot of ways. If the question is whether, in another letter on covid, I would like to come back to that separately, I would like to do so wholeheartedly. Mr. Chairman. That is automatically the bridge to Mr Meijer's question. He asked: what is being improved in the short term in communication and in alignment with the different target groups? We have continued to actively communicate over the past period on the development of the virus, on the elaboration of the long-term strategy and on the importance of complying with the basic recommendations. We are also stepping up these efforts now. For example, last week and this week in national newspapers and in house-to-house newspapers there were ads to emphasize that corona is not gone. This is separate from the discussion about seasons and so on that contaminations occur and that compliance with basic advice remains important. Last Friday, a radio campaign was launched to highlight the importance of self-testing in complaints and isolation in a positive test.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u137	I have a very short question. I've seen the ads, too, but I haven't heard the radio commercials. I was wondering if the impact of this would also be measured. Is this also what this means for opinion-forming? If so, I am actually assuming that this is happening. Would the Minister be able to tell us more about this in one of his subsequent letters? I have some background in that world. I looked at it and wondered how much impact it has. So I'm just wondering if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u138	Yeah, you can. And yes, we monitor that. We must continue to realise very well what the impact is on those who still need a repeat shot. You have to keep doing it, and at some point it's also the law of reduced yield, no matter how difficult it is. That does not alter the fact that every time we have to look for another way of getting this out of the picture. This can be done by approaching groups as finely as possible, or by doing it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u139	I'd love to wait and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u140	Without thinking about it in extenso, I'd like to mention something about communication. I received a number of comments from the Court that it was deafeningly silent with regard to public communication in this field. I'd like to take that away. We have extensive communication. We do this through press contacts, interviews, social media, support channels for specific target groups, such as very specific organisations. We also do it through Rijksoverheid.nl, door-to-door magazines, radio campaigns, etc. I've got a whole A4 here. I won't go through it from top to bottom, but just over the past period we've already had an ad long-term campaign, campaign self-test and isolation, the corona guide through the GGDs and the social media, the information on the repeat prick 60+. I can go on like this for a while. I think that is at least what I am saying about communication. Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, I'm really coming to a completely different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u141	I think there's a lot of communication, too. I never criticized that. My question was whether we are going to communicate target audience-oriented, because from the past we have learned that this is much more important than generic communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u142	The answer is yes. That's what's in it: as specific as possible, target-oriented and possibly targeted when it comes to vaccination. If that's what it takes, it will. Mr. Chairman. Mr Meijer asked: should we only approach covid as a crisis? In the past this has indeed been approached as such. Meanwhile, we're in a different phase. Hence the long-term approach. We will see in the next longer period whether the virus has become endemic and whether it leads to high numbers of cases. Mr. Chairman. Mr Janssen asked about the concrete scenarios. The Minister of JenV has already said something about it. The cabinet has developed four scenarios, based on the scenarios of the WRR and the KNAW. These outline the possible epidemiological developments of the virus, ranging from light, the cold scenario, to heavy. If the epidemiological situation requires, the government is ready to scale up, among other things, the testing and vaccination campaign. I've already said something about that. Sectoral plans are currently being drawn up. The sectoral plans describe prevention and intervention measures that are workable for the sector. We do that with a check and the input comes from infectious disease experts. I am pleased that sectors are taking this seriously and making sure that good plans are put on the table. The adoption of measures will then be based on the explanation of the epidemiological situation of RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u143	Thank you for the answer, Minister. If the Minister says that there are four scenarios, from light to heavy, does that mean that there is an implementation on paper of all scenarios, in which sector plans can play a role to a certain extent, and that there may be a need for additional action from the Empire? Is that how I'm supposed to imagine the four scenarios? I particularly care about the performance, because the theory I understand. What are we going to do when such a scenario occurs, and this is particularly about the relationship with the sectoral plans and additions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u144	The answer is yes. Some of the examples are already available. Over the past period of increasing the number of infections, for example with yesterday's reports, I have seen that long-term care institutions once again advise their members to use preventive masks in specific situations. That's an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u145	Actually, I'm looking for it a little bit more from the minister. He says there are four scenarios. My question is whether the implementation of these four scenarios is in order. Is that ready so that it is clear where the sectoral plans can play a role? Were they analyzed on that? Are we ready yet? Are they sufficiently worked out and are they complete, so that it is clear: so far we can implement scenarios one, two, three and four with the sector plans and above that we will have to do something else, otherwise we will no longer meet what we want to achieve? My specific question is whether you are ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u146	Yeah, that's what we're trying to do. Am I ready, because all the sector plans are already there? No, they're not everywhere yet. So I haven't gotten there yet. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the block on vaccination. First of all, I come to the question by Mrs De Boer, Mr Van der Voort and Mrs Prins: what is against the fourth punch for anyone who feels vulnerable? In the elderly, people with Down syndrome and people with severe immune impairment, the protection of vaccination against severe disease decreases more rapidly. They are therefore offered the fourth shot. For other groups, the booster, the previous third shot for most people, still provides adequate protection against serious disease by COVID-19, regardless of underlying suffering. The position of the Health Council, the RIVM, the ECDC, the European Centre for Disease Control, and the EEA is that, in the current epidemiological situation, there is therefore no medical scientific need to offer a refill to people under 60 years of age, with the exception of the group with serious underlying problems as mentioned earlier. The administration of vaccination without medical need is not permitted and may lead to the liability of the parties concerned. Offering a repeat shot without medical necessity is also undesirable to me. Vaccinating is, after all, a medical practice which requires careful health balance. This is an excellent example, given the multitude of questions. It requires very good, clear and repeated communication and explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u147	I understand the answer in such a way that there is no medical need. I see a lot of reports, and I assume that the minister who sees them too, of people who think they have vulnerable health, but who do not fall within the criteria of those who have had a call for that shot. They now consider themselves insufficiently protected. The Minister says that there are insights that this group is still sufficiently protected by a booster. My first question is, above all, very factual. Is there any way to tell how long the protection will last after your booster shot? How long will you be adequately protected? Then those people might have a perspective about when they get their next booster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u148	In the beginning of my introduction I mentioned the Health Council and the RIVM. In the past, there was a certain moment, a new variant, a vaccine, etc. Then the Health Council was asked to advise on the use of that vaccine for that specific virus. That was a specific advice. That meant, in a manner of speaking, that a question was asked today and that the Health Council met next week. That obviously took some time, because they had to think carefully and collect all the data. Within so much time we had the advice and then we could decide whether or not to take it over. On the basis of my questions in the last few months, the Health Council has turned this around. They have come up with general advice on whether or not to re-vaccine everyone or a specific group, depending on the evolution of the number of infections, the emergence of a new variant and the extent to which people are still protected from more serious disease by previous vaccination and/or infection. There is the factor of that variant itself. Possibly the factor of time is also involved. What RIVM is doing now is every two weeks, and if necessary more often, that general advice is re-using for the assessment of today's situation. So every two weeks RIVM comes with the advice "still waiting" or with the advice "still getting a repeat shot." In reply to Mrs De Boer, I say that at the moment the estimate is that for the 60-min group without a serious underlying disease and without Down's syndrome the last boost, the third shot, adequately protects against serious disease. So so far, the RIVM's advice is still not to use that reprick widely. However, with the following opinion, at the next moment of calibration, as has been said, a new opinion may be different every two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u149	I understand from the Minister that this advice is based on a weighting of three factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u150	Yes. Number of infections, new variants and the extent to which previous vaccinations or disease have been protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u151	I can imagine those factors in a mix leading to a certain opinion. Only, there is a group of people who think: I am not interested in the number of infections and those new variants, I am particularly interested in the one variable, namely the level of protection of the previous booster. Does the Minister recognise that there may be individual differences in this respect? There may be people who do not belong to the group with the most severe immune impairment, but for whom, if they are infected, the risk of severe suffering is much greater. These are obese people or people with other diseases that do not belong to those serious immune diseases. For them, the single variable is particularly important. How can we deal with these people? In fact, the question is: what is against doing something with the urgent advice to everyone over 60 years old to take that booster? Can we not also offer the possibility of taking that booster for certain groups or for those who consider it necessary for themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u152	In two steps. The first question is: what can people who are seriously overweight do, for example? They can have the conversation with their doctor and get a repeat shot through that doctor. A doctor, a treating medical specialist, may issue a certificate to that effect. It's possible. Part of it happens. People can also say: I don't have such a specific situation, but I'm still asking for that booster. If, in consultation with a doctor, it turns out that all these specific situations do not apply to them and therefore there is no explanation from that doctor, then what is against giving that booster anyway? Then we'll have another discussion. The EEA advises at this time I don't have the literal text with me, but I can quote it in the second term if necessary not to use the existing vaccines as a repeat for the category 60-min. So if I make wide vaccinations available to people, at their own request, against the advice of the EEA, then that means that we as a department and the GGD are also responsible for that use. I am extremely reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u153	Maybe one last question. I hear the Minister now saying that those who consider themselves vulnerable can, in consultation with their doctor, see if they can apply for vaccination. Previously, I understood that this can only be done on the basis of a severe immune disorder, so not on the basis of obesity, for example. I think that many people are already helped when the Minister says that doctors can deliver this on the basis of the estimation that if people are infected, they will become seriously ill. If that is the case, then I think a lot of people are already very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u154	I don't want to enter into the doctor's individual interview with the patient concerned. It is really a question of weighing up a serious underlying condition and not broader than that, for reasons as has just been mentioned. Then we really get on a path where the government is liable if necessary if any incident would occur.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u155	Finally, Mrs De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u156	"A serious underlying condition" I find broader than "a severe immune disorder." If the Minister agrees with me, it gives doctors a little more room to act than they think they have now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u157	I would like to refer to the indication and approval of the EEA. Again, I don't have the literal text here, but I really want to stay within the approvals of the EEA, for reasons as mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u158	The Minister's comment on the RIVM's biweekly reorientation on the vaccination advice was interesting. Is the consideration that RIVM makes of this also insightful every two weeks for anyone who wants to get an insight into it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u159	If the question is whether "invisible" means that every two weeks a written opinion comes to me, then the answer is "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u160	Or maybe on the website? I think it would help a lot of people if they could read on what grounds a trade-off is being made every two weeks, making it safe for them not to get that vaccination. That is my first question to the Minister. Is it possible that, for example through the website of the RIVM or otherwise, that will become available?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u161	I think that's a welcome suggestion. I'd like to ask if that's possible, if you'd like to take it with you in consultation with the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u162	I'm very happy about that. The question we have asked about repeated vaccination on our own initiative stems from the need for people to direct their own health and disease. Is there any way that people can do that with regard to vaccinations?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u163	I don't know what the situation will look like in the future. At the moment there is no such possibility, other than that people have the opportunity to take the vaccination within the indicative areas we have set out. At the moment, these are the areas as we have mentioned them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u164	But could it be that the Minister asks the advisory bodies, for example the RIVM or the Health Council, or, as we do here, that is perhaps possible in time? Or does it ask what is against it? In any case, there should be more clarity than just the rules that have been drawn up now, because they have been drawn up from a different perspective. Now the question is actually the other way around. Could we have an opinion on this from any authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u165	No, that's extremely difficult, because it's too situational. It's really a trade-off at a time. At the moment when people in today's setting, with today's level of infection, with the now dominant variant with a certain effect, get a repeat shot and we don't know what kind of variant there will be in a month, three months or four months, while agencies like RIVM or the EEA now assess that there is no indication for that, it may be that in some time we will come to the conclusion that if we had moved something in time, we would have been much more focused. Let me give you another example. At the beginning of this year, at a high contamination pressure, with a highly contagious variant, we deliberately chose to completely lift the measures in four steps. I said at that time that would lead to a high number of infections. I mentioned in a press conference at some point the number of 80,000 a day. We know afterwards that the total number in a peak was over 100,000 a day. But I could do that because the people with the greatest risk of serious illness, the groups as mentioned, had had a repeat shot just at the end of November, at the beginning of December. From data from abroad, we already knew that maximum protection against serious illness lasted for three months. If you postpone it further, you know you'll get a wave later while the protection has been taken away. It is therefore always a strategic choice. What's the big deal now? What variant and to what degree of protection are we? It's not always all gratuitous. This can also mean that if you increase the interval between vaccinations for some groups, the response and protection in the long term will eventually be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u166	Finally, Mr. Van der Voort.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u167	It remains a little uncomfortable for me that we cannot accommodate these people, who want to be in charge of it themselves. I understand from the Minister that there is no room for that at the moment. I am very pleased with the commitment that he will talk to the RIVM about the insights into the considerations for vaccination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u168	In the trade-off for 60-minners who want to obtain an additional vaccination voluntarily, the Minister states very clearly and repeatedly that it is a question of the risk of liability. That aspect of liability presupposes certain risks. Can the Minister describe them? Can he also explain why these risks would not be present in the context of liability with the third injection?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u169	With every medical procedure, every medication and every vaccination, there is always a risk of a side effect, on something you do not mean but what can occur. You can do the same with these vaccinations. If the frequency is very low, it becomes relevant when you apply the vaccinations in very large numbers. If you do the application within the indication and approval as there is... You say this is offered to a group, with information, and this fits within the indication and approval for which it is, but not in any other way. If you do it outside the indication, you have a problem as a government, or as a GGD, or as which party is being addressed. You've given something outside the indication. I understand the underlying question very well. With regard to the risk of complications, with all the visibility we have now, with very large numbers of people worldwide who have had these vaccinations, the individual risk of complications is very small. But that's not zero. If you're going to apply that in large numbers, in people where the indication currently, with the data we have now, doesn't exist, then you have to think twice before you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u170	I think it's a little tricky. I also read in the documents that the Minister speaks of 'as high a vaccination readiness as possible' and that people should be vaccinated again and so on. This is still a bit of a general strategy: a high vaccination rate as a goal. At the same time, it seems that there is now a group that needs it and is therefore held back because of certain liability risks for the government. So my question is as follows. Can the Minister indicate, with regard to the group that would like to do so, who would like to get an extra reply voluntarily, whether they can do so responsibly? Or are there really serious complications at the root of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u171	We're getting in a bit of a circle. Those serious complications risks... These risks are extremely small. With everything we know now and with the large numbers of vaccinations, as you know, that have been put not only in the Netherlands but worldwide, those complications are extremely low. They're not zero. We are now entering the difficult situation where your overalls for all 12-plussers, or at least for all 18-plussers, want the percentage of people who have had the basic series of vaccinations to be as high as possible. You also want that for the booster shot to be as high as possible. You also want this to be as high as possible for the repeat shot for 60-plussers and for people from a number of categories. For most people that is the fourth shot and for those who have had Janssen as a base, that is the third. Now there are a number of people who do not fall into that last category of exception, who are under 60 and do not have an underlying condition, who ask if they can still get a repeat shot. I say that is not indicated at the moment. We need to communicate that properly. So we are not going to do that either, unless we are told in consultation with our own medical specialist: the risk is indeed such that... Then there are categories: people who have had a transplant before, people who... and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u172	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u173	Yeah, finally. Then you get a situation that I find difficult to explain, because you get a category of people from 12 years old, it is also said to those who are said: go get a third vaccination if necessary. While it is said to people in the category up to 60 years, who want to obtain a fourth vaccination, there are too many risks, we are not in favour of it as a government because we can be held liable. It's hard to reconcile, isn't it? How does the Minister look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u174	Again, the risk of side effects following vaccination is extremely small, even in 60-minners. Only we hear all the parties that are going on about this now. I have mentioned them: EEA, ECDC, RIVM, say: at the moment, with this variant, there is no indication of a recurrence for this group at the present rate of infection and the extent to which the previous vaccination is still protecting. That's one. If there's no indication and you still want a vaccination, a medicine... That is the same as asking a nurse or a doctor if he or she would please inject a medicine, while there is no indication. Yes, then we say: no, we do not; there is no indication of that. You can ask, but I'm just not gonna do it. The second is that also in time... We're not done with corona. There will almost certainly come a time when the number of infections continues to increase. There will undoubtedly also come a time when we will have to deal with another variant. That is a time when for many people their last vaccination has been a little longer. At the moment, there are some clues, I'm going to follow the RIVM now that it would be wise for this particular group to stretch it a little longer. So there's two things coming together. There's no medical indication right now, then you go against the medics. And it seems epidemiologically wise to stretch something more. Until when, we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u175	I still have one more question. You mentioned a medical specialist in a serious condition. Does that mean it can't be the GP?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u176	We've specifically discussed this with the GPs. They see, and that is a bit in line with the discussion about the workload and so on, at the moment there is no possibility for them to play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u177	But if I went to the general practitioner with a serious condition, which I fortunately do not have, as far as I know, and I would be under 60 years old, which unfortunately is no longer the case, it is as simple as that, but what if the general practitioner says no?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u178	Now the doctor says: contact your medical specialist. I'll give you what the LHV, the family doctor's association, said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u179	Yeah, but it's not that bad. That is actually my second question in that regard. I can see why you're saying not for anyone who'd like to. I understand that, too. But there is a large group of vulnerable people with all kinds of conditions, for which they do not walk with a medical specialist, because we do not do so until the very last moment, but who are being treated with a general practitioner. When I think about this group of people and when we talk about wanting people to understand the policy, I find it difficult to explain this: a healthy 60-year-old, who is not under any treatment, is vaccinated, while a vulnerable person, who is explicitly being treated by a general practitioner, does not have the opportunity to be vaccinated. So that's what I'm bumping into. I can't explain it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u180	I understand. I understand the burden of explaining it very well. I do it here myself and I find that I've done it a lot before. That also calls for it to be done as well as possible. I would also like to refer to the comments made earlier on the websites of GGD, government or RIVM. But the situation is as follows. We can give people under 60 a repeat shot, but then there has to be a medical indication and the general practitioners say in this situation, on grounds that I understand too, that this must be done through the medical specialist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u181	Finally, Mrs. Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u182	I continue to find this special, because these people already come to the GP. There is already contact, so the only thing that has to happen is that instead of a recipe they get an agreement that they are indeed suffering from underlying suffering. That does not seem to me to be an additional task for the general practitioner. I fully understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u183	I think the easiest solution is, as some of your Members of Parliament have suggested, to open it up to anyone who wants it, regardless of age. I've indicated why we don't. I would be delighted to do so, but there are good grounds for not doing so now. Then it asks for a good explanation. I understand that the general practitioners say: "The moment that we have to have that discussion for many patients... We are just right now up to here in our work. We do not see any role for us in this at the moment." That means they'll be referring to the medical specialist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u184	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u185	That brings me to Mr Van Hattem's question. Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. You saw me hesitate for a moment if I had already had this question. I didn't answer it so explicitly. The question was: what does a higher vaccination rate say about the level of protection? It was also about a vaccine for the current variant only in October. The current vaccines are still well protected against serious disease caused by COVID-19, even in the current dominant variant. In this respect, vaccination is best to prevent hospitalisation, another form of intake or oxygen at home. We are constantly watching together with the other European countries when any other vaccine becomes available. We will, of course, use this in a vaccination round when it is available and when it is appropriate. Mr. Chairman. We've already had a few questions. Mrs Nanninga asked: does the Minister think that the vaccination rate can still be increased? Is it realistic to expect significant groups to be vaccinated? I share with Mrs Nanninga all the way here for a moment I referred to it as 'the law of changed yields'................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If we look at the fine-meshed vaccination, we can see that we are currently at a total of 3,000 people per week who have their first and their second vaccinations, so a basic series. That's not much. It's only going up very slowly. But is it still worth it? I think so. So we're just gonna keep going that way. I am now in the process of stepping up the campaign for the repeat prick, which has already been mentioned. This means that in the next two weeks 4.7 million people will be reminded of this. Mr Van Hattem asked: "How free is a vaccination choice if there are restrictions on freedom? Isn't there any kind of vaccination compulsion or urge?" At the moment, there are no corona measures in the Netherlands that limit people's daily lives. In this respect, vaccination status has no impact. In the Netherlands, citizens have always had the choice to be tested or vaccinated, or to have access to facilities on the basis of a proof of recovery, but that is not happening at the moment. Travelling abroad is in some cases subject to a vaccination certificate. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dijk asked: the vaccines are not the high wall that was expected; how does the Minister consider this against the measure taken by the Ctb and the DCC? From previous stages of the epidemic we know that the vaccines at the time of the alpha period and the delta period reduced the chances of transmission and infection. Currently manufacturers are working on modified vaccines, which hopefully will have a stronger effect on omikron variants in terms of transmission as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u186	The Minister says that there is currently no question of asking for test certificates, vaccination certificates and the like. But in the meantime we have the change of the Wpg already in consultation, where this is indeed in. There is talk of making a distinction based on a result: a test result or vaccination against the virus, which causes an infectious disease belonging to the group A1, or restoration of an infection of the virus. So this is indeed in the proposed plans and can be implemented when this law comes through. The Minister is also already discussing the possibility of a CTA for the economic sectors to use it as they wish. Can the Minister explain how these policies and proposed legislation relate to his statement that it is now without consequences? Because those consequences are likely to come again now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u187	I do not agree with Mr Van Hattem that these consequences are now imminent. I do not intend to re-introduce that corona ticket within now and at any time.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But there may be a situation. So if Mr Van Hattem's question is "can you absolutely exclude that you will ever come up with a proposal to...?', Then I say, no, I can't rule that out. Only now, at this moment, do I have any intention? The answer is no. What the sectors come up with and what they are asking for is really up to the sectors themselves. Suppose they come up with a proposal for the possibility of a corona admission ticket and I wouldn't be surprised at all if they come up with it for individual sectors, then we will have to look at it at that time. But for now the answer is: there is no such possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u188	The Minister says clearly: the possibility does not exist now. But he is in the process of creating a legal basis to make that possible again. That's what worries me. So by taking that step, it can be put back in place, for example, if that law was passed in the autumn. We are talking about the long-term approach. Can the Minister also explain how this relates to this long-term approach? Should this law be passed, are we still in the coming autumn or winter period with a legal basis that will make this possible again? Because apparently the Minister has that legal basis in preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u189	We don't have a ctb right now. We won't have a ctb in the foreseeable future either. If we ever came to the introduction of a Ctb, there would still be many discussions ahead of it. So it's going to be a very hypothetical discussion based on something that just isn't there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u190	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u191	But it's in the consultation law for the change of the Wpg. Then the Minister says "it is not there," but it is now before and in September it will probably be dealt with in the House of Representatives. So how does that relate to "it's not there"? Can the Minister at least indicate whether he is prepared to take that ctb out of that consultation law, or at least out of that proposed wpg? Because if it's not there, it doesn't have to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u192	The discussion on a Ctb is not appropriate in this respect, and I am very sorry about this. There's no ctb. There's no ctb tomorrow either. If we were to have a discussion about a ctb, we would first need an additional study in terms of the possible impact in a then existing variant. If Mr Van Hattem refers to the first tranche of the Wpg, I say: it does not include the use of a ctb. Will we have the discussion later, if sectors would come up with it? Yeah, it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u193	"When sectors come with it," the Minister says. Can I infer from the Minister's earlier words that the introduction of a CTB will not be possible in any case as long as vaccines do not do more than they are doing now in terms of preventing contamination? So we are simply talking about effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u194	Then we really get to the different parts of the ctb, 1G, 2G, 3G and the impact on it. I would like to dwell on this in detail, but it seems to me that it is hardly an opportunity debate for the moment. We don't have it. We're not doing it. I don't have any proof that it works on the current variant. So what do we want to talk hypothetically about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u195	In the past it was also known that the prevention of infections was hardly served by a ctb. In fact, in previous remarks from the Minister, I found that he has an eye for this and that it is serious. In other words: if it doesn't help with the transmission of infections, a ctb is not a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u196	Then we come back to the way in which the TU Delft report was taken off at the time and now. I'm gonna object to that. I've done that before, and I'm gonna do it again. We must be careful in dealing with conclusions here and simply say that it does not work, that TU Delft has shown and that is what it needs to be done in shredder and no longer needs to be done. That's a quick conclusion. TU Delft has done research at that time, let me take a moment to consider the impact of the various components of the ctb, in combination or separately, on the potential reduction of the number of infections, depending on the extent of deployment in the then dominant variant. I consciously say it with so many words; that was what it was. What TU Delft showed at the time was that there was no impact of the ctb, depending on the degree of commitment. Read, very simple: if you don't use it, it doesn't have any dampening impact either. This also applies of course to a mouth cap, wash for your hands, keep away and ventilate. If you don't use it, it doesn't have an impact. So is the ctb and that doesn't surprise us. A tablet you don't swallow doesn't work either. When you do use it, the degree of protection depends on the intensity of use. That's not very special either. That goes for drugs, too. That goes for ventilation, too. The same goes for the mouth cap. That goes for everything, so that's not weird either. What TU Delft showed at the time for the variant of that time: if you put it in full width, and you can doubt whether you can, but if you use it in every store and anywhere, it could have a up to 15% damping effect. That was dismissed as: you see, it doesn't work. Then I would like to remind the Chamber that a 15% dampening effect can mean achieving an even versus doubling the number of infections in two and a half weeks. Again, that is done with very wide bets and so on. Would that work now? Probably not. The current variant is already very different. But just to say, you see, TU Delft has shown that it doesn't work, that it's bullshit, up in the garbage can, never talking about it again, that's way too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u197	I didn't use the word "dumpster," but thank you for the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u198	No, those are my terms, excuse me. But what is used is "TU Delft has shown that it doesn't work" in my words, but that's what it came down to. That's really too short a turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u199	Finally, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u200	Obviously. I did not refer to TU Delft so much as to the words of the minister himself. He indicated in a very correct way what the vaccinations do and do not do. He put that very much into perspective when it comes to preventing contamination. That led to my question about the ctb. If the effectiveness is so low, in my view there can be no question of introducing such a radical instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u201	I am certainly not defending a ctb and I am not in favour of its introduction. I am just saying to the question whether the Minister can categorically rule out another discussion about a Ctb, that I cannot. But to come back to the vaccinations, vaccinations protected to some extent so far, but with this BA.5 I don't know yet. There was some dampening effect on the number of infections. But it is very important that they had a very serious impact on the risk of serious illness and hospitalization. If we want to keep society open and at the same time prevent the RIVM coming up with a report next year that there are another 300,000 lost years due to illness or something else or that so many waiting lists have been added, then the most important call, for that category that has the highest risk, and those are the 60-plussers: let you vaccinate, get that reprimand. In the context of polarisation, we may at some point have a more difficult discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u202	I'm getting a little confused about the Minister's story. It seems as if the Minister says that the ctb is not in that law at all, but it is in fact in it. It is not as well as under the temporary law, where it was still quite strictly regulated. That's where the starting point was for you to get tested. And then it was said: if it turns out that vaccination has a similar effect on preventing the spread of the virus, then it can also be done with a vaccination certificate. That's all taken out. This is no longer part of this draft submitted for consultation, but there is a regulation in this draft which makes it possible to give access on the basis of a test result or not. And that test result is then... No, it doesn't say "a test result"; it says "result." If you look at what a result is: that can be a test result and that can be a vaccination certificate. So I'm getting a little confused. If the Minister really says that he can't do that much and that he doesn't intend to do it at all, then why does he put in the toolbox a foundation that has already been said in the Lower House that we don't want it at all? Or was that just accidentally snuck in? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u203	"Sneaking in accidentally" is not the intention. Recording a ctb is not the intention for that first tranche either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u204	I would ask for the Minister's real attention to Article 58e in the draft because it says: 'A ministerial arrangement to be adopted pursuant to this paragraph may in any case make a distinction', and then it comes, under the heading 'between persons, on the basis of age or on the basis of a result'. If you look at the meaning, then a "result" is a test result or a vaccination. So if the minister says it's not supposed to happen, I'm afraid it slipped in by accident. I hope so. I hope we're not being fooled. I would also be very surprised from the point of view of the rule of law. The arrangement as it was in the temporary law was really well thought out. It was also said that it should be comparable. That provision has fallen out. Maybe this stuck in it. But if it's stuck in it, you're gonna have to get the lice comb through and remove that limp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u205	Mr President, allow me to return to this in the second term. I don't have the lyrics right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u206	Minister, let me take a look at the progress. It's almost 5:15 now. At 5:30, at least I'm gonna suspend for dinner break. There are also a number of committee meetings, so I will announce it now: 5.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. We're still in the first block after an hour and a half. Are the other seven cubes equally bulky?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u207	Mr President, I will go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u208	Fine, then we can extrapolate that, too. Then we all know about...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u209	Just so we're clear, I'm in the second block. I had "general" and this is "vaccination." It is indeed the first of the list I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u210	You're in the second of the eight cubes now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u211	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u212	The cubes come from the minister, Mr. Otten. All right, I'd be happy to give you the floor again, but Mr Karakus has a question. I'm going to suspend at 5:30. I'm sure I'll announce that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u213	I don't know if it belongs in this block, but I also asked for a priority position for teaching staff in vaccination. Are you going to come back to that or is that part of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u214	That's the next question I had before this, so I'm gonna turn the order around. There has been no priority for teaching staff in vaccination. In the meantime, we know that a higher age and therefore not the underlying suffering is the most important indicator of decline in protection. There is therefore no reason at present to give priority to teaching staff in this respect. If at any time we are talking about a more extensive campaign, I do not intend to do so, because at the same time we should give priority to many other parties on good grounds. Think about the police. Think of a lot of other groups. In the end, even if I listen carefully to the RIVM and the GGD, that would mean that the vaccination campaign is only slower rather than faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u215	We want to keep education open. Again, in the concept it was one of the learning points of the past two years. In my opinion, this was also agreed with the education sector. The question is, why was it deliberately taken out? Apparently it was deliberately taken out, because it was in the concept. Everyone was happy. That was also the demand from the sector. If we want to keep education open, I think a priority position is just necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u216	We can discuss this together, but this means, I can tell you quietly, that on very good grounds the police, the fire department and many other parties say: we are also in close contact, we are also indispensable and our work must also go through. The final effect is this. This was also discussed with the RIVM and the GGD. When we give priority to many large groups, we come gradually back into a kind of preference policy. The overall final effect on the vaccination campaign is that we slow down instead of accelerating. I therefore do not intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u217	In the context of an open society, I have absolutely no problem with the priority given to certain sectors. Let me put that in front of you. We are talking about education. How do you think you can keep society, especially education, open if we do not give priority to vaccination?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u218	By vaccinating as soon as possible, regardless of other measures as discussed in part. But especially by vaccinating as quickly as possible, and fast vaccination requires not too much distinction in specific groups. I have discussed this as such with the Minister of OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u219	I had also asked a question on this very point. I understand that all the sectors mentioned by the Minister will not be given priority on the basis of function, but possibly on the basis of age, if they belong to that category. So as a teacher of 60-plus, you may be vaccinated sooner, or as a police officer. That'll be one. The second thing I specifically asked the Minister is what this means for the individual right of teachers who are in trouble because they say that they consider it too risky for themselves. In the previous period was the mantra "make it discussable at work." But there can then be so much peer pressure and so much social pressure, including for people with temporary contracts, that people dare not say no. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment? I think that is a crucial point. If there's no priority, there's got to be something that makes people feel safe at work when they say they can't do anything anymore. There are then two choices: they run away from their jobs, but then we lose them completely in an overly tight labour market or we are going to make them feel safe, and not just through the mantra "make it discussable at work."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u220	If it's all right with you, I'll be back on the ventilation in schools and other things. So I'll come back to this separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u221	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u222	Mr Otten asked: how do you convince hard-to-reach groups of the usefulness of vaccination? People with a non-Western migration background of the first generation were mentioned as examples. In neighbourhoods with a high migration background, information on vaccination is provided by the GGD, in collaboration with local partners and key figures. Information and communication material on vaccination is available in different languages. Vaccinations are also offered in an easily accessible way, such as by mobile teams at or in nearby and prayer homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u223	I deliberately formulated it as I put it, because I was reminded by these non-Western immigrant groups that it is the older, first generation in particular where the problems would arise. Will that be enough? Again, I have no further judgment. This has been told to me purely by people with a medical background who were involved in this. They said: there were all kinds of communication problems that did not affect the generations after that. So is that approach targeted enough? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u224	I recognize this. I also recognize this from my former working environment in a city like Rotterdam. That's where the GGDs have been very focused for a long time, with a lot of commitment from people and resources. That actually helps. This is also done in consultation with, for example, representatives of prayer houses and so on, in order to explain it in another language or in another way if necessary. This reaches people and leads to an increase in the vaccination rate. Another example is that with parties such as GPs in specific neighbourhoods, they are always on the market and contacting people, explaining and giving them the opportunity to receive vaccination on the spot, while the market visit is still ongoing. Mr. Chairman. Finally, under this heading, a question by Mr Meijer concerning the pace of scaling up vaccination. Why does that have to take six weeks? Many optimizations have been carried out in the vaccination process. The most important is, of course, having sufficient and retrained staff. In my introduction, I have just mentioned the impact of this, and what that means in terms of the number of people you can vaccinate in three weeks and the number of people you can vaccinate in six weeks towards the maximum scale. I mentioned 4 million in six weeks and 1.2 million in three weeks. After six weeks, it's stable at 1.5 million. So much for vaccination, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u225	Then we'll go to the second block. That's a concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u226	Yes. Let me first mention that the care has done a lot of work over the past two years to combat corona and to allow regular care to continue as much as possible. Let me give you an example of the hospitals. Some 100,000 patients have been admitted in the last period. It's estimated they cost a million nursing days. 100,000 withdrawals, a million nursing days. That comes from the calculation of the number of clinical admissions and the number of ic intakes. We don't have an exact number, but you have to think of that order of magnitude. There's a lot of work to be done. That indeed puts pressure on the care that was already there for covid. In addition, the reality in the healthcare sector, as in many other sectors, is that we are preparing for a revival in a situation of staff shortages. Collaboration, flexibility and the direction of the care chain are key concepts in this preparation. I've asked the expert team of covid care to advise me. I'm now operationalizing those advices. As I have just said, I have asked the National Network of Acute Care and thus the ROAZ of all regions to implement those best practices in their own region if they did not come from their own region. We also develop a dashboard in which data on available capacity can be exchanged, not only for hospitals, but also for elv and long-term care. I want to create a legal basis to allow parties like a ROAZ and a ROAZ chairman to direct the care chain in times of crisis. I would like to refer to the opinions of the OVV and the remarks made by the chairman of the OVV that three months after the government's appreciation of the OVV report, I have not yet settled this. Then we come to the specific question raised by Mrs Prins. Is it possible to consider making agreements at regional level, the so-called ROAZ, who is in charge? Is there any clarity about the national direction of ROAZ to prevent a decision by one ROAZ from having an unexpected impact on another? I find, as I said, preparations to legally ensure central control and direction in the care chain. Then there are many forms of direction imaginable. I'm working it out right now. This must, of course, be done carefully in close and good consultation with all these partners. With a view to the short term, I would like to start, pragmatically, by encouraging the direction and direction within the existing frameworks. Then Mrs. Prins also asked about treating patients with oxygen at home. How does the Minister ensure that hospitals are equally ready, so that they are not passed on to the general practitioners again? This is one of the modules also mentioned by the expert team. I have already mentioned an example of a hospital in the Nieuwegein-Utrecht region which has done so very successfully. I looked there myself and was really impressed by the way they did. I have asked the National Network of Acute Care to implement, support and monitor the modules of the expert team's advice in their own region with priority. One of these modules is "covid and oxygen at home" with in most cases monitoring from the hospital, but of course a region is free to make a different choice and to fill in it in a different way. There is customization possible. But the most important thing is that it is implemented in every region. The transfer to the general practitioner is not an option, so the remark that customisation is possible means that there must be mutual consultation and coordination within a ROAZ, which the general practitioners, as you know, also participate in. Then Mr Van Hattem asked what the consequences are of the regionalisation of covid care. Is there support and financial compensation? Regionalisation is not a goal, but it is about good coordination in the care chain. This generally works very well at regional level. Sometimes you need national cooperation for that. You all know the examples of covid care. The expert team presents successful initiatives that have already been implemented somewhere in the country, but not in many places in the country, such as home covid care and telemonitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u227	I can certainly hear the Minister say that passing on to the general practitioner is not the issue. There are agreements made, so the general practitioners are involved. In practice, it will create additional workload for general practitioners, won't it? If people come home with oxygen and need support, then the general practitioner will be called on more often as the first person in primary care and also on the district nurses, all of whom have to do in that situation what normally happens in hospitals. This is not yet the official policy, but I have already heard examples of people placed at home with oxygen. The doctor is asked if he can come and take a look at these people several times a day. That's not workable, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u228	That depends on the extent and how it is implemented. Let me take the example of the hospital I just mentioned again. They have set up an ICT system that allows nurses and, if necessary, the medical specialist, such as a pulmonary doctor or a doctor with infectious diseases, to monitor the patient remotely. So it's actually an extended arm of hospital care. The model is aimed at hospital care at home. If, in a local situation, the parties in ROAZ say that they introduce this to the extent that this can be done by the general practitioner, then this can be done. The question is only to what extent and in what way do you create that capacity. That hospital in Utrecht and Nieuwegein actually has a wing where there are no patients, but where there are desks where nurses via monitors, desktops and calling a patient get the data from the oxygen saturation in the blood, the blood sugar levels, the degree of tightness and so on. They are in contact with the patient and the patient may also contact them. This relieves the general practitioner in an extended arm construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u229	It may be very easy to think that people have been helped with only technological aids, but often it is simply necessary to have a hand on the bed or a doctor who needs to visit people. In the end, this burden will end up with the general practitioner as the nearest primary care. Then I ask the Minister whether it is not very easy to say now: "We are now going to put this in the ROAZ structure in the country. They'll just have to figure out how to make the arrangements." Then the hospitals finally knock on the GPs, like: boys, how are we gonna settle this between us? The general practitioners are still being called upon. How does the Minister see the position of the general practitioners? Can such a doctor also say: sorry, but I don't need to work on this system, because this is just going to take me way too much time and effort? Or is there going to be serious compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u230	I was just trying to figure out where this question is going. I understand the demand for serious financial compensation for the general practitioner. If the general practitioner provides care, then there is also a financial compensation. But if the general practitioner does not provide this care, then that compensation is not necessary either. The very legitimate overall question to me is whether I can, with all the partners, ensure that care capacity is expanded against the background of vacancies and so on. That requires clever solutions. This is an excellent example of which such an expert team has said that this is a smart solution that you can organise with limited commitment of people and resources in relation to the care you provide and which can potentially involve large numbers of patients. I don't know the exact number for today. Maybe I can tell you later, but I know that in recent times the number of patients at home with oxygen and guidance was about double the number of covid patients in the hospital. So it has a real impact. It makes a big difference compared to previous waves. Of course you have to do so in such a way that you can relieve the general practitioner where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u231	Well, then I'd like to go to suspension. Mr. Van Hattem has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u232	Very briefly. The suggestion was raised that it was only about compensation, but I am also particularly concerned about the workload towards general practitioners. Now the Minister says again that you should do it in such a way that the GP is not overloaded. If the Minister is rigging a system and he is also a system responsible, then I can expect the Minister to do so in such a way that the general practitioners are not actually overburdened and that the workload for the general practitioners is proportional.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u233	I have nothing to add to the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u234	Thank you. That suits me very well, because then I can suspend just in time for the dinner break until exactly 19.00 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u235	The next item is the continuation of the debate on Covid-19 topics and the long-term approach. I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. But there is already an interruption by Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u236	Mr President, it is not an interruption but an order proposal. I think we've got five or six cubes left. My suggestion would be to do all the interruptions after a block, in order to finish at a Christian time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u237	I'll take a look around. Is there sufficient support for that? Yes, the majority support it. Mr. Otten too? Then we're gonna put the interruptions at the end of the blocks, on the proposal of the Chamber. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got five and a half blocks left. I'll take care of it. There was a question from Mrs. Prince. She said that only 52% of hospitals are running at full capacity and asked what discussions the cabinet is having with actors in the care to break the vicious circle and whether central control is needed. It is true that 52% of hospitals can fully deliver the planned care, according to the NZa monitor Accessibility of care of 30 June last. The reason for this is, in particular, the lack of staff. There are a number of actions to ensure that the deferred care is delivered as soon as possible. I made agreements on this with the NVZ, the NFU and Zorgverzekerings Nederland. In June, July and August each hospital makes an inventory of the number of patients on a waiting list. This is particularly about surgical care. They're going to approach all those patients through the hospital, because only the hospital has the right overview. They will inform people about the waiting list and the expected duration and offer to pass on data if necessary and advise patients to contact the insurer if required. The insurer can then mediate. I have already mentioned one of the reflexes that I have seen, and that is that the insurers are campaigning nationwide: if you are on a waiting list, please contact us, because we want and can mediate. Mr Otten asked how the Minister would organise that regular care could continue to function in a new wave. The COVID care expert team has advised on what is needed to provide more care if covid is to be revived with the same care personnel if they so wish. This is partly due to the use of care at home and through optimal coordination. Part of the problem we have seen in the past is that the whole chain was blocked as soon as it filled in one place. If you're going to steer and coordinate in time, you can prevent that. For example, there are a number of other possibilities. By using these initiatives, the care chain is optimised, care staff is relieved and regular care can proceed as far as possible. Mr Karakus asked about migrants in care; why is this not discussed? Can they increase care capacity? Although it is not a structural solution, the use of migrants can relieve the burden on healthcare organisations, provided relevant regulations are complied with, such as the Foreign Labour Act and the Law on Occupations in Individual Health Care. For this reason, activities are currently being undertaken with interested parties to streamline and accelerate the BIG authorisation procedure for healthcare professionals qualified abroad while maintaining quality. For example, extra guidance, information provision and integration in Dutch healthcare are used. You will understand that this is not an easy task. It will therefore not lead to very large numbers of potential employees in the very short term. Mr Van Hattem and Mrs Nanninga asked about the ic capacity. It should be twice that size. I'm just going to look up the list of Ice Beds that are now occupied. I didn't get the numbers from this morning, but I got them from yesterday morning. Yesterday morning there were 662 patients in the Netherlands on an ic, 39 of them covid patients. Today there were 45. There were 1,012 beds available before that. There were 662 beds occupied and another 350 beds scheduled, scheduled and operational, but not occupied. The normal capacity of those operational but not occupied beds on which the intensivists I look at Mr Van der Voort nationally steer, is a capacity of 190. So there were significantly more operational beds available in surplus yesterday than you normally send to. That's a picture we've been seeing for a long time. Making more beds available at this stage is therefore not useful. In fact, that's even counterproductive. You put in staff and schedule it, even for evening, night and weekend shifts, when there's nothing to do. This has been the situation for a long time. What is available is a bed, a ventilator, infusion pumps, a room, etc., to scale up the capacity if necessary. That's how we decorated it in 2020. It is a total potentially available capacity of 1,700 ic-beds. The emphasis on this is that if you schedule it, it will make a huge change on staff that you will otherwise use in some places as well. Ideally, you want to stay away from a situation where you need those 1,700 Ice Beds. That's a long answer, but it helps to understand. So there are occupied beds, operational beds and scalable beds. I hope that, before the forthcoming discussions in this Chamber, I too will be free of the question of ensuring that more ICI beds are available as soon as possible. We have them, and you shouldn't want to use them. Mr. Chairman. We then come to Mr Otten's question about the fact that, according to the RIVM study, more than 320,000 healthy years of life have been lost. Isn't it more convenient to find a solution in regional corona centres so that regular care can continue? The expert team COVID care, as already mentioned, also investigated this as one of the potential options. A lot has been said about it, both in the Netherlands and abroad: can you concentrate all patients with corona on a specific location in a region or nationwide? You have seen the images and the pictures about them, both abroad and here. Should we put a new hospital somewhere in the polder? The expert team has looked at the results of the centres abroad. The result is actually extremely disappointing. Then it turns out, and that's not so strange, that first of all the availability of care professionals is a bottleneck. In addition, patients with covid who are admitted today, apart from the first wave, are often people who have to deal with additional diseases. That means that you need care for corona patients not only a pulmonary doctor, an intensive and a nurse, but also the cardiologist, the gastric, intestinal and liver doctor, the neurologist, etc. So you end up with a full-fledged hospital and actually just move staff from one place to another. That's what you put in new teams and new rosters at a different location. You're gonna lose efficiency instead of winning efficiency. So the expert team's advice was to stop looking for separate corona hospitals. I take that advice to heart. Mr Van der Voort asked how the nursing and nursing homes were prepared. We see that the infections in nursing homes are increasing again. We also hear that employees have more covid contamination and that absenteeism is high. In this respect, we see the pattern in society also in the care sector. Nurses take their own actions. They've done a hell of a lot in the last two years, so their protocols and materials are up-to-date. They can test quickly and frequently, making outbreaks appear faster. They also use personal protective equipment for preventive purposes. I've already mentioned that. That is an own action to ensure that the staff dropout does not go any further. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten asked: does the Minister have a scenario for re-introducing mouth caps in the nursing homes during a new wave? There is no shortage of mouth caps at the moment. So they can simply be ordered by healthcare providers. The cabinet compensates nursing homes for this through the additional cost scheme. In the case of nursing homes, the principles governing the use of personal protective equipment outside the hospital, drawn up by the RIVM at the request of the sector, apply. As already indicated, nursing homes are now returning to preventive use of personal protective equipment, both with their employees and with visitors. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten asked: why didn't the Minister speak to demonstrating general practitioners last Friday? That answer is very simple. I promised I'd speak there. If I make such a commitment, I'll come too. I just had my lyrics done, too. However, I had indicated that I had a Council of Ministers and that I had a number of points which I had to discuss there. Those are items from my own agenda. During the ministerial council I received an app from my own spokesperson early: they are breaking up here now, the demonstration is ready, can you come now? My answer was: no, I can't come now, but let them stay a little longer, or, if they don't want to, let them come with a delegation, then I'll talk to them afterwards. Moreover, I would like to make the point that I, as well as my staff, speak to the general practitioners on a very frequent basis at the moment. Last week I talked to them, yesterday I talked to them and tomorrow I'll talk to them again. I finally spoke to a delegation of the general practitioners at the Binnenhof. I also said yesterday: if I say I'm coming, I'm coming, but you have to give me a chance. That can be done by starting earlier, by going longer, or by agreeing with me that I will leave the Council of Ministers. But if we make the deal that I'll come after the Council of Ministers, I'll come after the Council of Ministers. Then Mr Van Hattem asked about the number of oxygen treatments at home. I've already indicated that large numbers are. At the moment, 1,254 patients, whether or not with oxygen, are monitored at home. Mr Karakus noted that the shortage of care staff was a major concern. He wondered whether there should be improvement in working conditions. The problem is mainly the large dropout of young care workers. In 2021, almost 30,000 healthcare workers were released from care under 25 years of age. That is about 20% of workers in this age group. This includes young people who are temporarily employed in health care, because of internship or in a holiday job. If we look at new nurses and nurses who have completed full-time training, 90% to 95% are still employed in the care after two years. However, we do see that care workers switch within a sector and that 39% of customer-related employees leave an employer within two years. Overall, the movement in recent years is that the number of employees in care is steadily increasing. I refer to the report, which you know, of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. It indicates that one in six Dutch people currently work with a job in the care sector. And if we continue the rate of growth in recent years, in 2030 it will be one in five, in 2040 one in four and in 2060 one in three. That is why the WRR indicates that we actually have a combined problem: it is about the social sustainability of care and it is about financial sustainability, but I would like to say this in my own words: the main problem is human sustainability. Mr. Chairman. So much for my comments on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u239	I call Mrs Prins.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u240	I do have a question about the hospitals. 48% of hospitals do not yet provide all the care that should be provided. That's a lot. Worse still, I think there are still over 100,000 people waiting for surgery. Actually, I think it's a little thin... Let me put it another way: what do you do more than just inventory whether by chance there are 100,000 or 80,000? Even if it's 80,000, those 80,000 people are still waiting. So what do you do more than that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u241	It always helps to put it in perspective for a while. If I follow the numbers of the Dutch Healthcare Authority, about 2.000.000 surgical interventions are carried out annually in the Netherlands. The Dutch Healthcare Authority comes to the conclusion from a historical comparison that, compared to the period for covid, there are now 100,000 to 120,000 more people waiting than in the past. That would be, very flattering, assuming 2 million surgeries and 10,000 waiting, a two-week working stock. The tricky thing is that it's not entirely translatable that way. Some people may wait half a day or a day longer, but for other people they wait months or maybe a year longer. The exact overview is only at the hospital itself. Some people think the insurer has the overview, but the insurer doesn't. So it's up to the hospitals to take action on that. I also have the commitment, ambition and support of the hospitals that they are doing now. They look first of all at the capacity of either themselves or in their own region at a neighbouring hospital or at an independent treatment clinic. It sounds crazy, but it may be that hospitals have waiting lists, but there's room at a neighboring hospital. The capacity has to do with, for example, staff breakdown. If, in one place, I mention a simple example, apart from the exact situation of an operation worker or an ophthalmologist, there is a shortage of capacity for cataracts, but one has more than enough capacity to do other interventions, then you can use it, and vice versa. So share the capacity. Come up with a list. How many patients are we talking about exactly? That 100,000 to 120,000 is an estimate, but we don't know the exact number. Give them also the opportunity to be intercessed. Look at the regional capacity. And add to that the independent treatment clinics, who have previously indicated that they can do 10% extra compared to what they are doing now, with the same staff. That's not relevant to every patient, but it's relevant to a lot of people. And then the health insurance companies actively go after the mediation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u242	Thank you for this comprehensive answer. I do have one more question about it. What is it that you have to work so hard for it from the NZa and such a thing that this inventory is now being done? Can the funding of a hospital play a role in this and the fact that some hospitals are very careful?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u243	Of course you can. The financing of hospitals is, as you know, very complex. This also has to do with the achievement of specific production agreements. You can say: I have staff breakdown now, but maybe I should just keep that list, because I'll catch up later. There's a much bigger waiting list everywhere than we had. At the end of the day, the importance of a citizen and a patient really counts. That is why I am really not concerned when a patient is referred, for example, from a hospital to an independent treatment clinic or to a neighbouring hospital. The patient in the hospital where he eventually disappears still has an enormous amount of care question. The question of care overall remains and it is bigger than in the past. But can it be? Yeah, it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u244	Finally, Mrs. Prince.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u245	Finally. For me, therefore, the question as to how much more central direction and central control is needed. As you yourself say, and I fully share that, the patient's interest is paramount and not the importance of the hospitals. I mean, you know, you guys got a really tight ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u246	Yes. I understand the question very well and I share it, but right now I don't have any more control options than that. I don't have the overview. I also can't send on the individual waiting list for a medical specialist or for a hospital. What I am doing at the moment is that I am in consultation with many different parties of concern to see if we can reach an integrated healthcare agreement, including closer agreements for regional cooperation. Only right now, apart from the parties, I can convince them of the importance and ask them to commit to this, nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u247	I have two questions. One question is about the shortage of care staff; that was the theme. If I listen to the Minister like that, is my impression that we don't have to worry about it because it's solved or about to be solved? I indicated that not the influx is the problem, but the outflow, especially the early outflow. The Minister says that this is not the case, because after two years, 95% of young people remain in care. Then I can be faint and ask: what happens after the third and fourth years? But that's not the point. It is a question of whether or not the problem of care personnel has been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u248	Net care holds more staff than it flows out. As a result, the total number of employees in the care sector is still increasing steadily. As I pointed out, in recent years, this has led to one in six people with jobs working in health care. If we continue this rate of increase, then... But if the follow-up conclusion is that we do not have a problem with the care of staff, then I refer to that WRR report. This indicates that the deficit is large, even though we are still so committed to it. As we grow, so does the deficit. The answer to the question whether the Minister can indicate that the conclusion is that the problem with regard to the number of employees in the care is: no. I could take it a little further. I am not going to solve that during my term as Minister, unfortunately, with all the efforts I have to make on that. The problem is only getting bigger. This means that we really need to make different choices, and hence also the discussion about the Integrated Healthcare Agreement. How do we ensure that we organise care differently while we continue to run against the limits of the number of staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u249	At this point, I have one final question. Then I go to my second question. Surely it is right that we should get a clear picture of why people are leaving care? A rising line can also rise even more if we know how to hold those people. Then it is only right that I ask: Minister, why is this failure taking place? It doesn't matter whether it's a low percentage or a high percentage. How can we hold these people? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u250	Then I will only draw a moment from my previous work, both as head of department and as director. In the case of drivers in care, staffing, staff retention and staff deployment are day in and day out at the top of the agenda. Every day. 52 weeks a year. All the time. The same applies to department heads. The same goes for others. This means that there are all sorts of ways to use it, including exit talks. I shall make one point. In the time I studied medicine, once, it was looked at as a vocational training. You're gonna be a doctor, and that's what you do until you retire. Well, I took a slightly different path. But in the meantime, we know that in the training they get... This also applies to nurses and to many other care workers. Those are very passionate and very professional people who learn a lot about teamwork. They learn a lot about communication. They learn a lot about psychology. They learn a lot about stress management and crisis policy and so on. It will therefore not surprise us that healthcare workers, such as nurses, are asked everywhere. You can also see them anywhere now. That's in thehr, in the... Well, fill it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u251	Even in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u252	Even in politics, look.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u253	I think we should park this point. I think we will come back to that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u254	No doubt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u255	The signals I'm getting are something other than how the Minister imagines them at the moment. I have not yet received an answer to my second question. That was about caregivers in the front line who have become ill and aboutzzp'ers who are sick. Those caregivers have been hurt, because some of them have been fired because they've been sick for more than two years. Thezzp'ers still suffer from this. My question is: is the Minister prepared to provide them with financial compensation, a settlement or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u256	The entire folder postcovid and vulnerable is ahead. If it's all right with you, Mr. President, I'll get back to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u257	The solution proposed by Mr Karakus of the PvdA earlier, in order to gain more care through migration, will not be supported as a PVV. But the capacity in care remains a concern for us as well. The minister was just talking about the ic capacity. He says, "I'm gonna give you some figures and look, we've got the place in order; so we don't have to have that discussion anymore, because we're just going to be able to take it easy at the moment." Now we have been here for two years, and we have been put forward every time: we must prevent the ic's from being full and can no longer cope, because there will be exponential growth. The Minister also referred to the prevention of this exponential growth in the framework of the Ctb. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is this exponential growth no longer a problem for that ic capacity at once? We now have a number of places empty and we should not want people to turn thumbs, but you can make sure you have a certain emergency capacity or at least have the ability to scale up further...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u258	Your question is clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u259	...so we don't have to flatten half the country because of the ic-capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u260	I think the minister will figure it out. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u261	First of all, I do not call'some figures'. I just mention, as I can do every day, the current update of how many patients there are now, how much operational capacity there is and what the scalable capacity is. You can ask me again tomorrow and again the day after tomorrow, and I will give you the figures. In the summer of 2020, after the first wave, with a group of experts and stakeholders from intensive care doctors, the intensive care nurses, the Dutch Association of Hospitals, the Federation of University Medical Centres, the healthcare insurers and so on, we looked very widely at what is possible in terms of structural and scalable intensivecare capacity. A report has been produced on a good basis. In the past, as then chairman of the National Network of Acute Care, I offered this to the then Minister Van Rijn. In the winter after that, in the 12 months after that, we used that plan to scale up and down variablely. In the summer of 2021, we recalibrated that plan with the total capacity at the time: is it still correct? Does it still fit? What I'm saying is, this is the capacity available. This is the level at which you can wisely scale up while maintaining good intensive care care. You shouldn't want to scale up that high, because with that you're making an overchange on the rest of the care. Scale to even higher... You can always do something with a patient, for example leave him in an ambulance longer, but at some point it is not what we call sensible and qualitative intensive care care anymore. This is the capacity. Is that sufficient at all times, even in the case of exponential growth? The word "exponential" already says it, as we have seen in previous cases. There may be moments when you have such numbers that you can no longer catch them.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u262	Mr. Van Hattem still?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u263	Sorry, Chairman. I thought the minister was still halfway through a sentence, but the point is and remains this. It is always mentioned as an argument: we must prevent the ic's from getting full, we must appeal to Germany, whatever has happened. At some point we were told here in the Chamber that they couldn't handle it even in Germany, so we couldn't use it anymore. That proved to be something else in practice, but well, the fact is and will remain, and in fact the Minister recognizes that there is simply a risk that the ic capacity will be used to the full or that we could even go over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u264	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u265	My question is: why is there no commitment to increasing that capacity? After all, the risk is recognised. At a hearing in the Lower House, Mr Van Ranst did not, politically speaking, have my biggest friend, but he did say an interesting point here: in Belgium, that ic capacity is twice as high as in the Netherlands. He was surprised that it is only half here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u266	I think your question is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u267	So why stick to that efficiency criterion instead of ensuring that that capacity can be further increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u268	I would ask Members to keep the interruptions brief for the rest of the evening, as the Rules of Procedure also require. One, two questions at most. I would ask the Minister to keep his answers concise as well. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u269	Sure. Mr Van Hattem addresses a number of points in one question. Maybe I should address them for a while. All that can be concise. First of all, the number of patients in Germany. All waves combined have been around 50 Dutch covid patients in Germany over the past two and a half years. About 50. We are very grateful to the German colleagues for that, but given the 100,000 patients who have been in hospitals in the Netherlands, you need to look at what we are talking about. That doesn't change the thanks for that, but I'm gonna put it in that light. The next question, at least, was that Germany was not forced to lock down and other measures at any time. The answer to that is your room. That's not right. Germany, too, has had to take decisive action at a number of times. The third was about efficiency. This isn't about efficiency. This is about the available capacity where you can still make sense, with qualified staff who know how to operate a machine, set up the capacity. 1.700 is already about a doubling of normal capacity. The last point was the comparison with Belgium. It's wonderful that a virologist says something about that, but let's think about whether they're apples and pears. Where Belgium describes a lot of capacity as "intensive care," we call it "medium care." I'd like to add those medium-care beds for you. Then let's see what the equation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u270	Did that answer your questions, Mr. Van Hattem? I guess so, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u271	This will save you for the second term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u272	Well, that's up to me, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u273	Then there can be a shorter second term. The point is as follows. We now hear that would indeed be medium care. That's a discussion in itself. My question is, in fact, the following. If we want to take serious steps now for a long-term perspective on the corona measures and the Minister says "there is not enough qualified staff," should we not start towards this long-term approach by ensuring that more people are trained as ic nurse or ic doctor so that they can at least be deployed on the ic? They can therefore work in other functions, but at least they have the paper in their pocket to do it. And shouldn't we b stop closing ICU departments in existing hospitals or closing down hospitals where ICU departments are present? This is because it maintains a lot of capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u274	In a short time, we really go through all the points that belong to ic and ic capacity. I'll just name them all. In recent years, the number of ic-beds has not decreased. Hospitals can choose to merge locations, but the total number of ic-beds has not changed in the Netherlands in recent years. Then about more influx of intensive care nurses. The capacity and available funding is there. The same applies to O.K. staff and to E.R. nurses. It applies to about all so-called FZO professions. Young people aren't here, so there are places left empty. The capacity is there, the training is there and the funding is there, but one cannot attract all people. It's in the hospitals, because they just don't have enough people. That is in line with the discussion I have just had. Unfortunately, that is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u275	Then we'll go to postcovid.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u276	Mr. Chairman. In the further development of the long-term plans, we must also pay attention to another group. Those are the people with long-term complaints after covid contamination. That really requires a cabinet-wide commitment. For example, I am looking at my colleagues from SZW and also at the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport with a view to working and re-integrating staff. But as Minister of Health, I am also at the forefront of this issue. That's why I'm talking to C-support and other parties to look at the possibilities for better coordination and coherence of expertise on long-term complaints after covid. In addition, I finance and stimulate research through ZonMw into, for example, the organisation of care paths for people with postcovid. I also include the experiences of the field and C-support in these and further investigations. Mr. Chairman. In addition, Mrs De Boer asked about vulnerable and long covid: "Is the Minister responsible for these people and what does he have to offer them? Can they protect themselves? Can they force them to work from home?" The cabinet is committed in different ways to people with vulnerable health, including those with post-covid. For example, we work together with field parties on the development of knowledge, as I have already mentioned, as well as arrangements for support, recovery and aftercare. In addition, we are actively calling for these people to be taken into account in many different ways. At the moment this is also part of the general public communication. The urgent advice to work at home to prevent infections has now expired, but the new situation gives employers and employees the opportunity to make structural agreements on the design of hybrid works in a way that contributes to the well-being of employees, to the organisational interest and to societal goals. Mr Karakus proposed to provide financial support for frontline workers with long covid, post-covid. From the cabinet we explore interdepartmentally what form of support we can offer to the caregivers who, in the first wave of their work with covid patients, have covid, a corona infection, and meanwhile have long-term post-covid complaints and are therefore dismissed. It is precisely because of the great impact on those involved that we are taking this very carefully. We do this interdepartmentally, so that the post-covid cases from other sectors such as education are also taken into account. I cannot anticipate the results of this, but after the summer, I hope that the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport and the Minister of SZW will provide more clarity about this. Mrs De Boer asked: do the ministers have an insight into the impact for post-covid people? Scientific research provides insight into the nature, extent and impact of long-term complaints following covid contamination. This continuous flow of research provides more and more insight into the disease image and possible forms of treatment. In the meantime, we see that it is diverse, people experience very different complaints and the duration of the complaints varies greatly. Based on the figures of C-support, we know that almost 15,000 people with postcovid have been registered and received support. To understand their problems and needs, the Minister for Long-Term Care and Sport spoke with care staff with postcovid. I recently spoke to people with postcovid to hear what problems they face, what support they get and what needs they have. Mrs De Boer asked: to what extent can staff shortages in the various sectors be linked to post-covid? Is there a visual on that? What's the government's plan to do about this? There is no indication of the extent to which staff shortages in sectors are due to total or partial failure due to post-covid complaints. The estimate is that 1% to 2% of people keep complaints for more than a year. Assuming that 1% to 2% and the total number of registered corona infections until April of this year, this could cover between 80,000 and 160,000 people in the Netherlands who still have complaints after a year. COOVID-19 undoubtedly contributes to the deficits in sectors, where there were deficits before we had to deal with this pandemic, for example in the care sector. Mr Van der Voort asked: how can people with vulnerable health protect themselves and how can they be protected? We understand very well the concern and caution of the group of people with vulnerable health, once again since the scaling down of the covid measures. Therefore, both the long-term strategy and the current policy focus on the health of this group. We must also recognise that the public authorities cannot eliminate all the risks this group faces. Having said this, I am well aware of the concerns that people have about their own health, but also the desire to be able to decide for themselves where you go and where you stand, even if you have vulnerable health. People with vulnerable health can protect themselves through an FFP2 mouth mask. We also support them in different ways. For example, self-tests and protective equipment are provided free of charge via the pharmacy to medically vulnerable Dutch people in home isolation and their healthcare providers. The FFP2 mouth nose masks are now added to this. There was another question from Mr Karakus. The most vulnerable have been hit hardest by corona; is it not wise to prepare these people for online communication already to prevent loneliness? Loneliness is a major problem in our society. It is right that Mr Karakus should draw attention to this. The cabinet has therefore included in the current government agreement that the Action Programme One against loneliness has been extended. This action programme includes more than 160 national organisations and 260 municipalities that are committed nationally and locally to combating loneliness. They also pay attention to different forms of contact, such as online contact, video bubbles, etc. In addition, there are several guides that pay attention to people who need a listening ear, such as a rural listening line and MIND. So much for this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u277	I had asked whether people with vulnerable health or people with long covid, but especially those with vulnerable health, could force home work. The Minister replied that this could be done in good consultation between employers and employees. But my question was, of course, about the situation: what if this consultation doesn't work... C-support can give all kinds of advice about what your options are, but the question is of course whether you can enforce that. I do not know if the Minister followed the votes in the Lower House, but I understand that an initiative law has been passed so that this can be enforced. My question to the Minister is how to give people more scope for action, rather than having to wait and see if your employer agrees as an employee in a dependent position.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u278	In this setting, I did not follow that situation, in between, but as I said about the perspective of action and consultation: the Minister of SZW is in dialogue with my colleague. This is also about employers and employees. These are conversations that they've been working on for a while, to point out that there has to be a lot of attention for employees and where it's possible, their desires to work at home, for example, to work hybridly or to vary with colleagues, also give substance to them. In some environments, this can be easier than in some other place. Sometimes that can also require replacement work or something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u279	Perhaps in addition to that, and then I look at Mr Janssen with a slanted eye: what about education, for example? Then, of course, it becomes very complicated when you have a fragile health, to adapt your work situation to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u280	Now you are really asking me about the implementation of the agreements made by the Minister of Education and the Minister of Education. I don't know. If I have to check, I can see if I can get it for the second term, but I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u281	That may seem out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u282	Well, I don't want to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u283	Then I have another question, which is about the impact of long covid or postcovid. My question was not about the impact on individuals but about the social impact. You have already said that 1% to 2% still have complaints after a year. I understand it's about 50% after three months. This means that the social impact could be much greater. But I also understand that there is no picture of that. For this we may also need to be with the Minister of SZW, I do not know, but I find it rather amazing that we have no idea of that impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u284	There are many different studies that look at the degree of impact. One of the most beautiful things I've known so far is a study that results from the Lifelines cohort in Groningen, or in the northeast of the country, and then I look at Mr Van der Voort. That's a big cohort, of about 160,000 people, I say out of my mind, who are being followed for a long time. During this period, the researchers have also repeatedly sent a questionnaire to several tens of thousands of people to ask for complaints and for possible corona contamination. That research showed that I have heard from the researchers, because I have not seen the publication. It is that we see some general complaints in people with postcovid: fatigue, concentration problems, etc. They are very common in the general population, if you follow a large group of people for a long time. Those researchers showed that the people who had been through covid during that period did not pin me on a figure of 25% in the order of 25% more often than in people who were not going through covid during the same period. It is only one of many investigations, but it indicates that long-term complaints, regardless of the exact time limit, are frequent, whatever percentage we take.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u285	But that's not the impact I'm talking about. The impact I mean is the social impact. For example, is such a questionnaire also asking about the omission of people, whether they are still able to work? I am so curious about the social impact of the long-term covid. The health impact is, of course, there too, and it is being looked at, but I am surprised that so little is known about the social impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u286	The way we're standing here, we can actually draw it out. Apart from the exact quantification: the impact is large. The number of infections is incredibly high. In this year's short period alone, we are talking about millions of people. A significant percentage of them have for some time longer complaints than the infection alone. Those complaints concern a very wide palette. In part of them, without knowing exactly how many, it will lead to failure or longer absence of disease or reduced energy. This means that the social impact is large in a broad sense, in terms of employability at home in your family, in your working environment and in the resumption of your studies and so on. One of the things that we're learning so slowly is that covid and going through an infection has a big effect. The discussion here is to what extent vaccination reduces the risk of long-term complaints after covid, yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u287	Thank you. Mr. Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u288	Mr President, two brief questions. They can be answered yes twice as far as I'm concerned. The first question is this. I'm glad you're busy supporting those people on the front line. Does that include thezzp'ers? That was my supplementary question. Can the Chamber get the results back? That's what I'm looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u289	The answer to that second question is: yes, sure. I have to come back to that first question. I really need to get an update from a fellow minister. If that does not work before the second deadline, I will ask whether we can return to that later in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u290	The measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u291	Mr. Chairman. Mr Karakus asked what limits had to be crossed in order to take the mandatory measure. What scenarios are in place for this? I'd like a reflection. First of all, I understand incredibly well the wide demand of citizens, businesses and other parties such as schools to know in good time what they are up to. In this respect, an intervention system with predefined thresholds would be ideal. I would like to return to the situation we had in 2020, apart from the first wave, in which we did not have vaccines and medication available. We were already able to test. Most people, almost all Dutch, had not yet built up any immunity. Then we stuck to very specific thresholds: an x-number of hospitalizations per day, ten or twenty ic-takes in one day and so many infections. You may recall the situation that at some point in the number of infections we went through the level of 10,000 in one day. That was extremely high. Anything had to happen to bring it back. Meanwhile, we are in a completely different situation, with quickly successive variants, which have their own characteristics each time. 98% of the population has some form of antibody, whether or not after vaccination, when I look at the numbers of Sanquin among blood donors, which is not the exact reflection of the entire Dutch population. That percentage is high. Now we do have medication and we do have vaccines and so on. Then suddenly we're in a much more difficult situation, in terms of very specific values. As you know, we relaxed in the first quarter of this year and we just accepted, without much going on, that we had 100,000-plus infections a day. That led to a lot of staff failure and that led to a lot of people with long-term complaints. Furthermore, it didn't have much impact and it really brought us to give priority to opening schools, making sports and so on possible again. Can tomorrow with another variant be different again? Yeah, you can. So it is extremely difficult to say: I send at 50,000 infections a day, or at x hospitalizations a day. With these 100,000 infections, the problem was not at all in the hospitals, but the problem was the massive loss of staff. So we will really have to monitor that per situation. An intervention system with pre-defined signal values does not match the current situation. Such a system is too narrow. However, I am talking to the RIVM about whether one can somehow, via a colour chart, a thermometer or a stepladder, show something per situation without having a very specific threshold. Then Mr Verkerk asked: what role does the Minister see for local authorities? Local authorities are an essential part of the long-term strategy. In acute phases, municipalities have certain tasks and responsibilities as competent authorities. Safety regions support municipalities and form a link between government and municipalities in some situations. Apart from the task as competent authority, the municipality also has a duty of care. They carry out these as best they can. It is, even in the long term, an important asset for citizens to rely on. The government is in many areas, in the field of COVID-19 and beyond, in consultation with local authorities. Then Mr Van der Voort asked: how is the government going to ensure that society is properly prepared for any new measures? As you know, the starting point of the long-term strategy is to steer as much as possible towards an open society. This calls for an integrated and preventive approach. Public authorities, sectors and society are preparing for this together. With interested parties, including municipalities, sectors and RIVM, we are still in discussion about this. The follow-up of the basic opinions remains of great importance. The government will continue to actively communicate about this. In the case of any new measures, we will continue or intensify these efforts. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Voort also asked: when will measures be taken and what type of contamination? That comes back to Mr Karakus' question just now. Of course, the sickness of the then dominant variant is important, and the extent to which previously accumulated immunity still protects against serious illness. In addition, the loss of people is important, both from employees and students, and the number of patients who become ill so that they need help. Mr Van der Voort also asked: when will the time come for the five-day stay-at-home advice to lapse after a positive test? Isn't that an exaggeration for the current variant? In view of the increasing number of infections, isolation advice is an essential part of preventing the spread of the coronavirus. In an opinion of 11 May last, RIVM looked at the possibility of shortening the current isolation period. The opinion indicated that there are currently no new insights as to the excretion duration and infectiousness of the omikron variant which could reasonably lead to a reduction in the isolation duration. Mr. Chairman. Mr Otten asked for travel abroad. What's the status of the DCC? An agreement has recently been reached between the Council and the European Parliament to extend the DCC Regulation until 1 June 2023. As long as this Regulation is in force, Member States are obliged to issue a DCC, but it is up to the Member States themselves to decide whether it is being used. The DCC is not required from the EU Schengen area to the Netherlands. Some other states are still asking for a DCC, in France and the Azores, for example, for entry and in some other Member States for access to hospitals and hospitals. Mr Van der Voort mentioned that aerosols are responsible for most infections. He asked: to what extent is this involved in the sector plans? Is the FFP2 mask mandatory? Contaminations take place mainly by air. Therefore, the sector plans explicitly address ventilation and mouth nose masks. Collectively binding agreements, such as requiring FFP2 mouth masks, are not part of the sector plans. There is no reason at present to impose such an obligation. People with vulnerable health can protect themselves with an FFP2 mask. Mr Van Hattem asked about the ventilation regulations in the Building Decision. They must be maintained, but now I come up with new measures. Why doesn't there come more and better ventilation first? The sector plans explicitly address ventilation as a preventive measure. The starting point remains to make good use of existing facilities, in accordance with the requirements of the Building Decision. Here's the most profit to make. Mr Nicolaï asked what progress was being made on ventilation in schools. Is there a financial problem? Can I promise to explain what steps have been taken? EUR 360 million is available to get ventilation in schools in order. 200 million of this has now been spent through the specific allowance ventilation in schools. An investigation has been started to see whether each school has CO-meters and whether they function properly. EUR 17 million is available for this purpose. In this way, we can ensure that all schools have CO-meters at their disposal by autumn. In addition, for questions from schools, you can use the Space-OK help desk and a team of experts who can visit schools for advice. So much for this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u292	A few brief questions. First of all, Mr Karakus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u293	Let's talk about the school ventilation. The point is not that there are no resources from the government. The point is that there is no budget for the contribution that municipalities or education should make. How are we gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u294	I'd like to pass that on to the Minister of OCW. I can't answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u295	I have a question about the advice of staying home for five days. I understand very well that RIVM has not made any changes to this from a medical point of view. At the same time, staying home for five days leads to fewer staff in all kinds of important sectors, not only in the care sector, but also in the railways, which I mentioned, and of course other sectors. At some point, the medical arguments on the one hand have to be weighed against the social arguments on the other. Has such an assessment been made as to whether that five-day period should continue to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u296	Yes, that consideration has been made and is always made. This is done, for example, by employers in health care. If they are so short that they cannot provide care for long-term patients, for example, and cannot scale them down, it is the case that in a long-term care institution there are clear protocols and rules for the deployment of staff who are not very ill, but who had a positive test less than five days ago. They then work with strong protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u297	So that is a trade-off that organisations can make themselves. I know those appointments, too. I understand from this that as a minister and the ministry, you are not yet finding the time to scale it down generically.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u298	No. One of the most important measures we have at the moment is to prevent anyone who is positive and can infect others from coming into contact with many others.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u299	I had a few more questions about the sector plans. Or are you gonna come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u300	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u301	Then I'm gonna back off.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u302	Then Mr Verkerk. He also had a few questions that might come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u303	I would like to mention the role of local authorities. The Minister says they have an important role to play. He also mentions a number of points. I believe all that. But I do find it special that in your last letter, dated 13 June, which is the letter on the future of corona policy, the local authorities are missing. I mentioned two things in my story: prevention, but also resilience, resilience of local society. I haven't spoken to every mayor, but I've heard the wish to have more room for local customization. Could the Minister say anything about this or, if he is unable to say anything about it now, will he undertake to discuss it with the local authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u304	I fully agree with that. The municipality may take measures in respect of districts, specific situations and regions in which issues are raised. That's a subject of conversation. There has been a recent conversation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. Yesterday there was another discussion with the Security Council on the long-term approach. That is where these kinds of topics come in specifically. There are many opportunities for local authorities to do business themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u305	Can you at least promise to inform the Chamber about this when these talks are over, so that we can also look at this role in long-term policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u306	Sure. I'd like to do that with my heartfelt heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u307	I would like to continue with the questions put by Mr Karakus and with your answer to my questions on the position of the schools. I hear the Minister saying that a huge amount of money is being made available, but I do not hear that this has led to the achievement of the objective it has been made available for. I heard the Minister say: I will pass it on to my colleague from OCW. With all due respect, Minister, it's your responsibility, of course. Prevention is the responsibility of this minister. Prevention is so important, because if the children don't get sick, the parents don't get sick. The parents can light others again. That's what we're talking about, isn't it? We want to try to get as few people in hospitals as possible. So the responsibility lies with this minister. I would very much like to know why that is not possible, because he is getting signals anyway. I also understand that there is still money to come from the municipalities. I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u308	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u309	My question is: can the Minister, on his responsibility, find out whether this preventive measure actually works and if it does not work what we need to do to resolve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u310	I want to do anything. I'm just looking for the exact role, the impact and the importance of the debate here. On some points, I am literally doing a copy-paste of the debate I had in the House of Representatives. If you want me to ask the Minister of OCW how many schools have CO2 meters, how many schools have ventilation equipment and so on, I'll find out for you. Only if you ask me here now will I indicate that there is a program. I have had several discussions on this with the Minister for Education and Science. He's working on that very strongly. The last consultation was about whether it is possible to vaccinate teaching staff with priority. Then it was about the ventilation again. So it's running. The Minister's working on it. I just don't know exactly how many schools and where the CO2 meters are. If I have to find out before your Chamber, I'll ask the Minister of OCW. I hope that this is enough that there is an enormous amount of attention to it, that there is an enormous amount of money available for it and that the programme runs with it. We recognise that schools must close as late as possible and that ventilation is of particular importance. I look in the answer a bit for a metalevel instead of giving a precise overview of which schools, how many etcetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u311	Again with all due respect, but I would actually like to approach it differently. It's not like this minister has to find out if we ask him to. I would say that it is up to this Minister to take that into account, to keep an eye on it and to correct it if it is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u312	But then we fill in the responsibility a little bit differently. We can talk about many aspects, such as the approach to covid, prevention of infection in schools and hygiene in schools. We can also talk about public transport. It really is a cabinet approach, with a number of things being highlighted. But if you ask me here if I can fill in and name something about the numbers of schools and about where something is and is not arranged, then I should not blame you for that answer. If I have to check with the Minister of OCW, I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u313	I didn't hear that question ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u314	But I would like to ask whether it is possible to answer somewhat at meta level.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u315	No, we can also ask questions to the Minister of OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u316	Just to clear up a misunderstanding: I didn't ask about the number of schools. I can also imagine the Minister still informing his colleague. That's why I sat down. At the heart of the problem is the following. It's not about the CO2 meters, but it's about the ventilation systems. They're pretty precious. I know that the new programme has increased the contribution of the Empire from 30% to 60%, but the municipalities or education still have to pay the remaining 40%. That is why I indicated in my introduction that there are municipalities that do not have these resources or that they say they do not have these resources, which is why our objective is not being met. That's where the care is. If we don't have good ventilation systems, then we just can't keep those schools open. That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u317	Mr. Chairman. I've taken note of it. I'll check with the Minister of OC&W. If there's an issue, I'll ask him to fix it. The stakes are that schools ensure good ventilation and that they also ensure CO measurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u318	A very brief interruption. I do not really want to interrupt on this, but I want to get a little bit of clarity on this. In the list of questions the House of Representatives has asked, the Minister replies that an investigation has been started at this time to understand whether each school has CO-meters and that it is expected that the results of the investigation will come to the Chamber this summer. Every school is supposed to have CO meters around the fall. My question is very simple: these were questions from the House of Representatives, but can the Minister ensure that this Chamber can also have the research results as soon as they are available?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u319	The answer is: heartfelt. Mr Van Hattem is literally saying the text I had just proposed. Both with regard to research, and with regard to money, and with regard to autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u320	Thank you. Then we get to the first tranche and the Wpg.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u321	When I arrived, the importance of adjusting the Wpg became immediately clear. Originally, the idea was to thoroughly revise the Wpg. At that time, there was no concrete legislative proposal. I picked that up fast. The first tranche of adaptation Wpg provides a structural basis for collective action for all diseases with pandemic potential. Meanwhile, the Twm fell on 20 May last. This means that there are now no specific legal bases available to take collective binding measures to combat the Covid-19 epidemic. This makes it all the more important for the first tranche to be implemented quickly and the process has accelerated. If the epidemiological situation requires it, I will, of course, see if further acceleration is possible. In doing so, I will remain vigilant for the necessary care. The consultation reactions are currently being processed. The amended bill is expected to be submitted to the Council of State for its opinion on 15 July. I expect the proposal to be submitted to the House of Representatives before 1 September in accordance with my previous commitment. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van der Voort, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Nicolaï asked if I could reflect on Parliament's control in the first tranche of the Wpg. Mr Nicolaï asked further questions about the articles. I would like to explain how I see this in general. I note, however, that the legislative proposal is still in preparation and that I cannot go into all the questions put in detail. I want to take care of control on two levels. The first is to control the designation and scaling-down of a disease such as A1 and thus the acquisition and extension of powers to take action. The second is control over the actual adoption of measures. I come first to control the inciting of a power. The current Group A is split into A1 and A2. The difference is that A1 diseases are also subject to the powers of collective action. Only diseases with pandemic potential can be placed in the group A1. Hence the relationship with powers for collective action. An infectious disease is caused by a ministerial arrangement in A1, followed by an incorporation of the bill. Through the bill, both chambers have control over the designation. In the consultation version of the bill, COVID-19 has already been placed in Group A1. This means that there will no longer be a separate ministerial arrangement for this, as Mr Nicolaï rightly points out. Graduation from A1 to A2 should take place if the importance of public health no longer progresses the designation if A1. The consultation version has not yet included a scaling-down obligation. This will be included in the Council of State version. The scaling-off is done in the same way as the designation of A-diseases, via the scheme, so that the scaling-off has a rapid effect, followed by a legislative proposal in which both Chambers have control. Then as regards control when taking action. Measures can only be taken if necessary and proportionate. The consultation version includes a veil, unless there is an urgent need. A veil means that any change may take place following the debate with the Chambers before the rules are adopted and enter into force. Both rooms receive the pre- hanged or re-mounted design scheme. They can take a stand on that. In addition, the House of Representatives has a right of blocking. In the government's view, this has struck a careful balance between administrative power and parliamentary involvement, once again saying that I am giving this input in an early stage. The consultation phase has just been completed and the proposal has yet to be submitted to the Council of State, as your Chamber has already indicated. Mr Nicolaï had a question about the corona ticket. He said: "The Minister states that this is not included in the first tranche. Can the Minister explain how to interpret Article 58e Wpg? That certainly seems to indicate the possibility of a CTB." A ctb can only be introduced if there is an explicit legal basis for this. I really needed the deadline for Mr Nicolaï's question. As I pointed out, the corona admission ticket is not intended as a measure that could result from pandemic potential. This can only be done if there is an explicit legal basis for it. The bill for the first instalment of the amendment to the Public Health Act does not contain such an explicit basis. On the basis of article 58e Wpg no ctb can be used. The first tranche of the bill includes in Article 58e that a distinction can be made on the basis of a result. This has been included because it is conceivable, for example, that a distinction should be made on the basis of results in the case of entry rules. Here you can think of an exception to a test requirement for travellers who have been vaccinated. Again, that is a measure that we are not taking now and which we do not have in mind. This is a result. Mr Meijer asked what the government could do other than draw up emergency regulations if measures were to be needed. Due to the expiry of the Twm, there is currently no legal basis for action under ministerial regulation. A first tranche adaptation Wpg makes it possible to take collective measures to combat infectious diseases with pandemic potential, such as covid. I have already mentioned the timing for this. Should it be necessary for the adoption of the first tranche of adaptation of the Wpg to take action, I will see whether that route can be accelerated further. However, if the man is in need tomorrow, I have nothing but the use of emergency regulations. There is no preference for this, but practice has shown that legislation often takes some time, which may not be available in such a situation. For the sake of clarity, the current situation with the increase in the number of infections and hospitalisations does not require this. I don't see that in the very immediate future either, but I can't rule anything out. Mr Van Hattem asked: is the Minister prepared to publish the reports of the discussions with experts and participant lists of experts consulted before the Wpg? Participants participated in the expert sessions in a personal capacity. They were allowed to use a confidential conversation. That is why I choose not to make the list of participants and the report fully public. However, you have received the conclusions from the expert sessions sent to all participants. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u322	To reassure Mr Meijer, I am not going to discuss in detail with the Minister. I haven't gotten an answer to that yet. And that is a serious point. The second point is an issue which I have not yet received an answer to. Why should the First Chamber, which is supposed to judge constitutionality and the rule of law, have no right of blocking? I can only say, following what Mr Janssen has said, that it must be clear, even to the Minister, how the Upper House thinks about this. Perhaps the Minister could reconsider this before the proposal goes to the Council of State. I also heard the Minister say: the turnoff switch, that's all going to happen. But as the Minister said, it is about the application of Article 20 as it stands now. Then the question is whether something is going to be deported is not to the Chambers. The Chambers can agree to a proposal by the Minister, for example, to deactivate a power again. But the point is that both Chambers have said: we really just want a switch on and off. And that button isn't there when it comes to shutting it off. We would like a further response from the Minister. As far as I am concerned, this can also be done in the second term, because it may be a complicated legal issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u323	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u324	In any case, I am glad that the Minister says: the ctb is not in it. As a lawyer, I say take a good look. Maybe you should mention that the test result is what the minister was just talking about. Then that's settled. As it stands, you could use that test result for anything. The second point I note is that the Minister is right to say that the designation of COOVID-19 as A1 is already in the draft law. My question was: should I conclude that the Second and First Chambers cannot use an on-off button with regard to COOVID-19 and its powers? If this is already in place, all the powers now contained in this law will automatically apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u325	As you just saw in the reply, I had to look at the lawyers and also the lawyers had to look very closely at the situation, with all the compliments and thanks for Mr Nicolaï. I would like to come back to specific areas in the second term, but I cannot repeat enough that we are discussing it here at the time when it is due to go to the Council of State and I also have to discuss it with the House of Representatives. It's only after that that I should discuss it with you in the end. So I stand here with some restraint, because if I say a lot here, we turn a part of the process around a bit. And you can do it afterwards. I'd like to get back to you in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u326	It is indeed an unusual route, but in this corona period a lot has been unusual. We can now also see that the long-term approach does indeed mention the possibility of creating a legal basis for Ctb. So it's also collapsing. If we then find this in the pieces, then it is very important that we put the question on the table as to whether it really is. If we look at what Mr Nicolaï has just rightly outlined, is the corona access card what is meant in the document by "the result"? I also refer to the explanation given: with a test or vaccination. But isn't that also a kind of national version of the DCC, the corona passport that now applies at European level? Can the Minister explain how that provision relates to such an effort?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u327	Then I'll come back to my answer just now. We do not intend to use a Ctb for the time being. It's not in the first tranche of the Wpg adjustment either. I'm gonna stick with that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u328	If the Minister now confirms and can promise that there will be no CTB, then that is clear. The second point is that the Minister does not want to provide reports and does not want to provide a list of participants of the experts who have been consulted. However, the conclusions have been shared. But we must be able to judge such conclusions on their merits. What has been the question posed to such experts? And which experts have been invited on the basis of what expertise? Now we only have conclusions that we cannot judge, test and verify on their merits. So we simply cannot do our parliamentary work, for which we are here, adequately. I would therefore ask, once again, by appealing to Article 68 of the Constitution, and also knowing that, in view of the premium affair, it is absolutely necessary for personal policy considerations to be made public: is the Minister really not prepared to give those reports to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u329	I indicated in my reply that I attach particular importance to the fact that participants participated in a personal capacity and that they can take account of the confidentiality of the talks. I also trust that in the whole process of consultation, Council of State, discussion in the First Chamber and discussion in the Second Chamber there is sufficient opportunity to assess the bill in all ways, with a lot of expertise present in your Chamber and also present in the Second Chamber and at the Council of State. Sharing conclusions is very useful in this respect for the whole of the journey, but it should also be possible. Then, as regards the conclusion drawn by Mr Van Hattem from the first sentence, namely that I say that there will be no such thing as a ctb. I'm not saying that. I have no intention of introducing that. I have now, and also in the near future, a proposal that this first tranche of Wpg should be adopted, not even the legal framework. But to say that categorically, and perhaps to be pointed out later that I said that it never happens, I cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u330	Finally, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u331	As I've said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u332	To come back to those reports, it is important that we should be able to assess what has been going on and that we should be able to look carefully at them. It is not just a matter of making a few conclusions. We also need to be able to see what expertise has been deployed there, what the question has been, how things have been framed, etc. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, then I am obliged to table a motion on this matter in the second term, and also a motion on the use of the corona ticket.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u333	I have no further answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u334	Sector plan MIT.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u335	Mr. Chairman. In addition to all actions from the Ministry and the Cabinet, sectors have been asked to make plans to prevent and reduce the spread of the virus in their own environment by taking preventive measures at an early stage and by proposing workable intervention measures in the event of a virus revival. Entrepreneurs and institutions have gained a lot of experience over the past two years in what does and does not work in their sector. It is wise for entrepreneurs and institutions to make good plans, because it reduces absenteeism in the workplace and makes it easier for us to adopt heavier measures. In this respect, I am very pleased that many sectors are taking on their responsibilities. The Minister of EZK and the trade departments are working hard with these sectors to complete the sector plans as soon as possible. These plans will then be aligned. Together with the ministers of EZK and SZW, I will inform your two chambers in September about the results of the sectoral approach. We will also inform you in September about the details of the MIT. This brings me to Mrs De Boer and Mr Janssen's question: why put sectoral plans at the centre? And are they going to work? Let me first mention once again what I have already indicated: I am and remain responsible for the approach of corona. We do a lot of things in healthcare for that. We have already spent the last few hours thinking about GGDs, vaccination, testing, monitoring, vaccination policies and advice, care initiatives, etc. Only it is wise that after two and a half years of corona, in which a lot of people have experienced it in the meantime, there is almost no Dutchman who hasn't experienced it in his own environment, in his own classroom or on his own workfloor, inventing what they can do when the infection pressure rises again. I can make it a little sharper: if you don't, you're actually looking like a rabbit in the headlight until there's another wave. Everyone wants to prevent people from getting infected at work, in class, in the area, at the hairdresser or in the gym. Then it is really wise that measures have been taken in all kinds of places and that you know that, for example, if you go to the hairdresser, the hairdresser or the gym or your employer does something at some point. This does not focus on sector plans, but they are extremely relevant to many Dutch citizens. So everyone can contribute to keeping society open by sticking to the basic advice, but also by looking at how you can reduce the risk of infection in your own environment as much as possible. That is, by the way, exactly the sound that you and I have heard many times over the last two years. You know the images and plans of what people did in all kinds of environments. You see it again at all times. On a television programme where I was last week, I saw for the first time in a long time that the visa yeasts were wearing masks again. I did not declare that measure, but I do think it is wise that they should do so in this setting. Mrs De Boer, Mr Verkerk and Mrs Prins asked how we assess whether the sector plans score sufficiently and on the basis of what criteria we do so. Are the criteria known to the sectors? The Minister demands that the plans of the sectors are solid. Does this include the way in which the sectors engage in dialogue with their members? The cabinet welcomes the fact that most sectors have submitted their proposals for sectoral plans in consultation with their supporters. I also welcome the recent call from VNO-NCW to small and medium-sized enterprises. In doing so, they indicated to their supporters that the number of infections is increasing again. They indicated to consider in their own environment whether it offers the possibility of, and requires, specific adjustments that are relatively easy to do. This summer, sector plans will be co-ordinated to identify similarities and differences and, if necessary, to coordinate plans, in order to have a consistent, clear, enforceable and effective set of plans. That is also to prevent, wherever possible, that there are conflicting interests. In the coming weeks, several ministries and agencies will check whether the plans are sound. They do this with input from virologists, occupational hygienists and behavioral scientists. The basis for the measures is the maintenance of hygiene measures, the application of basic advice and ventilation. In addition, RIVM has given generic attention to measures in many different aspects. Mrs De Boer asked: why is coordination at EZK? What is the role of the Minister of Health and of the MP? As I have said, I am responsible for the overarching long-term strategy for COVID-19. The Minister of EZK, from its responsibility for many sectors concerned, has taken responsibility for being the driver of the sector plans. As Minister of EZK, she, together with the Minister of SZW, focuses on the corona goal of social and economic continuity. In particular, it is responsible for developing the sectoral approach, while the Minister of SZW has specifically assumed responsibility for the MIT. Decision-making on corona is and remains the responsibility of the entire cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Boer asked: who will decide when sector plans will be put into effect and on what criteria? Mrs Nanninga asked: to what extent is the letter for the Minister a roadmap? How sure is the long-term strategy? I have already indicated that RIVM is following the situation on the basis of a variety of available indicators. Through their response team, they regularly, weekly and if necessary more frequently give the Ministry an update, an explanation, if they deem it necessary. If necessary, they often do so. On the basis of this explanation, the government will send a signal to sectors when it appears necessary to do so. If necessary, the Cabinet shall also take measures, focusing on the two secondary and equivalent objectives of the Corona Policy. Those targets are set against the scenarios of the WRR and the KNAW. I have already mentioned an intervention system with pre-set signal values. Mrs De Boer also asked: who is monitoring compliance with the sector plans? We are talking to the sectors about the measures they can use. At an early stage of an upsurge, these may be preventive measures that need not be legally enforceable, such as indicating routes or doing a health check. In doing so, sectors themselves are responsible for compliance and support for their supporters. I've just given an example. At a later stage, a legal guarantee for more collective measures, such as an obligation to protect the face, may be necessary. Then there will be a strong focus on behavior and compliance. If the situation so requires, follow-up of the measures will be important for everyone and will be maintained by supervisors. Mr Karakus said that the Minister should be more binding on sector plans and set a deadline for delivering the plans. The sectors and the departments concerned are working hard to complete these plans as soon as possible. The Minister of EZK is in repeated consultation on this matter. It is the ambition that all sectors should have the sector plans ready by mid-July, i.e. shortly. They are further developed, checked and coordinated in the summer. In September, the Chamber will be informed about the results of this process. Mrs Prins asked if all entrepreneurs in a sector should comply with the sector plans. Sectoral plans are at the basis of the measures to be taken in the event of a new revival of the coronavirus. Sectors may take preventive measures in the event of a slight outbreak of the virus. This is the responsibility and compliance of the entrepreneurs themselves. Employers' organisations such as VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands call on sectors to comply with the basic measures. In the event of a more severe outbreak of the virus, more stringent intervention measures may be needed, which require legal safeguards. I have just said something about this. I would like to point out once again in this context that the primary importance of these sectoral plans for local businesses or for schools and so on is first and foremost for the parties themselves. After all, these plans help to reduce staff drop-out as much as possible. This failure, as we have just mentioned in response to Mrs De Boer's question, can also be very long-term. As has just been discussed in the context of education, these plans can also help to give employees a stronger sense of security. Mr van der Voort asked what measures citizens can expect in what order, which sectors are the first to close and which sectors are not locked. The starting point of the long-term strategy is an open society. There is no order in relation to contact restrictions and the closing of entire sectors, with one exception: education and childcare are at the bottom of the pile and the same applies to outdoor sports. Mr van der Voort then asked about the sectoral plan of the cultural sector. What are the appointments? Can the culture stay open during a lockdown? I fully agree with Mr van der Voort that the cultural sector plays an important role in our society, for young and old, throughout all sections of the population. That is why I want to keep culture open as long as possible, as well as other sectors. That is the whole commitment of the cabinet plan and that is why we are currently adjusting the plans. We really want to be faced with as few drastic measures as possible. Mrs Prins asked what financial compensation there would be if measures had to be taken. My colleagues from Economic Affairs, Finance and SZW have sent your Chamber a long-term view on corona support. It explains for different scenarios what this means for the financial support packages. In short, entrepreneurs need to be able to anticipate measures and adapt their business operations. We have seen good examples and I have confidence in them. Together with sectors, we are looking at how sectors can best implement this. Only in the worst case scenario, if entrepreneurs have to close the door for a long time, will we use support, preferably not as a blanket across the economy, which would nip dynamics again, but targeted or sectoral. Mr Verkerk asked: what sectors is the Minister missing? We have called for sectors where many people come together and which have often been subject to restrictions in recent years. That was the question about the sector plans. We recognise that society is much wider than just these sectors. The cabinet has therefore also held round tables with a broad representation from society, including, in addition to sectors, young people, the elderly, people with vulnerable health and municipalities. The cabinet encourages target groups, institutions and other sectors to also consider what preventive measures they can take to prevent contamination. In doing so, we stress the importance of complying with the basic measures, including self-testing in case of complaints. Churches and other religious institutions have been reminded by the Minister of Honor of the long-term approach and of the need and possibility to prepare for the different scenarios of the virus. I was actually expecting a question from the Minister of Honor when she was still here. Mr Verkerk and Mrs Prins asked if I could promise that there will also be expertise in the MIT in terms of meaning and spirituality, and representatives of people with vulnerable health. The core task of the MIT will be to advise on the social and economic impact of the corona policy. It is ultimately up to the MIT itself to assess how broad or narrow it interprets this assignment and what expertise is needed for this. My colleague, the Minister of SZW, has appointed Jolande Sap as quartermaster of MIT. It is currently preparing a proposal for the completion of the MIT. I will therefore ask my colleague, the Minister of SZW, to direct your wish to the quartermaster. Mr Nicolaï asked: does the Minister agree with me that the advice which preceded the adoption of a ministerial measure to combat an epidemic should be regulated by law? Mr Nicolaï referred to Article 58c of the proposal, which lays down procedural rules relating to the position of the States General. Is the Minister prepared to deal with these issues and include them in the proposal? Can the Minister indicate the status of the MIT? Getting advice from experts is part of careful decision-making. I don't see any added value in laying this down by law. We are currently working, as mentioned, on the further development of the MIT. The legal status of the MIT as well as the appointment procedures are part of this development. I shall come back to this with the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment by letter of Parliament in September. Then Mr Meijer asked: does the MIT not advise on the area that politicians are for? The MIT advises on the social and economic impact of the corona policy. It is up to the cabinet to weigh the OMT and MIT opinions in full. We will always strive for an optimal result for everyone. They've been tough choices in the past. This could happen again in the event of a revival. In the end, the choice of whether or not to use measures is a political decision. Finally, Mr Meijer asked why the MIT opinion was not passed by the BAO? We will consider options for weighting on administrative feasibility and desirability of the MIT opinion. I come back to this in September, as mentioned, together with the Minister of SZW in the next letter of Parliament. Mr President, so much for this heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u336	We'll get to the O.V.V.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u337	On 1 July last, the Security Research Council published a follow-up note with recommendations in response to our cabinet response on 1 April. The president of the OVV also gave an interview in the Volkskrant, to which Mrs De Boer and Mr Van der Voort referred. The follow-up to the recommendations is still being worked hard three months after the delivery of the cabinet response. As you understand, it takes time. The first steps have been taken, including the long-term strategy. This is, of course, not the end point, but the very beginning of hard work. The situation is thus different now than two years ago, in the initial phase of the pandemic, which is the subject of the OVV report. The Netherlands is better prepared and protected. This is also because many people have been vaccinated or had a previous infection. It remains important that people get their repeat shot, because we are not rid of the virus. I have identified many different activities of what we are doing in the meantime with regard to keeping the virus in view, possibly scaling up vaccination and testing policies, clinical capacity and so on. The OVV report and Mr Dijsselbloem's interview refer to central management of healthcare, including public health care and health care services. Together with the GGD, RIVM and other parties I am working on a better preparation for a future pandemic. One of its components is the creation of a national functionality in the fight against infectious diseases, which your Chamber was informed about on 3 June last. This will be a crisis organisation that will do two things on my behalf, and together with the GGDs: firstly, the preparation for a future pandemic and secondly, the operational management of large-scale disease control at the time of a crisis. Then Mr Janssen asked whether the second part of the OVV report has already been submitted to the cabinet for comment, and whether the recommendations in that section are already being proactively taken up and not until the report has been published. The OVV has indeed made available to a limited group of directors part two for inspection of factual inaccuracies. Directors will respond to this individually. The inspection report shall contain no recommendations. The publication of the OVV report with recommendations is expected after the summer, after which the cabinet will react. Then Mr Janssen also indicated: the cabinet does not seem to want to dwell on the corona policy and just look to the future; please have a reflection. In drawing up the long-term strategy, the experience and lessons of the past two years have been taken into account. I have regularly reflected on this in the answer to the questions so far, I think. In this way, broad input has also been collected from different parties in society. The sectoral approach also looks at the experiences of entrepreneurs and institutions over the past two years with what works or does not work in their sector. In addition, the government has involved the OVV's recommendations in the preparation of the long-term strategy. Mr President, so far this response, with as one of the important points that some of the points indicated by the OVV, such as central management in times of crisis at a GD or at care, require a longer journey than two months after a cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u338	I had also said a few things about the OVV and Mr Dijsselbloem. The Minister says: we have asked for all kinds of input everywhere. But I don't think that was the problem the OVV raised and that I raised this morning. That is because there has been no reflection towards the people. It was never said "sorry, we have..." "How do you put it diplomatically?" "... didn't do well." I had different words in my head. That is also what the OVV is referring to: that it is not possible to start with a clean slate until that is said. It's getting a little muffled away now. Why don't you just say "sorry, my predecessor just didn't do it right at all, and we should acknowledge that"? Is that because he's still in your cabinet? What prevents you from doing that is my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u339	No, that's not because he's still in my cabinet. And also with regard to this evaluation: I am his successor, so this evaluation of what happened to the department and how the department acted is also in my assessment. So that's not why. What I have just done is indicate something about the situational situation. Look at the policy, for example. Reference was made to statements on the impact of vaccination. Turning the clock back, it was with the knowledge of then the thought of being fed as well; I said something about the first results from England almost literally: with this pricking we simply prick ourselves out of the pandemic. In the meantime, reality is different. So I also very much indicate the situational. Did we do things wrong? Yeah, things must have gone wrong. I have also named them for myself in my own role. I also think - and I have also mentioned this on occasion - that, in the context of what the first report was about, I have also discussed it with Mr Dijsselbloem last week, we may once again have a discussion with all of them about the fact that, in the situation for covid carers themselves, they were responsible for their prevention of infection, their protocols, their stocks and so on. That's how we set it up. We can say something about that now and we have to do it differently, but that was the way it was designed. I see Mrs. Prince nodding yes. She was a caretaker at the time. It was me. That's how you arranged it. Suddenly, there was a situation where it turned out that a lot of healthcare institutions just didn't have this in order. Then a government was looked at and my predecessor suddenly had a huge problem around ordering all kinds of materials that were still available some time before. When the footage from Wuhan was on the news, I myself, as caretaker for my own institution, increased the stock from three months to one and a half years. I said, "Smash them up. If we don't need them, we'll use them; there's a long shelf life on them." But others didn't. What I blamed myself for is that I didn't send a message to all the drivers in my own ROAZ, from: guys, maybe you should consider this; I'll do it. That's what I ran into. I've blamed myself for that endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u340	Yeah, but now we're talking about individual caregivers again. In the end, of course, the buck stops with the minister of health. The buck stops with you. In the end, you are ultimately responsible, I say to the Minister. Then we can have the typical polder reflex again, of "they're a lot of decision-makers and everyone had to do their thingy," but in the end that doesn't solve the polarization and the discontent there is. We need to distance ourselves first, and we need to recognise, both in a court of law and in the public eye, that significant errors have been made. Otherwise people will no longer listen to good advice, or at least some of the people. I do miss that in replying to the Minister, and I am very sorry to hear that, because we really insisted on that this morning. I am sorry that that insight has not completely landed. In that sense, our mission today has not been entirely successful, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u341	I just wanted to come back to the FVC, unless it comes back elsewhere in the answer. I had asked about the division of roles between the FVC and the GGD, because some of the tasks that the FVC is going to do have been with the GGD so far. How is this going to be with the coordination between the two and with the control, which is also different? The GGD is part of the municipality and the LFI is part of the RIVM. How does the Minister see it that this is also happening flawlessly in a situation where there is a lot of pressure on the kettle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u342	On the subject of other issues, there are still a number of questions on the one hand and the other on the other. May I come back to that in a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u343	We'll get back to that later. Mrs. Prins also sees reason to take her seat again. Then we come to the subject of other subjects, including obesity and zoonoses, if I am right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u344	Yes. It's "other" for a reason, Mr. Chairman. It's all kinds of stuff together; FVC et cetera. I would like to start by returning to Mr Karakus' question as to whether the cabinet is also prepared to communicate in other languages. I just said something about it. The answer is: yes, we have been doing that for a long time. We want to be able to reach people well and that is why there is also public communication in multiple languages. Mr Verkerk asked what the crisis structure would look like within VWS. Is there going to be a separate crisis structure that includes VWS, RIVM and FVC? Who's in there? Can it decide quickly? Within the regular departmental crisis structure of VWS there are two crisis teams: the operational team crisis management, with a director-level chairman, and the policy team crisis management, with a chairman at dg-level. The decision to activate the departmental crisis structure is taken by the most involved dg. This structure already existed before the COOVID-19 pandemic. A crisis team will be added to this structure at the level of the rulers. Participation in the teams shall be determined on the basis of the agenda, with as many permanent participants as possible. This structure is open to liaisons of organisations such as RIVM and LFI, as soon as the situation gives rise to this. The aim is, of course, to be able to take decisions as quickly and carefully as possible. Then Mr Verkerk also asked what the crisis structure at cabinet level would look like. Who's on the crisis team? A separate ministerial commission COVID-19, MCC19, has been set up to deal with the CoVID-19 pandemic following the scaling-down of the national crisis structure, with the corresponding official presentations. This is a structure which always meets at regular intervals and can meet and take decisions at any time, if necessary, ad hocly. In addition, the cabinet actively monitors the situation, with the government representatives consulting with the most concerned ministers. For situations where national security is, or may be, at stake, and vital interests of society are threatened with potential social disruption, the national crisis structure may enter into force for each individual crisis or incident. Mr Otten asked about the Chief Medical Officer in place of the OMT and the Health Council. The chief medical officer is a title used in many countries for a senior official, usually also a medical officer, who serves as a point of contact for medical matters within a health ministry. Within the Ministry's organisation, this role is divided among several civil servants. Also at RIVM there is currently no need for a chief medical officer for that reason. In any case, it cannot replace advisory bodies such as the OMT or the Health Council. Then Mrs.Prins asked to what extent the FVC already has the space to control uniform ICT and process systems within the various GGDs. GGDs are municipal services. This means that the municipalities are now responsible for ensuring that the health services are able to perform their tasks properly in the fight against infectious diseases. This includes the management of the GGD. Technically, the FVC is not yet in a position. It will follow in the course of 2023, on the basis of a modification of the Wpg. Central information requirements are laid down by the FVC to ensure that a more uniform approach can be rapidly scaled up in crisis times. In addition, in consultation with GGD, GHOR and RIVM, a so-called high-level design has been developed, in which framework requirements and principles are combined for a landscape for information provision that is ready for a pandemic. This will be developed over the next six months in a step-by-step plan for adaptation and establishment in the fight against infectious diseases. Mr Van der Voort asked what is the relationship between the GGD and the FVC. From the summer of 2023, the FVC is expected to start its leading role in a possible future pandemic. In that case, the FVC will have a coordinating role. The GGDs themselves remain the primary performers of the infectious disease control. In the warm and cold phase, the FVC has the next relationship with the GGD. In the cold phase, by changing the Wpg, the method of working of the GGD on some parts will be unified by means of framework setting. The purpose of this is to be able to scale up processes quickly in crisis time; we were just talking about it. In the warm phase, by changing the Wpg, the Minister of VWS can have direct control over the GGD's in carrying out the medical-operational processes around an A-disease with a national impact. Both the cold and the warm phase are now further developed and aligned with the GGD and chain batches. There will be room for the GGDs to provide regional tailor-made services, where appropriate, within the national frameworks. Again, this is reflected in the opinions of the OVV report. If I describe here what is needed for this, you will understand that three months after the Juice of the Cabinet cannot be operational. I also refer to the response. Mr Meijer asked what the FVC could not do if there was no legal anchoring. How is progress already being made in anticipation of a settlement? As an organisation, the FVC does not need to be legally anchored in the Wpg. Only the Organisational Decision VWS is amended. The FVC is in place and will only be operational by the middle of 2023. Until then, the existing power to appoint the Presidents of the security regions is being worked on. I am currently in the process of changing the Wpg to allow direct guidance by the Minister of VWS on GMDs in the event of an epidemic of an A disease with a national impact. In addition, the law is adapted to allow the cold phase framework to achieve uniformity in the GGDs for certain elements. Mr Van der Voort pointed out that worse living conditions and overweight give more chance of serious disease by covid, and that he advocated poverty reduction, training, addressing loneliness and good housing. He likes to hear the Minister's point of view. The pursuit of a healthy weight and a healthy living environment is an important ambition of the cabinet. The cabinet maintains the ambition of the 2018 National Prevention Agreement to reduce overweight and obesity to 1995 levels by 2040. The State Secretary shares the commitment to tackling overweight after the summer with the Chamber. Especially in neighbourhoods with a lower economic class we often see a lower vaccination rate. For this reason, the GGDs are specifically committed to this, both with communication and with fine-meshed vaccination. This also answers Mr Nicolaï's question as to what concrete steps are being taken to reduce obesity. That's what the Secretary of State will come back to. Mrs Prins asked about the young people: the backwardness of their social skills and also the loneliness. What else can the government do about it? The Secretary of State of VWS, together with OCW and SZW, recently presented the approach to mental health, with the initiative to provide extra support for young people, working with municipalities, with MIND Us, with social service, with NOC*NSF, with Scouting Netherlands and a mentally healthy neighborhood. MIND Us explores how more low-threshold access facilities can be set up. With MDT and Young Impact, young people are encouraged to work for society. The leisure association explores the role they can play in this. Mr Nicolaï asked if the Minister could indicate where it was legally regulated that he could intervene as an animal disease that is actually or potentially transferable to people developing in farms, and that he had perseverance at some point. The Animal Law already empowers the Cabinet to take measures to prevent and control infectious animal diseases in order to protect animal and public health, such as the breeding ban previously applied to minks. The Public Health Act provides for powers to take measures in relation to people, buildings, goods and means of transport, not animals. That is not necessary either, because the Animal Law already provides for it. If there is a threat to public health from animal holdings, work will be carried out in accordance with the zoonoses structure. In doing so, VWS coordinates policy and decision-making. This is done in collaboration with the Minister of LNV, RIVM, local directors and GGD's. The two ministers decide by mutual agreement and retain their own policy responsibilities, with public health at the forefront in all cases. Perseverance for VWS is not desired and not necessary. We have good agreements on responsibilities and this has worked well, for example, in dealing with minks with SARS-CoV-2 in 2020. Mr Nicolaï also asked: I note that the Zoonosis Action Plan will be presented this summer, can the Minister promise that the plan will also address the question of which advisory bodies are involved and how they relate to the OMT and RIVM? Indeed, I intend to send the national action plan to the Chamber very soon, together with the Minister for Nature and Nitrogen and the Minister for Nature. That action plan explains how the zoonoses structure works. There are experts from all the institutes that know zoonoses. In the event of an imminent zoonotic outbreak, the scale shall be scaled up to the administrative level if necessary. Public health is then a guiding principle. The VWS Minister is in charge of decision-making. The decision-making process is not under discussion and functions well. I mentioned the example of mink and SARS-CoV-2. Then Mr Van Hattem asked: can the Minister reflect on China's influence on the WHO and the Global Treaty? In principle, each country has a voice within the WTO. The relationship between the WHO and China is currently complicated by China's covid policy and their possible role in the outbreak of the virus. For example, the WTO recently indicated that China's zero-covid policy is not sustainable. With regard to the establishment of the pandemic treaty, China has a voice like other countries. At present, there is no particular role to be played in achieving this. Then Mr Van Hattem asked: can the Minister explain how care is being taken for an inclusive negotiation process? What does this mean with a global treaty? During the process there are so-called "public hearings," in which anyone can give input. The first hearings took place on 12 and 13 April, in which Dutch persons also provided input. All Member States also have an equal vote. At the end of the negotiations, it can be determined whether the Netherlands will actually become a party to the instrument. If the instrument takes the form of an international treaty, it will be submitted to Parliament in accordance with the approval procedure. Then Mr Van Hattem asked why the cabinet authorised the European Commission to negotiate on behalf of the Netherlands? Does the Netherlands still have a say in the European agreements? The Convention is not about covid, but about international cooperation on prevention, preparation and response in the event of a pandemic. Because it is about cross-border health problems, it is important to hang out with our EU partners. When the EU speaks with one voice, we have more influence. A special committee has been set up in the EU in which we, as Member States, can further shape the EU negotiating position. Moreover, this role of the European Commission is particularly relevant to issues which fall partly or entirely within the competence of the European Union. Any issues within the competence of the Member States themselves will be the subject of negotiation by the Member States themselves. Mr Van Hattem also asked about the temporary law for the CoronaMelder app and why I want to keep it in the air. Can I say why they don't say goodbye? At least until February 2023, the GDPDs shall take into account a scenario in which source and contact research and large-scale testing are again necessary due to a revival with a more sickening variant. I would therefore like to retain the possibility to turn the CoronaMelder back on if necessary, because the app can have a small but noticeable added value in such a situation. Mr Van Hattem said: the cabinet stated in the letter that it would commit itself to a "including negotiation process" et cetera et cetera. Can the Minister translate this into Dutch? What does a global treaty mean for our own parliament? First of all, with regard to its significance, it means that the cabinet is committed to a process in which not only Member States are heard, but in which other parties can also contribute to a pandemic treaty. It is committed to a process of negotiation aimed at a broad representation of all stakeholders and in which the importance of human rights is guaranteed, with a specific focus on gender equality. I have already mentioned the public hearings and the further process. Then Mr Meijer said: the increase in own responsibility is presented as if the responsibility of the government would be reduced. I think I've already adequately addressed this one. Finally, Mr Meijer asked: how measurable are the two main objectives of the cabinet? The two objectives are of a qualitative nature. This means that they cannot be quantitatively indicated, or that they can be opposed to each other or exchanged. They are equivalent and complementary, and it is up to the Cabinet to decide, on the basis of broad advice, if necessary, to make an administrative assessment of the need for action. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u345	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u346	I had asked the Minister another question about the vaccine donation policy, including around Get one, give one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u347	Yeah, that's right, too. I've seen that question. I don't know where he is anymore. Maybe he's between vaccinations and I don't know, but I can give you the answer right now. That has indeed always been the commitment. That is, in general, still the stakes. In the meantime, however, we see that in many countries and in many places it is no longer about receiving a vaccine, but rather about being able to administer a vaccine and reaching people. We'll help with that, too. During the first period, I am talking in particular about 2021, which is "use one here and give one away" in general. I don't know the exact numbers. At the moment we notice that if you make vaccines available, there is less reduction and the problems are more on a different plane.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u348	Agreed. This means that the Minister is now saying that he is focusing his policy on strengthening a country's ability to vaccinate and that, if there is a vaccine shortage in the future, he is going back to the old policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u349	Yes. So we will continue to work to help countries if they so wish. If that is not the case with making a vaccine available because they already have it, then it is necessary with other expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u350	I see that as a commitment in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u351	Mr Van Hattem with a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u352	Sure. Just a brief word on the WTO Treaty. The Minister said that all countries have an equal say in this. Well, Taiwan can't participate because of China, so that voice doesn't count. I have another question. There's a reason we asked the Minister to hold on to that piece on the CoronaMelder app until today's discussion. Now I hear the Minister say in reply that this app has played a small but meaningful role. Now I haven't been able to discover that meaningful role at all so far. Could the Minister perhaps back up what that meaningful role should be in?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u353	This significant role exists in the field of source and contact research. There are situations where, especially in the past, we have seen that it was relevant that people were alerted that they had been in the immediate vicinity of an infected person. Now, on a very small scale, source and contact research is taking place. In particular, these are very specific settings. It's not happening wide anymore, like before. I am keeping in mind the possibility that some things that we no longer need will be needed at some point in time. So I'm not putting them all away at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u354	What is being put away is the legal basis for it. Should he ever be needed again, he could be resurrected, if this is already a useful instrument. The Minister says that this is the case for source and contact research, but I don't think I've ever seen brilliant results of this app in that context, let alone that half of the Netherlands have been jubilant with that app. On the contrary, I think it has been used very little and has produced very limited results. What is the practical point, given that it is no longer widely used, is not widely used and not used in large numbers, in order to continue it in this way? Is it not better to just close this for the moment and, should it ever be necessary, to set up a new arrangement and just discuss it properly and to focus on its frameworks and framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u355	Mr Van Hattem is talking about closure. It's about keeping it available so we can turn it back on. We can make it really big. We can make it very small. We can also put it a bit in today's debate: what is the Minister doing to be prepared as widely as possible in an unforeseen situation for a revival that calls for action and where you want society to remain as wide-ranging as possible? I would be very pleased if Mr Van Hattem would compliment him on saying: I am glad that the Minister still keeps this opportunity available; if we are a year further away and know that it will not come back, put him by the trash can, but very wise that he should keep it for a while. The same applies to the GGD and the GGD test capacity. At the moment, we do not use the test capacity very widely. It would be an outcome for the GGD if we said that we no longer go to wide-scale testing. In close consultation with the GGD we have said that we cannot rule out the possibility that in a short period of time there will be a situation with a new variant for which the self-tests are less suitable. So I really want the GGDs to stay alert and be prepared for the possibility of doing another 100,000 tests in a short time. I am grateful to the GD for their commitment to this. In a broad sense it is better safe than sorry, with excuse for the English language here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u356	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u357	Finally. It's not just a blunt saw that you leave in the corner of the barn and you don't have to look at for years. This is an instrument in which costs are incurred for the management, maintenance and so on of the instrument. Since there are considerable costs involved, I would ask the Minister whether it is not much more useful to put it aside at the moment and to use the money available elsewhere better and more efficiently in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u358	You can count on me to make a continuous assessment of the whole Corona policy and to take the costs into account. Over the past two and a half years, care has cost the care of covid patients, but also the vaccination programme and testing incredibly much money. That, too, is a factor that we must bear in mind. It's a continuous weighing. Here I have made the assessment that it makes sense, also in the light of costs, to keep that up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u359	Thank you, Minister. We shall now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u360	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have heard a number of interesting things in the introduction from the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, Mr Nicolaï's filleting of the legislative proposal in consultation was very useful. I was also surprised to hear the VVD spokesperson probleming privatisation in healthcare and pleading for more commitment from the government to promoting a healthy lifestyle. I think that together we have all adequately covered the long-term perspective on the approach to corona. In my first term, I asked whether the government is doing enough with a focus on direction, responsibility and perseverance. From the Minister's answers, for which I am grateful, I hear above all ambition for the future and short-term consultation and coordination. That's nice, but not enough. To speak with the OVV: it appears that the cabinet has not yet turned all interventions into clear solutions and action perspectives. More concrete initiatives and actions are needed to deal with both the current coronapandemic and other long-term crises. Not words, but deeds. The question is whether we have the time to wait for the cabinet letter that was promised to us before September. I am also not entirely convinced that the government is on the right track with regard to the follow-up to the recommendations of the OVV. For example, the Minister said about the direction and coordination of care: at the moment I do not have any more control; other than consultation I can do nothing. In our view, this answer is illustrative. The cabinet says it will implement the recommendations of the OVV. Let me take a look at recommendation eight: "Adjust the crisis structure for the care field. Ensure that the VWS Minister has the power to effectively address cross-sector, regional or institutional problems, including in any case with directly binding indications." On 1 July, the Council noted the ambition of the cabinet to follow the recommendation, but that more concrete implementation is desirable. The Council calls on the government to take further action on the level of this perseverance. I heard the minister say that he doesn't think that the perseverance in the case of zoonoses is necessary. I wonder how this relates to the recommendation of the OVV. During the debate, the Minister referred a number of times to the SZW and OCW ministers regarding the social impact, for example from post-covid. I understand that, but I find that difficult, too. This minister is directing the Corona approach, isn't he? It also raises the question of the weighting of different interests and how they interact. And what is the associated advisory and decision-making structure and the distribution of responsibilities? Even after today's debate, we are not confident that all this has been well invested. In particular, if a situation were to arise this summer in which the balance of interests must be weighed down and responsibility must be taken into account. Nor have our hesitations with regard to direction in relation to the sectoral plans been completely removed. Once again, it is mainly about the direction, implementation, scaling up, compliance and the responsibilities to be shared. A single remark on the first tranche of Wpg. I shall confine myself for now to the position of the First Chamber, because I think it would be useful for us to send a message to the Minister in advance. The Minister states that the involvement of the States General is sufficiently secured with a one-week suspension procedure for both Chambers with a blocking right for the Lower House. I note that this makes the control of the First Chamber almost illusory, also given the frequency of meetings of the First Chamber. This is all the more important when the choice is only between "enable all powers" and "enable no powers." In the legislative proposal now under consultation, it does not seem possible to activate some of the powers. I do not need an answer from the Minister now, but I would ask him to take a closer look at this. Mr President, so much for my second contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u361	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I call Mr Van der Voort on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u362	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers and I thank colleagues for the interesting input and also for the questions that have been asked. Our group would also like to express its gratitude to the Minister and his officials who, we believe, have worked hard to prepare themselves for a possible increase in the burden of disease by covid, later this year. Many in this Chamber and beyond believe that the sectoral plans and other plans are still insufficient, but the Minister is still busy to shape them further and to make progress in the coming weeks and months. We therefore rely on this to develop into a policy that is sufficient to achieve the objectives set. We hope that, despite the work that has been done and has yet to be done, there will still be room for the Minister and others to enjoy the summer recess that is to come. Then I still have a question about the FVC. It still puzzles me. Suppose the GGD needs a lot more vaccination or testing capacity, but that the FVC hasn't returned it, as the agreement is. Who then resolves and decides this conflict between these parties? Once again, that will naturally occur in a situation where there is a lot of pressure on the boiler. Then there is the issue of vaccination on our own initiative, as we have brought into the debate. We have discussed this at length. I would like to give it to the Minister to bear this in mind if he is talking to RIVM or other parties about this at some point. I would also like to leave this point to rest. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u363	Thank you, Mr. Van der Voort. I call Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u364	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and his officials for the answers. I've enjoyed a lot of answers. Thank you very much for that. Our group has also seen that much has happened, especially in the care sector. I'm thinking about the expert team and the task force. I think this is easily snowed under in this debate. That's too bad. Our group would like to support the Minister in his view that the focus on more ic-beds is the wrong approach. You just have to make sure that the ic-beds aren't full and you have to have good policies for that. I would like to thank the Minister for a number of commitments. First, the commitment that he will share with us the talks he will have with the local authorities and that he will update the role of local authorities in the long-term covid policy. Also thank you that he will pass on the question of meaning and spirituality to the quartermasters of the MIT. Also thank you for the commitment in the field of vaccine donation policy that the government will focus on strengthening the structure of the administration of vaccines in the countries concerned, and that in the event of a deficit there will be a "get one, give one'. Mr. Chairman. When I tried to think about the Minister's long-term policy as suggested in his letter of 13 June, I focused on three questions. These are those of the government, those of the local authorities and those of society. I'm not gonna repeat that. Our group is convinced that the government is doing what is necessary. I am very curious whether, if we are a little further and some legal issues are settled, we will indeed have a crisis structure that meets the suggestions and proposals made by the OVV. Let me put it this way. So we're gonna keep following this. Thank you for having a conversation, going and continuing to discuss their role with the local authorities. I think we're easily underestimating that role. This has to do with the idea that the resilience of society does not start high in The Hague, but in the families, in the neighbourhoods, in the villages, and so on. I would also like to thank the Minister for all that he is doing around the sectors. At the beginning of the corona crisis, there were many criticisms of the fact that the sectors had to swallow what was happening from The Hague. Attention has been paid to the responsibility of society itself. If sectors have to take responsibility and develop plans, it just takes time. Our group understands that. The Minister clearly states that he wants to have these stories on 15 July, and that he is going to put them on top of each other and look at the quality of them. Our group welcomes this. We also believe that this is the way to achieve much better compliance with the measures in society, because the sectors feel the ownership of what has been agreed. At least I hope so. Mr. Chairman. There have been a number of talks about the growing contradictions in society. In previous debates, I have also explicitly called for this to be taken into account. In this debate, it has been suggested a number of times that this seems to me to be too easy to say that these growing contradictions are due to the failure of one particular minister in the past, or to the failure of the cabinet in the past. I think that's really too easy. These analyses have no regard for what is happening in the whole of society. I am thinking, for example, of the French philosopher Latour, who explicitly shows that a great deal is happening in society. He actually refers to the failure of certain aspects of neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u365	You're almost done, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u366	I'm almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u367	Finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u368	I would like to ask the Minister, because that seems very important to me, whether he can somehow give a meta-analysis of the contradictions in society. Let me just use the word the Minister likes to use. Why is that so important to me? Because that also means a lot for the covid and vaccination policy. I know that's not easy. So we don't have to do that in the short term. I think it would be good if we reflected on that point as well. What happens in society? How can we, as politicians, spark that fire? I would also like to invite my colleagues. I'll try to do this myself. Is the way in which we conduct the debate, the words we use and the extent to which we play or not play on the man or on the policy, something that can help to stir up the contradictions? I look forward to the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u369	Can Mr Verkerk be a little precise about who this is about? Otherwise, I'm gonna feel like I'm being talked to. I talked about polarization, but I didn't charge anyone. Who are you speaking to? You keep such a general story now. I think I heard one colleague scream about the previous minister tonight. Is this about the co-worker? Or should anyone else feel addressed? What's this about?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u370	Some of my colleagues have spoken from a deep commitment about the contradictions in society. They have also said: I do not care, I suffer from that, and something must be done about it, including in the field of communication. I have no need to mention names, because you have all followed the debate. I'll just say it's too easy for me. I take this statement entirely for myself, and let me now take it entirely into my own hands. I find it too easy to link the contradictions surrounding covid in society with the failure of one minister or the failure of the cabinet. We now also see very clearly that those who settled on the contradictions around covid are now fossilising on Ukraine. And in a while, they're gonna be re-focusing on something else. Let me make it even more specific: I did not have my dear colleague Hamit Karakus in mind. That'll reassure him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u371	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Then the floor is for Mrs Prins of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u372	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply and for the clarification of parts. That helps. Of course, there are still a number of things I would like to mention. I must say that I continue to have difficulty with the Minister's reaction that people with vulnerable health under 60 years of age and undergoing treatment with the GP do not get the opportunity to have a fourth vaccination. I certainly do not want to repeat the discussion, but I would like to remind you, because I still find it difficult to explain. I ask the Minister to reconsider this for once, despite all the advice that is available. I would like to thank the Minister for passing on the request to include a representative on behalf of vulnerable citizens in the MIT. After all, the MIT will assess the impact of possible measures on our society from the social perspective. Let us not forget that, unfortunately, the number of vulnerable citizens in our country is a large part of our society. The CDA Group also welcomes the Minister's initiative to prepare a legislative proposal on clear agreements on the direction and powers within the various ROAZs. We are happy to await the proposal. Mr. Chairman. The waiting lists for various operations continue to worry us. Of course the inventory is a first step, but we still find the approach somewhat non-binding. We note that, as a society at its core, we depend on the vision and opinion of hospital administrators. Are they really prepared to let the patient's interests prevail over the interests of the hospital? I might say it a little blunt, I'll admit it, but I'll make it sharp. The good hospital administrators certainly not too much; let me add that, but the shirt is sometimes closer than the skirt. The CDA Group suggests to the Minister that the possibility of central control should be examined by law, at least for the time being, in order to ensure that the situation improves. In doing so, we ask the Minister, in view of the challenges of care in the coming years, as he has also pointed out, to set a course in motion, preferably very much out of the box, in order to develop proposals for how we, as a society, shape care and hospital care as part of it in the future. This could be part of the Integrated Healthcare Agreement, so that we can explicitly strive to make the waiting lists, but also the future of care more future-proof. That's a request. Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the sectoral plans. We ask the Minister to ensure that all members of a particular sector comply with the sectoral plan adopted. After all, that creates a clear level playing field. Moreover, we welcome the Minister's commitment that, if it is really necessary, targeted financial support should preferably be possible. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u373	That puts you at the end of your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u374	I'm at the end of my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u375	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u376	I hear Mrs Prins from the CDA arguing that hospital management should in many cases put the patient more at the centre. Now there are enough hospitals in the country, I call a hospital like Bernhoven in Uden, who at least tried and have come up with a new approach. But they're really running into financial opportunities right now. At some point, they're in financial trouble. My question to Mrs Prins is whether we should not look beyond the role of the hospital authorities. Is it not also a question of how to finance the general system of hospitals? Isn't it broader than the role and choice of the drivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u377	I think it is very good that we should have an overall survey of this, and I would not like to take the Bernhoven hospital as an example because it is much more than just a financial route. So I'd like to leave that out for a while. But look together at how we can make not only the hospitals but the whole care future-proof and where perhaps funding is included, I would like to see it as research. For example, this could be part of the Integrated Healthcare Agreement. It's not that I say right away that it has to be, but it's possible to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u378	That's actually the crux. Shouldn't we just look at the wide-ranging care, with emphasis on regular hospital care? It needs to be better manned structurally, in terms of salaries and investment, and it needs to be better financed. It just needs to be paid more attention to that. What they're dealing with right now is just undersized. More and more hospitals are running into this. It's too easy to leave it alone with the board. Doesn't the funding of the hospitals mean that there should be another blow? Shouldn't we be making more structural use of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u379	When I talk about financing, I am not talking about financing the scale of wages. I do not want to talk about that, because it falls within a different framework. I am concerned about the overall healthcare system and how we can make it future-proof, given all the challenges that the Minister has also identified when it comes to the labour market. There could be a lot of that. I would like to take an integral look at this and not ask for something explicitly on one part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u380	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his reply and for today's good debate. For the second term, I have a few points. First of all, I would like to come back to the ic capacity. In the letter on the long-term approach of 13 June last, page 21 states that the VWS Minister will discuss with the parties to agree on the financing of the maintenance of ic scaling and availability in 2023. Now, of course, what will happen next? This scaling-up and availability of ic-capacity must remain available even after 2023, so we ask each motion to ensure this structuralally and to bet on a further increase. That is why we are tabling the next motion. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet does not intend to increase its ic capacity in a structural manner;]] [[noting that in Belgium the ic capacity is twice as high as in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas too limited ic capacity in previous corona waves for the Cabinet was one of the main reasons for adopting collective action;]] [[Whereas the long-term approach requires a higher ic capacity in order to avoid the re-use of collective measures;]] [[Whereas, in view of the long-term perspective, time and space can be made available to specialise more staff in intensive care and more capacity can be sought in ic-bed hospitals;]] [[calls on the cabinet to maintain the existing ic capacity and to increase structuralally from now on, both in terms of staffing, equipment and equipment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-AR]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u382	Mr. Chairman. In the same letter on the long-term approach, on page 37, I quote: "The cabinet will continue to talk with sectors in the near future to see if the corona access card can be a desirable measure in certain circumstances. As explained in paragraph 5, some sector plans indicate that the use of the Corona Access Card may be a workable measure in exceptional situations. Following this, it will be considered whether an additional legal circle could be created for this purpose." In short, the ctb is once again explicitly on the table in the long-term approach, and that is why we are putting forward a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u383	Perhaps I will first give Mr Karakus a chance to ask another question about the previous motion. Is that okay with you? That's the case. Mr. Karakus, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u384	Just for the clarity of increasing capacity. The question is what capacity Mr Van Hattem sees for himself. I get that he says "uplift," but how high is that capacity? I'd like to be able to understand that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u385	There are two elements in it. Like I said, that's keeping what's in there right now. That capacity has now been temporarily increased, but at least we have to hold on to it. The second element is a structural increase. There must therefore be additional structural capacity. I indicated in my speech that, as far as I am concerned, this should be a doubling, as in Belgium. You could also look at a European average. Maybe that's a good starting point, too. But at least steps will have to be taken. How exactly are these steps taken? I challenge the Minister to take further steps on this point in the budget. I will not fill it out yet, but the fact is that it is a question of conservation and structural expansion. That is actually the key message I would like to give the Minister with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u386	I'm curious to hear the Minister's response later. So you're assuming a doubling.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u387	When we look at the situation with our neighbours in Belgium, we see that there is a double capacity. That could be an endeavor. But it can also be an average of European countries. That would be a good goal, too. In any case, a significant step must be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u388	I find it a little difficult to say anything about this. In any case, an article was published in Medical Contact on 16 June in which there is a detailed description of why 1,150 ic-beds are enough in the Netherlands. Perhaps that's good information for Mr. Van Hattem to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u389	As I said in the first term: we get the situation that more is needed because of exponential growth of the virus. We just have to stay ahead of situations like this. Then such a conclusion can be drawn in Medical Contact... We also heard the Minister making a similar calculation earlier. But if we are going to run into the limits of ic capacity again, and we are going to release all kinds of measures on society that are freedom-limiting and fundamental rights-absorbering, then I would prefer to focus structuralally, and especially in the long term, on that extra ic capacity. Because for any health crisis it is simply important to be able to fill in. It really shouldn't be the case that people sit there all day playing thumbs. However, we need to train people for this specialization, so that they can be used for that. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u390	In any case, I think it is a gain from the debate that the PVV also sees that there will be exponential growth. It wasn't before. I do have a question about that. You're pleading for a doubling. If you have an R factor of 1.5 and a cycle time of three and a half days, that means that you are already full after one week compared to the current situation. Then why not quadruple, or magnification, or sheer increase? If you really understand what's exponential, then I think your motion is a huge understatement. And that's fake security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u391	Let me be clear: I did not argue that there would be exponential growth. I have heard the Minister say about the debate on the corona admission certificate that this could be the case. So the Minister himself comes up with such an explanation of the risk of exponential growth. If the minister himself comes up with a story of exponential growth, then you have to set up your ic-capacity there too. This is in order to prevent these problems from arising and to impose on society all kinds of measures that we are not waiting for. Then it's just important to invest in hospital care. But I would like to make it very clear that it is not just a question of ic capacity. It is also a question of rebuilding the whole of the concern. That is why we are coming up with the next motion, the motion'reconstructing care'. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is committed to regionalising covid care, including by treating patients with oxygen at home;]] [[noting that, in addition to adequate ic-care, regular care is also essential in the event of a health crisis;]] [[Whereas the regionalisation of covid care places greater pressure on the shoulders of general practitioners, community care, home care and care;]] [[Whereas this part of the healthcare sector is already overburdened and underpaid;]] [[Whereas it is becoming increasingly difficult to maintain care workers;]] [[Whereas regular hospital capacity is also under pressure;]] [[Whereas investing in regular care is necessary in order to have the basis in order for a health crisis of any kind;]] [[calls on the Cabinet, in view of the long-term approach, to put the basics of regular healthcare in order by investing structuralally in regular hospital capacity, general care, community care, home care and household care, in both people and salaries and in reducing administrative burdens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-AS]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u392	Then, Mr President, I have a next motion following the debate, a motion 'departure reports and list of participants of discussions with experts'. The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in preparation for the first instalment of the amendment of the Public Health Act (Wpg), the Minister held discussions with experts;]] [[noting that, according to the written answers to questions from the First Chamber, the Minister is not prepared to make public reports of discussions with experts and participant lists;]] [[Whereas, in the light of Article 68 of the Constitution, the Minister has an obligation to inform the members of both Chambers of the States General;]] [[Whereas the Minister does share the results of the discussions with the experts and wishes to derive authority from them for the legislative proposals, but does not, on request, provide further reports and lists of participants;]] [[Whereas Members of Parliament should be able to carefully assess the expertise of the Minister in the handling of legislation in support of a legislative proposal;]] [[Whereas, in view of the Open Government Act, transparency and verifiable information should be the starting point;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to provide the members of the States General with the reports and participant lists of the discussions with the experts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-AT]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u393	Then, chairman, one more motion, the motion "no corona admission permit." The: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Bezaan, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet retables the option of using the corona access card (ctb) in discussions with sectors;]] [[noting that, with the expiry of the Twm, there is no legal basis for the deployment of the ctb;]] [[noting that research carried out by TU Delft has shown that the 2G policy linked to Ctb is not effective in preventing infections;]] [[Whereas it is not up to economic sectors to determine whether the use of a CCP is effective, proportionate and socially acceptable;]] [[Whereas, as a collective freedom-limiting measure, the Ctb constitutes an infringement of the fundamental rights of citizens;]] [[Whereas, in view of the research carried out by TU Delft, the 2G policy linked to the Ctb is not effective in preventing contamination and therefore offers, in particular, false safety;]] [[Whereas the use of a non-effective means of intervention on the fundamental rights of citizens is not proportionate;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to abandon a new legal basis for the corona ticket and not to submit this option as an option to the economic sectors;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-AU]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u394	In the motion that has just been read, I had originally included a statement on the Wpg, which is in the consultation phase. I have deleted that observation because it is not currently being discussed in the light of the debate. Finally, there are a few outstanding questions. I had asked for the legally binding nature of the WTO Convention and for the strengthening of primary health systems in my own country. I asked about the OMT minutes. Finally, with regard to ventilation, I asked about the principles of the Building Decision. But what about the enforcement of that? We have not heard the Minister about this. So far, Chairman, in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u395	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mr Janssen, on behalf of the SP and also on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u396	Thank you, Mr President. It is a very special debate. I also sympathized with the Minister, because I had said in my contribution that I did not intend to repeat the debate in the House of Representatives a few weeks ago, but I could not quite avoid the impression that this was still happening a bit. Anyway, everyone's talking about their own questions. It's no different. Mr. Chairman. I have heard one commitment from the Minister for Justice and Security. She said: I'm not gonna wait for recommendations to get started; if there's anything and if I can pick it up, I'm gonna get right on it. I liked to hear that. I have also heard this from this Minister, although the document already received from the OVV, the second study, does not yet contain any recommendations. But the experience is that if you get the text, you can distil something out of it in the sense of: gosh, could you possibly not follow a recommendation? Apart from the usual recommendations that are still going to come up with the final report, it might be good to look at them again with that look to see if there is anything to distil. Mr. Chairman. The Minister also mentioned the four scenarios, from light to heavy. I think I heard him say that when the sector plans come in, it will all be looked at and that it should actually be ready by September. Then it should be divided into those four scenarios to see what the sector plans are doing, what needs to be done on top of that and whether that is going to work. I hope I understood him correctly, but he might be able to confirm that. I understand that in September we will know what is going on in each of the scenarios, which will clarify who is going to do what and when someone's competence in the sector will cease, because it turns out that it is not enough and that we need to do something about it. I hope I understood correctly, but that's what I like to hear. Mr. Chairman. Teachers are not given priority when vaccinating. I immediately received messages from someone who said: well, then the minister himself should go through the halls during a school break and see what happens when a few hundred screaming teenagers walk down the hallway that do not comply with the corona rules, as we have agreed, and if you walk through them unprotected or insufficiently protected. This is a real concern for the people in education, for the teachers. The Minister says 'I do not know what has been agreed by my colleagues in the sector', but this is the minister who also says'schools remain open'. Then the question is: how? If the Minister says he's not about it, but his colleagues are, it's kind of like sitting on a terrace, waiting a long time to order something, someone's finally coming in and saying: sorry, this is my colleague's neighborhood; he'll be with you in a minute, so you can wait even longer. That doesn't feel right; let me put it this way. It certainly doesn't feel right when a minister who is responsible for the outcome says "this is going to happen, but I'm not interfering with exactly how it happens," just to put it bluntly. The Minister did not say that, but that is my interpretation. I think that should get a little closer if we want it to go well. In any case, there are teachers who are very worried. What we don't want is for teachers to call in sick preventively because they think, "I'm not going to risk it." That was also my question to the Minister, perhaps to bring that to the attention of his colleague. What agreements are being made now? People feel pressured by peer pressure to stay out of their homes, while they feel extremely unsafe. Then maybe you get sick messages and things like that, when you don't have to. "Make it negotiable at work," doesn't always work. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has mentioned that he wants to be able to activate the Corona app. I wonder how many people haven't thrown that Corona app off their phone yet, but I'm afraid it's a very large part... This room may not be entirely representative, I'll just say to the colleagues who say: I still have it. I'm afraid a lot of people have said: that thing can get off, because it only costs electricity, so it can go away. So we have to start over. Mr. Chairman. Then there is parliamentary involvement. The minister tells us how the circuit will run. I know that, but I would advise the Minister, without going into details, to look very carefully at what has happened in the last two years, since October 2020. Otherwise, the Minister will be organising his own disappointment here. We wouldn't want that either. We're in the back. That also means that it can't go much further than saying no if we don't want to. We do not want that for the Minister, so it is better to take that into account at the front. Then it is good to give a very good account in advance of what this Chamber would like. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the following must have been a highlight for the Minister. When I walked back from the central station to the center last week, I saw hundreds, perhaps thousands of people chanting at the Binnenhof "we want to see Kuipers!" The balcony was still missing, but for the minister it was probably one of the highlights of the period he was going through. However, the message was extremely serious and I hope that the Minister will pay serious attention to it. I thank the Minister and the Minister for JenV for the answers they have given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u397	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Taking responsibility as a government and giving trust to society: between these two notions, a good corona approach moves in the longer term. This means at least that the conditions for taking responsibility by society must be in order. I would like to thank the Minister for the explanation he has given. It remains an exciting question whether the Empire can provide all the parties involved with sufficiently clear frameworks. On request, the Minister devoted many words to communication and combating polarisation. In this light, I thought it was a relief to hear how sober the Minister spoke, for example, about vaccination and what this does and does not yield. He stressed that vaccination or not is about personal freedom. This has not always been adequately communicated in the past in my view, so that certain groups who deliberately did not vaccinate have been placed as scapegoats who would keep the epidemic going and would not care about their neighbor. That was wrong, and it also caused pain. Mr. Chairman. A lot has also been said about increasing the supply of care; rightly so. However, I do not think that the Minister's offer of care would be inexcusable. Can we ultimately avoid managing and perhaps tempering the expectations of healthcare seekers as well? We are in a rapidly ageing society. The vulnerability to epidemics will therefore only increase. That'll take its toll on health. How do we prepare our society for that, perhaps mentally? Mr. Chairman. We are also as First Chamber in anticipation of the adaptation of the Wpg. So far, we can only take note of the version given in internet consulation. That's a concept. That's how I want to look at it right now. But my first impression was that a substantial part of the Temporary Law measures is being made permanent, and that does not just calm down. To be continued. Finally. I found it positive that the Minister of Justice explicitly took account of the fact that she is also Minister of Honor. If SGP, which is represented today for exactly 100 years in the Lower House and has been there for a century, we will be alert to the fact that the constitutionally secured area of churches is also protected in future corona policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u399	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had already asked a number of questions during the interruptions and I hope that the Minister will come back to them in the second term, so I am not going to repeat them. I would like to repeat that I have already pointed out what Mr Janssen has said in the interruption, namely: look carefully at how this Chamber looks at what we think should be our say and our involvement. I would just like to say what: if it is, and the Minister has actually said so, that with this law, as it has now been consulted, all the powers are going to apply for an unlimited period of time to COVID-19, then I think that our Chamber will say 'we want the designation COVID-19 as A1 disease out, but we cannot amend anything, so we can only send the whole law back'. I think that was also a bit of Mr Janssen's message. I am pleased that the Minister has taken a good look at two points. One is the National Prevention Agreement. I understand from the Minister that after the summer things will become available on that point. My question to the Minister is whether it is possible, in what is being worked out in the National Prevention Agreement and in the report we are receiving, to pay extra attention to combating obesity, in the context of the prevention that we also need for these types of infectious diseases. After the summer there will also be a report on the zoonoses, so it will be a busy summer for the officials. I look forward to that with interest. Then I come to an important point. I heard the Minister say that these consultative bodies are not now regulated by law and that they do not really feel that they have any added value. It is good if, as a Chamber and also as a minister, we are aware of all the consultative bodies that are being set up and actually give advice if measures are to be taken to restrict fundamental rights in order to combat an epidemic. We have the Centre on Infection Disease Control, the RIVM, the Expert Board, the administrative coordination consultation, the regular OMT and the OMT-Z, for zoonoses. And now there is also the Social Impact Team, which has to keep an eye on social and economic vitality and continuity. Those are all bodies that are going to give advice on measures that intervene deeply in our social lives and which we have also seen sometimes lead to disruption. We can now also see that it may have led to an excess mortality, which is said to be: yes, it can only be explained by these measures. So that's very profound. I would like to remind the Minister that it is not a matter of: yes, we do not think it is necessary. If you do not properly regulate the structure of this advice, then you will keep the situation that will arise soon and that questions will arise about who is actually responsible and about independence, conflict of interests and all these matters. Normally, when you regulate an advisory body by law, you get questions about who the advisory body is set up, who is responsible for its composition and functioning, how independence, impartiality and expertise are regulated, in what situation there is a duty to seek advice and what is the role of the advisory body. For all kinds of advisory bodies, look at the Health Council or at the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, all of this is regulated by law. Here it is that we read something about a MIT being set up and Mrs. Sap becoming the quartermaster. Furthermore, we need to see how it comes about, who the experts are and what is being watched and so on. Our group does not consider that to be a good thing. I would like to ask the Minister once again to consider whether there should perhaps be a better arrangement in the second tranche for the whole consultative structure, which makes it clear that impartiality and conflict of interests are all part of the scheme. We have environmental law now. This came about in 1970, or in the 1970s. That has also gone one step at a time. This has been attacked by all of us, and this is also a step-by-step approach. I understand that the Minister cannot settle it all at once, but I would like to draw attention to the environmental impact assessment that was introduced at some point in environmental law as an instrument. This is a procedure whose main objective is to ensure that the environmental interest is fully taken into account in the preparation and adoption of decisions. Instead of environmental interest, you can also fill in "public health interest" and "social interest" and so on. This objective is achieved by systematically, transparently and objectively describing in the so-called EIA procedure the environmental impact of the initiative or activity and its real alternatives in the so-called Environmental Impact Assessment and describing measures to prevent or mitigate negative impacts. That is exactly what I hope the Minister will ask all the consultative bodies that sit together. How good would it be for us to legally regulate some sort of impact assessment in this area? With this fine assignment for the Minister, I'd like to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u401	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I call Mr Karakus on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u402	Thank you, Mr President. In the end, it has become a broader covid debate. In preparation, you're gonna think about what points to take with you. Entering the width will be very difficult, because then you will be talking for two hours and of course you can't do that, can you? But at the end of the day, you make an assessment: well, if I estimate it that way, then that colleague is going to come up with a point, so is that fellow Member, and in the end we have passed all the points. That's what happened. Thank you to all colleagues for that. Thank you also to the Minister and the officials for their reply. I assume the Minister has agreed to send me a number of things by letter. He said yes, but I assume that can be understood as a commitment. Mr Van der Voort explicitly asks: is that a commitment? I didn't do that, but that's what I assumed. Mr. Chairman. What's left at the bottom of the line? I have not yet received an answer to the question about the effects that will arise later. Then we're talking about the physical and mental state of people. How do we deal with that? However, I have received an answer to the plans of the sectors. In July they arrive; in September they are processed. I have asked another question that I have not yet received an answer to. In the end, we've been through a crisis. We've learned from that now. We're gonna take action. We have been clear today whether we agree or not, I think. The question is: what is the effect of that? What are people going to notice for impact on the pre-crisis situation? I haven't gotten an answer to that yet. At the bottom of the line, they're going to look at that and compare it. For example, I asked if the waiting lists would be shorter. The answer is no. So, yes, why are we taking action? What measures should we take in our long-term vision to shorten those waiting lists? Because during the corona crisis, people were extremely affected by that. That's just an example. But the question is: what is people going to notice about the measures on the streets? The second point is the following. I also asked the question: what is the follow-up process? We discussed the long-term vision tonight. We have made a number of suggestions as a PvdA. The colleagues have done the same. What's the process like? When are we going to get concrete approaches back in this Chamber, where we can find something? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u403	Thank you, Mr. Karakus. I call Mr Meijer on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u404	Mr. Chairman. All the points we can talk about for a long time, but we shouldn't do that. We shouldn't do it to the minister at this time of day, and we shouldn't do it to ourselves. For my part, therefore, only a few observations and two short points. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, both from a great deal of expertise and from a great deal of commitment. I was pretty critical of my input. I am not saying that we are confident, but the Minister has shown a little more urgency in the cabinet approach. Thank you for that, but we will undoubtedly continue to follow him critically. The minister himself also gave two observations. One he shared with me: timing when we talk about topics like the Wpg. But as an observation he also gave the metalevel at which we should actually operate. We will soon reflect again on how we operate ourselves. At least I brought it. In return, it is, of course, a trap for the Minister that, when he comes to his own expertise, he does not always stay at that meta-level. Then there are the two points. The first is communication. I notice in the answer that it is a huge offer answer: we do this, we do that, we do that. It is only after interruption that it is said how it happened to the recipients. Next time, I would start the reasoning with the recipients: how do we achieve it and what are we going to do? Instead of the door-to-door magazines and the whole zipper I hear. Second. I do not always agree with Mr Nicolaï, but I think he has made a clear point that MIT needs to be more clearly positioned. I think it's a little floddy and I'm very worried. That is what I said in my first term. Then the agreement with Mr Nicolaï will cease, because let us not turn it into an environmental impact assessment structure at all. Just clarity about responsibilities and not too much bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u405	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u406	No, Mr. Chairman, just give me a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u407	I shall suspend the sitting until 10:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u408	The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the remaining questions. Mrs De Boer asked about the perseverance in dealing with zoonoses. I told you it wasn't necessary. How does this relate to the recommendations of the OVV? The question about zoonoses was basically that I have sufficient power of perseverance towards my colleague from LNV. I have indicated that public health is always leading and that we are taking decisions in the Cabinet and I do not need any additional powers to do so. The recommendations of the OVV see the perseverance force, or rather the direction, in addressing a pandemic towards other agencies, such as the GGD and hospitals. I will follow up on this, including through the establishment of the FVC and through the powers of direction in the care chain that I would like to give to a ROAZ chairman. Mr Van der Voort pointed out that it puzzles, for example if the GGD needs much more vaccination and testing capacity, but the FVC did not accept that. Who's gonna settle this conflict? First of all, let me say that the FVC will not be operational until the middle of 2023. I don't recognize the word "conflict" in this situation. If there were any conflict, I'd be the one to settle it. However, the FVC must assist in a more national and central direction than the more than twenty individual GGDs can do. Mr Verkerk asked if I am prepared to do a meta-analysis of society. It's very briefly summarized here, I have to grin when I read it like that. In the next long-term letter, I will discuss polarisation and the impact on society in more detail. I had already promised this to Mr Karakus. Mrs. Prins asked about the future-proofing of care. Among other things, with the implementation of the expert team's advice, I contribute to making the care more future-proof in the situation where corona remains. At the same time, this has been explicitly said, and Mrs Prins also asked about this issue, which is part of the discussion in the Integrated Healthcare Agreement, how, with the ever increasing demand and with the stable numbers of staff or the rising number of vacancies, we are still able to fill in the care. This requires care coordination: in the right place as soon as possible. This also requires parts, such as with the expert team covid, to expand and smartly deploy other types of capacity. I have set an example. But in the end, it will also ask for choices to be made. This will also be a broader social debate. It therefore also calls for appropriate care. I have just sent a framework for this to the Chamber. "Suitable care" is a very easy term, but when you think about exactly how to get there... It is, of course, about care that has real added value for a particular individual, also taking into account the commitment of first of all the people who can provide that care. This really calls for a discussion with professional associations and with patients' associations about what to do. This also requires, for example, a different role and a different commitment from the Healthcare Institute. The Healthcare Institute is now only looking, as in a lock, at new medications, but it must also play a role in the assessment of new or existing treatment methods. Are there new things we should or should not implement? And are there any existing things we might have to say goodbye to? So this is really a longer-term discussion, the big debate for the coming years on care. I'm sure your Chamber is very aware of that. Mrs Prins asked me, as an additional request, to ensure that all members of a sector also comply with the plans of their sector and that there is financial support if necessary. As indicated, the sectoral plans come from the sector itself. We expect sector organisations to ensure proper coordination with and support for their supporters. As I indicated, my colleague, the Minister of EZK, is also working hard on this. Especially in a phase of preventive measures, plans are not legally binding. So I cannot guarantee that every individual entrepreneur will always follow the measures set out in the plan. However, I would like to point out that I will continue to do so because the immediate interest lies primarily with that entrepreneur, with the employees, with any customers and visitors, etc., because it does something to reduce the number of infections in the local environment. So you could say very flatly that an entrepreneur, or any other party, who is late or late in completing certain basic preventive measures, is annoyingly at risk that this will lead to more staff failure and a larger number of people who will be out of work for a long time. I am also looking at Mrs De Boer, with whom I just had the discussion about post-covid and long-term complaints. So there is also a self-interest for all of us in our immediate surroundings. Of course, the cabinet is more likely to take compelling measures if plans are not followed. But that is not what sectors want, and that is not what the cabinet wants either. I am therefore confident that compliance, including in the debate and in the grassroots community, will be properly organised. Then Mr Van Hattem asked about strengthening the primary health system in his own country. Strengthening the health system means a commitment to prevention, to healthy living, to sufficient movement. It also means having a quality care system. Let me refer you back to the results of the expert team on the impact of the incorporation of corona care, but also to the discussion that I was just talking about following a question from Mrs.Prins. Mr Van Hattem also asked why the OMT reports remain confidential. Members of the OMT shall sit without the support of the supporters in the OMT. They must be able to say anything and feel free to discuss everything. The opinion, which becomes public, addresses all important considerations. Reports and minutes shall be confidential. They do not become public and are only visible to the members of the OMT itself. In the debate that I held with the House of Representatives at the end of May on this subject, I indicated that I would see if later disclosure, as in the MR minutes, could be discussed. I'll get back to you on that. Then Mr Van Hattem asked about the enforcement of building decisions. Requirements of the Building Decision are installation requirements. In the case of construction or re-destination, these will be checked. Then it's up to building managers to maintain it. In sectoral plans we ask for specific attention to be given to this. Mr Nicolaï asked if I could make obesity part of the Prevention Agreement. The answer is that this is already an integral part of the prevention approach. Mr Nicolaï also asked about the legal binding of the MIT structure. The advice needs to be properly arranged. That's what we're looking at. This has our attention and is part of the letter on the approach, which I promised by September. Mr Janssen asked: the sector plans come in and are divided into four scenarios; then the effectiveness of the sector plans is examined and what needs to be done on top of this. He hoped he understood that correctly. It is true that these sectoral plans are now coming in and being compared. They are also viewed with input from the RIVM. They are not divided into exactly one of the scenarios of the WRR. We are preparing for different scenarios, but to do exactly that, per sector plan per scenario, we are very rigid, whereas in practice the situation can probably be very different. Mr Karakus asked whether doctors with post-covid complaints were also covered by a regulation. Last week, Minister Helder announced a reconnaissance of the cabinet which will take place this summer to what support we can offer to healthcare workers who have had covid in the first wave and have been ill by post-covid for more than two years now. The question of demarcation is part of that reconnaissance. So the delineation question also concernszzp'ers. I can't anticipate the results. Mr Karakus asked about the effects that later became apparent. How do we deal with that? We've had a crisis. We've taken measures. What's the effect now? The measures taken over the last two years have put us through a crisis. Of course, I hope that we no longer need such measures and that everyone can live as much as possible without such measures. As far as long-term effects are concerned, it is indeed clear that they are large. I expect we will learn much more about it in the coming period. For example, just look at the impact of closing schools and giving digital education on our youth. The effect of individual measures, including on reducing the number of infections, cannot be indicated. We've always seen it in a total package. Finally, Mr Nicolaï had a number of questions concerning the first tranche of Wpg. They included the designation of covid and corona contamination in the bill as A1, so no switch on and off, the right to block the First Chamber and a switch. I have heard the comments and arguments on this very well. We are happy to take this into account in the further consideration of this law. For the time being, I would like to point out to the honourable Member, as I have done before, that this tranche has just been consulted. This is now going to the Council of State. We will process further input from the consultation and, of course, any input from the Council of State. Then it goes to the House of Commons. Hopefully it'll be here at some point. Then we'll have the debate about it. Finally, there was a question from Mr Van Hattem. How legally binding are the WTO's opinions? WHO opinions are non-binding opinions. We take these opinions and developments in other countries into account. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. First of all, motion AR on the structural increase of ic-capacity. My advice is: dissuade. Then there is the motion on the basis of order in the regular health care. There is also my advice: dissuade. Then publicise reports of expert session for the first tranche of Wpg. Also: dissuade. With regard to no legal basis for the Ctb also: advise against. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u410	I just want to make one thing right. I heard the Minister say that I had asked for the WTO opinions, but I asked for the legally binding nature of the WTO Treaty. The letter states that this is a legally binding treaty. That's different from those advices. My question was what the legal binding nature of the treaty would be. In view of the time, I would also like the Minister to return to this question in writing if the answer is not immediately available. Then on the motions. The Secretary of State has advised them against all four. I have already made it clear in the first and second periods that I think this is important. However, I do have one more question concerning the ic capacity. We can now see that the ic capacity is not being increased. Meanwhile, we are seeing the population growth of the Netherlands rise very rapidly. We're already at 17.7 million. There's just a few hundred thousand people added. The ic-capacity is not growing in this, while more people are coming. The same applies to care. I'm asking for more attention to be paid to the regular care capacity. Can the Minister indicate how he sees population growth in relation to the necessary care and ic capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u411	Sure. There is, of course, a combination of population growth, ageing, interventions and so on. At the same time, the continuous innovation in healthcare also plays, in which you try to do many interventions less invasive, for example. If I may just mention one example of the past many years, it is the significant change in all kinds of heart surgery, which reduced the final intake of patients after a heart procedure on the ic. So it's a continuous movement. We'll judge it. My recommendation for this motion is not to structurally increase ic capacity for reasons already mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u412	Firstly, my appeal to the Minister to review Parliament's involvement and control over the last two years, so as to prevent the Minister from organising his own disappointment when we are presented here at the last stage. Mr Nicolaï pointed this out again later. I didn't hear the Minister say that anymore, but I sincerely hope he will. My second question is about the scenarios, because I don't quite get it yet. If the sector plans are in place, it must be clear to each of the scenarios to what extent the sector plans can make a certain contribution in these scenarios and where to switch to other measures? That was actually my question. My question was not: make four bar diagrams with each sector plan precisely arranged. However, it must be clear in each of the four scenarios where the operation of the sector plans is simply stalling and where more needs to be done. My question was whether this would be taken into account in the scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u413	With regard to the various scenarios, you should imagine that one of the factors is the degree of sickness. I can hypothetically fill it out. That's all I can do, because I can't do it now. Suppose at some point we are dealing with a variant where the primary burden of disease is actually very limited in the existing vaccination and so on, but at the same time the number of people who suffer from high infections is very high. Then you have a different bet of your scenarios. You are then very focused on just preventing local infections in your own environment. You might then be forced to do all kinds of protective things in your own environment, while the overalls on the government side in a scenario are actually very limited and we say in terms of a WRR scenario, so to speak, a continuous battle that there is not so much going on yet. There are differences in this respect. What can be an explicit question, then, is that I am getting closer to the answer you are looking for, I think it is whether we can ask for different sizes of scaling up of their local measures from sectors. Then the answer to the sector plans I have already seen is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u414	I'm not asking for myself so much. By the way, that last one wasn't what I asked. I am not asking for an answer for myself, but for predictability. One of the things that we see has caused a great deal of unrest in society was unpredictability and being attacked by sudden measures. That is why the sectoral plans are important. What can you expect from the sector until a certain moment and what just doesn't work anymore? I understand that it is not black and white and I can follow the Minister very well, but because of the clarity that is also asked from the sectors because they do not want to be robbed, it is good to try to indicate something of a direction. There are four scenarios from "light" to "serious." What do you expect from the sectors themselves in the "serious" scenario? Or do you say they can still be helpful, but in fact most of them come from the other side, namely through measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u415	Thank you for this further explanation. In terms of prevention of the number of infections, it is first of all just sensible for an individual batch, whether one has a shop, a company or an office, to take measures to reduce the number of infections in one's own environment as much as possible. This also reduces the loss of staff, colleagues, students and customers. We will do that with an instrument that shows where we are now. I have already said something about a thermometer and a development of the RIVM. I have not yet been able to give a precise answer, because we are still in agreement on this. Where are we now and where is the development going in the coming period? If it were so that the number of infections would then become very high, you always hope that you stay away from that moment, there may come a time when as a government you would find yourself in a strict degree of a lockdown. I do not foresee it at all in the coming period, for the sake of clarity, but it could be. If this happens, a lot of local measures will lapse, for example because shops or education are closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u416	In the letter of 13 June on long-term policy, I read the following: until the MIT is formally established,... and so on. I am pleased to read that the MIT is in any case formally established. Who's gonna do that? How's that gonna happen? And can we now also assume that there will be some kind of fixed advisory structure with OMT and MIT? How was that structure put together? Can the Minister promise our group, or 'the Chamber', that there will be a piece of it, so that we are all clear where the responsibilities lie and how that is arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u417	Yes, I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u418	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-07-05-eerstekamer-14.u419	I come to the end of the debate. I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled. Then we have arrived at the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members, both ministers and the staff who made this meeting possible, and I wish you all well at home.
