ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u1	The debate is now on the two-minute debate Final report on the examination of the application of Article 13b of the Opium Act. We have three speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The closure of a house is an extremely important means. That's only possible if there's really something going on. If there is a lot of dealing in a home, if there is a serious nuisance for the neighborhood or if, for example, users run down the door, of course, then you do. That was the original intention of the legislator, but in practice it really is quite different. That is also apparent from the report on research, the evaluation. This leads to distressing situations, even so poignant that the measure is no longer proportionate to the alleged infringement in many cases. There are house expulsions of families with children for minimal amounts found, without warning and so on. It is a local consideration, but I do not think it is easy for us to get rid of it if we find that it is lacking in customisation and that the law is not being used as we intended it to be. Of course, we can abolish the law. We can change the law, but at least we have to make sure that something changes in the short term. That is why I am tabling the next motion together with Mr Sneller of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it follows from the case law and evaluation of Article 13b of the Opium Act ("Wet Damocles') that more tailor-made arrangements should be provided for the application of property and housing closure powers;]] [[Whereas this tailor-made approach calls in any case for the explicit consideration of the consequences for those concerned (in particular for minors) and the amount of drugs before the closure of a property;]] [[Whereas, in order to ensure proportionality of closure as a sanction, the expected effectiveness of less far-reaching measures should also be explicitly weighed and a warning (if necessary as a penalty) should almost always be given for closure;]] [[Whereas the legislator has established the power of closure as an ultimatum remedium, but in practice closures are often not used or are used as an ultimatum remedium in the fight against drug trafficking;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the extent to which municipalities apply customization varies considerably and the lack of a national framework for the management of the closure power;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a national framework for municipalities to adopt a more uniform policy on the power to close premises pursuant to Article 13b of the Opium Act in line with the above principles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Sneller.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34763-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u3	An interesting argument, Mr. Van Nispen. I also thought: let me also advertise in this context the security plan that the SP launched a few weeks ago. One of the issues here is the safety of vulnerable neighbourhoods. Now this is an excellent way for a mayor to deal with the nuisance at drug houses that no one wants to live next door to, no one wants to have on the street, so that he can make sure the neighborhood is safe. How does this proposal relate to your own plan, in which you argue for ensuring safety in vulnerable neighbourhoods?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u4	Thank you so much for advertising the SP plan. I recommend it to everyone. That is indeed an excellent plan, in which we call for safe neighbourhoods. But Mrs Michon also knows that example of that 43-year-old autistic man who had 5 grams in his home. That wasn't a drug house. Without warning, his apartment was closed and that man was on the street. No one's been helped, especially the neighborhood. That's not gonna do him any good. Families with children come to the streets, they have to leave their homes, where there is no deal at all, where there is no nuisance at all. Mrs Michon is basically right that this Law Damocles can be good and that, if properly applied, it can remove nuisances in neighbourhoods, but in many situations it goes wrong in implementation. That is what we are trying to put our finger on. I think Mrs Michon actually knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u5	Now Mr Van Nispen is going to cite casuistic why this law is not good, while the essence of the law is that it is custom-made and proportionate. That can also be reviewed by the judge. If the mayor goes too far in that, the judge's gonna kick his ass. So I would really ask Mr Van Nispen to have this local primate celebrated here and not turn his back on such an important instrument for the mayor through the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u6	I'm really surprised, because this is not exactly what we're doing here. We're not gonna kill that drug. There is an evaluation, perhaps Mrs Michon, who did not read it, which states that it does not lead to customisation, that it is too often not applied proportionally. We have had extensive written consultations on this. The minister actually says she leaves it all local. Apparently that's a bit of the VVD's point of view. If you don't bring in caseism, then you're blind to what happens in practice. I think that's the dumbest thing we can do. That's exactly what we have to do. Just make sure you're customized. If we are not allowed to interfere with a national law here in the national parliament, it is Article 13b of the Opium Act, then I do not know what we are doing here. We've learned something from, among other things, the premium affair, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u7	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Michon-Derkzen from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say that I find it uncomfortable that Mr Van Nispen refers here to the premium affair. That is of a completely different order from what we are talking about here. I say here that I think you should allow mayors to do that customization and that the Chamber has a reluctant role to play. I am then accused that I have no regard for the supplemental affair. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. Mr. Chairman. Nobody wants to live in a street where there's a drug house. You certainly don't want your neighbor in his house producing drugs and dealing. To address this, there is article 13b of the Opium Act. In this Law Damocles, customization and proportionality are very important. The Damocles Act has proved to be an effective instrument for local administrators, for mayors. They just need that badly. I would like to stress once again that this is about customization and proportionality. That's what I just said. Mr. Chairman. We cannot deal with organized drug crime alone with criminal law. Administrative resources are necessary, and we have them. You can see that in the Bibob Act, for example, which is becoming more effective. As far as I am concerned, the legislative proposal must be dealt with in plenary as soon as possible. But is it gonna take more? How do we help the mayors from this house who are looking at this drug crime day in, day out? I therefore have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas administrative instruments such as the Damocles Act and the Bibob Act make an important contribution to the fight against undermining crime;]] [[Whereas the application of administrative instruments such as Article 13b of the Opium Act always requires tailor-made and proportionate deployment;]] [[Whereas it is up to mayors themselves to assess whether a situation in their municipality requires them to use administrative instruments;]] [[Whereas the WODC investigation into the Damocles Act concludes that the application of the jurisdiction in Article 13b of the Opium Act is effective in ending the offence and preventing recurrence;]] [[calls on the Government to act in consultation with the Dutch Society of Mayors (NGB) to examine whether the administrative instruments of mayors are still sufficient to deal with organised crime, and to inform the Court of Justice of this by May at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Michon-Derkzen and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34763-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u9	"I find it amazing that we make people homeless, but actually have no idea if that helps." This is what Professor Vols of the University of Groningen, who carried out the evaluation, said this weekend at RTV Noord. That is why I have the next motion, together with colleague Van Nispen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the evaluation of Article 13b of the Opium Act ("Wet Damocles') concludes that little is known about the effects of the application of the power to close premises/dwellings;]] [[Considering that this uncertainty relates to the impact on residents of the closed property, residents, neighbourhoods, landlords and entrepreneurs, but also that there is only a limited understanding of the extent to which the power to close contributes to the effective restoration of public order and the fight against drug crime;]] [[Whereas this information is necessary in order to make a sound assessment of the effectiveness and effectiveness of the competence under Article 13b of the Opium Act;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop, in the short term, a plan of action with municipalities and housing corporations on how to adequately monitor the effects of the Damocles Act;]] [[invites the Government also to report to the Court on the effectiveness of this law one year after transmission of this plan of approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller and Mr Van Nispen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34763-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u10	I would just like to briefly reflect on the discussion about the premium affair. It is precisely the Council of State working group on legal reflection that looked at the application of Article 13b of the Opium Act and then asked the Advocate General of the Council of State for information. Last week there was a ruling in those cases, precisely in order to make the proportionality test fuller. I am not going to meditate between the two of you, but last week's statements by the Council of State are certainly taking a new turn. They are indeed motivated by the experience and marginal scrutiny by the administrative judge in connection with the supplementing affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u11	But we'll talk about that affair some other time. Could it be very brief, Mrs. Michon?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u12	Yeah, one final remark. I am also very pleased with the turn-off that the Council of State has taken. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But the difference is that in this case about the Wet Damocles the residents are the victims. The neighbors from the place where drugs are being dealt are the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u13	Okay. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u14	As far as I'm concerned, that's the big difference from the supplementing affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u15	Mrs. Michon's missing a few victims. They live on a campsite now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u16	So far. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest I move straight to the motions. We still have a long afternoon and this was a clear debate with clear motions. The motion in part No. 17 from the SP, I'm going to dissuade it. Article 13b of the Opium Act refers to a power of the mayor and thus the mayor deals with municipal policy. So we cannot go into it from here. For the mayor, the application of Article 13b of the Opium Act always remains a balance between, on the one hand, the importance of stopping drug offences and preventing repetition and, on the other hand, the impact on those involved. That was just mentioned in the debate between us. It may be that a drug offence is so serious that a warning or a penalty charge is not enough and that immediate closure is required. The mayor will have to motivate that in the decision. Mr. Chairman. The recent ruling of the Council of State shows that administrative judges will carry out the proportionality test more decisively. The opinion of the State Councils last July gave us some good pointers, and my predecessor also spoke to the mayors about this. The point of attention is therefore clear and has also been discussed. As you can see from the policy response, a roadmap for the application of Article 13b of the Opium Act has already been drawn up by the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security. Following the recommendations of the WODC study and in line with the policy response, it is also modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u18	A question from Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u19	Fortunately, the Minister takes a slightly different tone from the spokesperson of the VVD Group. From the fact that the judges seem to think it is necessary to pursue a stricter course, can we conclude that something did not go well? If there was no problem, if there was good customization and if it all happened proportionally, in accordance with the original intention of the legislator, then the judge would not have to correct this and draw up that new line. I regret that the Minister is not recommending the motion, because we are actually going to sit back until the local government is corrected by the judge in all these cases. I say: amend the law and clearly state what the legislator's intention is or, and with this motion we are actually going one step less, come up with a clear framework to show how we, as legislators, intended that law. Come with more customization, more proportionality and warn in cases where it is possible. If there's a real deal and there's a nuisance, then of course you have to close. There's no misunderstanding about that. But in all the other cases, a warning is more appropriate. Such a framework could provide for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u20	In this way, I think we share those good examples and give them a form of framework, but we mean differently from Mr Van Nispen. I think that's extremely important. I've seen the local practice in my former work. I know that a lot of customisation is being applied locally and in a very good way. We haven't really talked about how, for example, care has been linked to the whole chain. Perhaps you have discussed this with my predecessor in the debate. It's not often that a mayor just says, "I'm closing now." It's good to learn what the customization looks like, but let's not color it all in from here. I hope that Mr Van Nispen will at least see with this answer that we are taking these steps in a different way. I would advise against this motion, in the form in which it was drafted, but I think we are looking for similar elements. The second motion, the motion in part No. 18, it's VVD. It invites the government to consult with the Dutch Society of Mayors to examine whether the administrative instruments of mayors are still sufficient to deal with organised crime, and to inform the Court of Justice of this by May at the latest. I will. So that's judgment room. Then I have one more motion from Mr Sneller and Mr Van Nispen, on part No. 19. They ask the government, together with municipalities and housing corporations, to draw up a plan of action on how to adequately monitor the effects of this law, and to report to the Chamber one year after transmission of this plan of approach on the effectiveness of this law. This motion I give judgment Chamber. I don't think I have much to explain about that anymore; I just have to get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u21	Very good! So much for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-02-08-tweedekamer-24.u22	We'll vote on the motions on Tuesday. I shall suspend for one moment and then continue the debate on the suicide of an undercover agent.
