ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. The next item is the legislative procedure for amending the Code of Criminal Law in connection with the increase in the legal penalty limit for manslaughter. I would like to welcome the people who are following the debate at a distance, as well as the people in the Chamber, the MPs and the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u2	Twelve speakers have signed up. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Ellian, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the increase in the legal penalty limit for manslaughter. When you are a Member of Parliament discussing a bill that you consider important, you often start a bit euphoric or triumphant. I am not doing that today, because the crime we are talking about is one of the most serious crimes known to our Code of Criminal Law. So I am not going to say how beautiful or how happy it is that this bill is now before us. I confine myself to saying that it is important that we can finally talk about this today. Mr. Chairman. Manslaughter and murder are the most serious forms of the most irreversible degradation of the highest legal order, namely human life. However, the reality is that manslaughter and murder are quite different. This goes back to a judgment of the Supreme Court of 2012 and a subsequent judgment of 2013. It is particularly important that the result of manslaughter and murder is the same, namely that someone is killed intentionally, but that the legal difference has become quite large. Before 2012, there had to be enough opportunity for murder to have thought. There is sufficient opportunity for calm reflection, it is called in the case law. However, since 2012, there has been an increased obligation to state reasons: the courts must be able to determine from the evidence that someone has actually thought. Of course, that's in someone's head, so that's very hard to prove. This is unrelated to the fact that there is often an argument, that there is a violent movement of mind or drift. Mr. Chairman. From 2012 onwards, it can be seen that a higher sentence is imposed in the event of manslaughter. There are, of course, a lot of cases that would be classified as manslaughter after 2012, but before that as murder. Again, the result is the same: someone was deliberately killed. Mr. Chairman. It is also crazy if some of the offences have been listed in our Code of Criminal Law for which the maximum temporary penalty of 18 years applies. Think, for example, of human trafficking with the result of death, but also, for example, of a crime of sex leading to death. This also points to the fact that the maximum penalty for manslaughter for manslaughter has been in force for 15 years now. The level of the criminal threat should reflect the seriousness of the crime. That is also a clear signal to the judge as to what the legislator's wish is and how serious the legislator sees the crime. It is also remarkable that the original intention of our predecessors in 1886 was that the difference between manslaughter and murder would be five years. There's been a difference. It's a good thing we're bringing that difference back to five years today. To sum up, an important gap that now exists between manslaughter and murder is closed. The social view of these most serious crimes has also changed, which is also reflected in the fact that judges have started to punish higher. And the threat of punishment should reflect the seriousness of the crime. As far as the VVD is concerned, this penalty threat goes from 15 years to 25 years. Mr. Chairman. I said I'd be short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u4	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Ellian. Then we have arrived at Mr Markuszower, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My heartfelt congratulations to Mrs Mutluer of the PvdA for her maiden speech. I wish her every success in the House of Representatives. I hope I can interrupt her in the future. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill raising legal penalty maximum manslaughter, an increase in the penalty for manslaughter. That sounds nice, that sounds big. But in a country where a large part of the judges is Sigrid Kaagadept and the other part worships the messiah Clover, we have no use for higher maximum punishments. For that crazy, sometimes even corrupt, for example, in the Wilders case, but also in the supplemental affair, overly soft left-wing goat woollensock judges hardly ever punish high. On the basis of the current law, they can send murderers convicted of manslaughter to prison for 15 years. But the average sentence these crazy judges impose on this life crime is under seven years. Ruthless perps get away with everything in the Netherlands. Take for example the status holder O., who stabbed a 16-year-old girl in Montfoort in January 2021. She fell off her bike and landed on the ground, after which O. hit her three more times powerfully in her back. The guy was stabbing her spinal cord. The girl suffered a double collapse, massive bleeding, fractures, a ruptured kidney and a tear in her diaphragm. Then he threatened three other people with a knife. The judge didn't impose a year, not a month, no, no, no punishment at all. Although this was an attempt at manslaughter or murder, it is a good example of a low sentence on the part of the judge, which is not a punishment. Whoever got away without punishment was the Sudanese status holder Ayoub Abdallah Y., a gruesome killer who stabbed 18-year-old Rik van de Rakt in Oss out of nowhere in April 2020. Here again, the judge did not impose a custodial sentence, not even a day, for a murder. It's too idiotic for words. You're not gonna come up with it. And the only time the judges impose a penalty is the VVD, the party that has ensured that life is no longer life in the Netherlands. A few years ago, the VVD made a knee-down for that horrible ECHR, a court that said there wasn't enough scope for release for life sentences. That is why life was abolished throughout the Netherlands. The same VVD also pardoned a Turkish serial killer who shot six people, including a 12-year-old girl and her mother, in a café in Delft in 1983. It was also the VVD that closed 23 prisons in recent years, of which 4 were not so long ago, in 2018. It was the VVD that cut out prison staff, so there is hardly room for prisoners in the Netherlands. As a judge, you can't actually punish him, because there's no place at all. In no time there was a cell shortage. It is the VVD that lets nearly ten thousand prisoners, who still have to serve a prison sentence, walk freely every year. Among these are rapists, but also murderers and child molesters. According to the judge, they're supposed to be in jail, but the VVD doesn't track them down or pick them up. It is the VVD that has flooded the country in recent years with non-Western foreign invaders who have come here and made our country significantly more unsafe. It is precisely this VVD that is coming up today with a proposal that requires us all to believe that we are going to be punished more severely. The maximum sentence on manslaughter is 25 years. But as I have just said, judges have been in prison for 15 years for manslaughter, but that rarely happens. And that while D66 judges believe that murder and premeditation are becoming more and more difficult to prove. Mr Ellian just said something about that. As a result, murderers in the Netherlands can hardly ever receive maximum penalties. The average sentence for manslaughter in 2021 was only six years. I just took the average of seven years, but that's the average of the last two, three years. That's true when you look at the case of American student Sarah Papenheim. She was killed by the murderer Joël S at the end of 2018 with 27 stab wounds. He only got a six-year punk sentence from a weak judge. The judge could also impose 15 years in prison, but it only became six. Sarah's mother was, of course, furious about the verdict. She said, "This isn't justice." And rightly so, because the next of kin are in prison for life and this criminal, this killer, is gonna go back to prison after a few years. As long as we have ill-functioning judges in the Netherlands, who are the most horrible, scary criminals in the Netherlands after a few miserable years on our society and can't get rid of them, and as long as we can't just elect those judges and prosecutors as people every four years, we don't need maximum punishment at all. As long as those naive sitting and standing magistrate, mainly D66'ers, PvdA'ers and GroenLinks'ers, love the perpetrator more than the victim, who must hate the Netherlands deeply and therefore refuse to really protect the Netherlands from the most dangerous criminals, we must of course introduce very high minimum penalties. In addition, the PVV believes that these criminals should never receive a penalty discount and should never be rewarded with a two-year penalty discount because they would have behaved well in prison. Good behavior should be the norm. I shall also table an amendment on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. Then we arrived at Mrs Multluer's maiden speech. You know the use: no interruptions. You will have to postpone it until next time. I will suspend briefly after the maiden speech, so that she can receive the congratulations. Mrs Mutluer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two months ago, 55 days to be exact, I was sworn into this house. How special that was, it really hit me when I walked out of the hall. I saw my parents coming down the stairs of the House of Representatives to congratulate me: my father of 80, badly on his feet, who did not dare to embrace me because of the corona measures, and my mother, who exuded a great deal of love. I felt proud. From my father who had to work in Turkey after elementary school to support his family. And my mother, who wasn't even allowed to go to school as a woman. That privilege was reserved for her brothers, my uncles. In the late 1960s they came to the Netherlands to work in the textile factory in Enschede. Later we moved to Zaanstad, so that they could give their children a better future and make use of the opportunities that the Netherlands offers. Opportunities they never had. I myself grew up in Poelenburg, in Zaandam, a neighborhood where all the problems that Holland knows come together and accumulate. A district where the average annual income is only €17,000. A district where one in three children live in poverty and almost half have an increased risk of an education deficit. A district where the language is not Dutch and almost half of the inhabitants cannot read or write properly. A neighborhood where dozens of homes are bought up and rented out for too much money to migrant workers, and where illegal habitation is widespread. A neighbourhood with problems that can also be found in large cities and where criminal networks and undermining crime are a very powerful and attractive perspective for vulnerable young people who feel outside society. A neighborhood where people are actually already 3-0 behind. A neighborhood where you see and feel inequality. As the middle of six daughters in a family with seven children, I entered this neighbourhood between two worlds and had to escape the cultural taboos to ensure my independence and freedom. I did that by studying, leaving home and getting good at my job. I did. Maybe that's why I'm a real social democrat. I know where I come from, I know what inequality is, I know how hard it can be to take the chances you get, I know that self-reliance doesn't mean you leave people to their fate, and I know what it's like to work a little harder as a woman. That makes me resilient and resilient. I will therefore call on all young women and girls to always stand up for themselves, to work hard and to become independent. That is also the sound you will hear from me as Justice and Security spokesperson: a very combative one. The fight against crime and violence is high on the agenda. My heart breaks when I read the news that another teenager is involved in a stabbing or a violent robbery. I have substitute shame and anger about the fact that carrying a weapon seems to be more normal than an exception. But besides a hard hand, there is also a need for a personalised approach in all relevant areas, such as living, work and education, so that it does not come to that. I know that the challenges we face as a society are not only solved by the use of repression. Repression without prevention is endless. That is why we need just as much a perspective for the young people who are in danger of slipping. In local politics, where I come from, I've come into contact with those young people. I am talking about young people from broken families, who were deeply in debt or in whom addiction problems played a role, with parents who barely make it. As a government, it is not only a task to clearly define the boundaries but also to provide guidance for these young people. This can be done by employing youth workers, by structuring their debts, by helping them finish school and find a job, by investing in the viability and security of neighbourhoods and by making young people resistant to the temptations of easy money, so that they do not end up as revolving door criminals. Unfortunately, these temptations will not be reduced in the short term by high energy prices, rising inflation and the overstretched housing market. I see it as my job to create a situation in which every young person can experience the feeling I experienced. The pride I saw in the eyes of my 80-year-old father and in my mother's during my installation in the Lower House, I will never forget. A sense of pride that the parents of the 16-year-old girl who was killed by her stalker can never make her feel again. Her name was Hümeyra. Her death led to this bill, which should balance the penalty of manslaughter and murder. That is what we have been committed to. The aim is to increase the maximum sentence for manslaughter, following the Van Wijngaarden motion, which my party co-signed. The main reason for this is, as far as I am concerned, that the penalty limit of 15 years should not be reduced in the most serious cases of manslaughter. Hümeyra's case showed that murder and manslaughter are sometimes very close together. Although we are in favour of an increase, I am not blind to the criticism that is being made. I want to hear from the Minister why she is going for 25 years instead of the 20 years that is also advised by practice. Let me be clear: I am well aware that only increasing the penalty limits will not solve the problems in our society by themselves. In addition to retaliation, the purpose of punishment must also be prevention. How does the Minister see this before this law? Will a higher penalty limit lead to higher penalties being imposed? Or should the upper penalty limit only provide for higher penalties in the most serious forms of manslaughter? As far as I'm concerned, the latter applies. Is that what the Minister is talking to the D.A. about? Finally, Mr President. Stalking remains an important issue that needs a good approach. I hope the Minister has ideas about how she intends to deal with this, otherwise we will be happy to discuss it with her at another time. With that, I'll finish and come to the end of my maiden speech. Violence, stalking and crime must all be punished. But even more so for me, precisely because I speak from experience, you must prevent it from coming to this. It starts with young people. At their house, at school, in the neighborhoods. We will have to invest in them and in their environment, and I will always support that in a very combative way. To Mr. Markuszower, I would say, I look forward to your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u8	Thank you, Mrs Mutluer. Thank you also for the passionate and combative way in which you expressed this; it was inspiring. Congratulations again. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u9	I will resume the meeting after this brief suspension. We have arrived at the fourth speaker, Mr Knops, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations again to our new colleague, Mrs Mutluer, who has kept a very passionate story, a combination of her personal passion and the subject we are discussing today. Mr. Chairman. This is an extremely serious issue, because life crimes are the most serious crimes we know. Manslaughter and murder have such a heavy impact on relatives and society as a whole that we believe that only a long term custodial sentence is an appropriate response to such suffering. The deliberate removal of a neighbor causes immense suffering to the next of kin. Recent examples such as the murders of Derk Wiersum and Peter R. de Vries, committed in broad daylight and in which, with danger of life for bystanders, someone with severe violence is taken from life, confirm this once again. They also show that society must be protected from criminals shooting around it. In order to stop the organized drug crime that is related to these accounts somewhat, a tough approach is needed. Without a hard approach to these behaviors, serious criminals feel free to do what they want and feel like a fish in the water in the Netherlands. The cabinet has made tackling organised and undermining crime a priority. This is, of course, warmly supported by our group. In our group's view, this legislative proposal is also fully in line with this approach. The signals from the legal practice have made it clear that the current penalty limit is considered to be inconvenient in the case of very serious cases of manslaughter. For example, in a 2016 ruling, the judge explicitly stated that, after a 16-year sentence of the Public Prosecutor, she would impose a 15-year sentence. I quote: since she had come to the lesser legal qualification of confession of manslaughter instead of murder and the maximum sentence for manslaughter is fifteen years. The judge added that the lower qualification did not make the heinous actions of suspect less reprehensible. In the opinion of the CDA Group, the possibility of imposing penalties is therefore no longer in line with the seriousness of such offences. The maximum sentence for murder was raised to 30 years in 2016. The difference between the maximum prison sentence for manslaughter and that for murder has increased in the current state of affairs as a result. That 15-year sentence hole has gotten way too big. This is all the more pressing because of the higher demands that the court has made since 2012 to the premeditated council, the distinctive criterion between manslaughter and murder. With the premeditated council, the judge had a psychological understanding in mind. This means that it must always be proved, legally and convincingly, that the offender has actually thought about the meaning and consequences of his intended act and has taken it into account. The tightening of the evidence requirements by the Supreme Court has the consequence that the judge has to explain more clearly than before why it is reasonable to assume that the defendant has actually thought about his or her intended act in the aforementioned sense. Rather, it was sufficient if he or she had had the opportunity to do so. Although justice is due to the original will of the legislator, this means that, in the case of very serious life crimes, the qualification of manslaughter rather than murder will be more frequent. That is a legal reality that we are dealing with. This increase is therefore necessary in order to bring the sentence into line with the seriousness of a crime. Also from the "WODC investigation report Increase penalty maximum murder; is forty the new thirty?" It appears from 2019 that, between 2006 and 2018, in the case of manslaughter convictions, hardly the current maximum sentence of 15 years in prison was imposed. In recent years, it has also been found that single manslaughter has on average been subject to a prison sentence of seven to eight years. An increase in the penalty ceiling, as the CDA Group hopes, will also motivate judges to impose sanctions that will be more in line with the possibilities already offered by the law and will now certainly offer with this change. Mr. Chairman. On 1 July 2021, the Law on Penalty and Protection came into force. This law has reduced the period of conditional release from one third of the prison sentence to a maximum of the last two years. This is in line with the social displeasure that has lived for a long time over just sitting out of two thirds of the sentence imposed. For both victims and survivors as well as society as a whole, this feels very unfair. It is therefore a good thing that this has ended. The law currently under discussion also responds to the call in society for a heavier approach to serious crime and is therefore in line with it. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on behalf of our group, I would like to draw attention to the application of what is now proposed as a legislative proposal. I would therefore ask the Minister how the cabinet will ensure that this legislation is effective and will ensure that it will actually be punished more severely. To this end, I would like to draw attention once again to the directives drawn up by both the OM and the case-law on offences and manslaughter, as has recently been discussed in this Chamber in the debate on sexual offences. Will the Cabinet enter into consultation with the Public Prosecutor and the case-law on the directives, so that the penalties are actually in line with the seriousness of the facts and the social suffering that this entails? I'd like a confirmation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u11	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Knops. Then we arrived at the speaker on behalf of the DENK Group, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In 2008 I became a city councilman. I went to a meeting where I met all the other young city councilmen. One of those city council members was Mrs Mutluer from Zaanstad. I am pleased that since then she has not lost her passion, her passion and her conviction. We saw that today at her maiden speech. I would like to congratulate her on that. Mr. Chairman. A serious topic today. Be stalked for months. Threatened with death. To be taken to school under the escort of family members. Police and justice, who don't take the threats and stalking seriously. And then the final score: a 16-year-old teenager who was executed in the bike shed at her school by means of seven targeted shots in an extremely brutal manner. We all know the regrettable story of the Rotterdam Hümeyra. The story that led us to be here together today. A story that has also caused a national trauma, because these kinds of serious crimes cause irreparable suffering to victims' families and a society that is left behind in shock. On the one hand desperate feelings of family members in the corridors of an extra heavily secured court and on the other hand feelings of disgust and insecurity in society. Crimes of such a caliber therefore raise many questions in society. Why didn't the justice department and the police intervene in time? Where was the government trying to protect the right to life of its citizens? Is it a lack of manpower or is it a lack of action? And can this happen to my child? Mr. Chairman. Murder and manslaughter are similar, but there is no doubt that there is an important legal difference between murder and manslaughter. Manslaughter is an impulsive act, while the killer kills someone in the first degree, in other words: there can be evidence that there was a plan. According to Mr Van der Burg, President of the College of Attorney General, it is logical that murder has a higher maximum sentence than manslaughter. But whether something can be proven or not doesn't really affect the seriousness of the fact. Relaxing is soothing. Still, the difference between murder and manslaughter is pretty good. In 2006, the maximum sentence for murder went up to 30 years, but the maximum sentence for manslaughter has not been increased. If you consider that when the Code of Criminal Law was introduced in 1884, which Mr Ellian also referred to, the average life expectancy of a person was 41 years, then a prison sentence of 15 years might have been in place. But by now, life expectancy has doubled. The group of DENK wonders why the sentence for manslaughter has not been increased since 1884. That is why DENK supported Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment. Mr. Chairman. Different signals from practice actually all lead to the same questions. Does the criminal threat of manslaughter do justice to the seriousness of the crime? Does the law give the judge sufficient room for manoeuvre to impose appropriate punishment? The DENK Group understands these questions, because how should the next of kin feel when they hear that an offender who has killed a child with 85 stabbings has only served five years and four months in prison? Aren't the next of kin with such a tragicly low prison sentence of the perpetrator double punished? My group simply does not think it should be explained, not to the next of kin and not to society. It's incomprehensible, unheard of and heartbreaking. Mr. Chairman. As far as we're concerned, we're sitting here today for late maintenance. That is why it is a good thing that this bill is on the table. However, we would like to make it clear that an increase in the penalty ceiling for manslaughter does not, de facto, mean that 25 years of imprisonment will be imposed in future in every case. Fortunately, the Netherlands has a proper legal system, whereby judges impose an appropriate penalty on each case in all reasonable terms. For the sake of clarity, this amendment does justice to the fact that, with all due respect, the maximum penalty for manslaughter can generally be eliminated with a higher sentence of imprisonment, with the result that the sense of justice of Dutch society and its confidence in the rule of law are respected. With a small comment, I would like to ask the Minister whether the social and social consequences for convicted persons who may be in prison for a long time have been taken into account. Mr. Chairman. We're not judges. We Members of Parliament do not judge what an appropriate punishment is, how many years of imprisonment a person is being imposed or what description of the offence is applicable. There is no study that shows that heavier punishment by definition reduces misconduct. There is no scientific evidence that more severe punishment is enough in itself to fight crime and deter criminals. A criminal's chance of getting caught contributes more to less crime. However, these are not the only reasons why we are punishing in the Netherlands. We also punish the next of kin, for retaliation and for a standard confirmation to the rest of society. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, the group of DENK is in favour of the bill to increase the maximum sentence for manslaughter. But we do ask the Minister why he has chosen to apply 25 years rather than 20 years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u13	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Kuzu. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin, of course, by congratulating Mrs Mutluer warmly. We've already had a lot of debate. That was very good, but as of today we have also heard her maiden speech in the plenary. Thus the membership of this House of Representatives is really official, even though it was of course already. Good luck to you! Mr. Chairman. I've rarely seen such a clear bill. In fact, it is proposed to replace the number 15 by 25 in the Code of Criminal Law as regards the maximum penalty for the crime of manslaughter. For the crime of manslaughter, the judge will now be given more room to impose up to 25 years in prison. In my view, there is little wrong with that in principle. I am against minimum punishment, but I am not against high or higher maximum punishment in my own right, because the judge will then have the freedom to impose a penalty appropriate to that complex of facts. Now I could stop my contribution, but I also think it is the co-legislator's job to take a critical look at the justification for this proposal. I can see the Minister looking disappointed. I understand the proposal, but I certainly also have critical questions. Because what exactly is the importance of this law? What pressing problem in society actually solves this? And what is the practical consequence? Will this make the Netherlands safer? Do bad guys get caught before? The answer seems to me to be negative. According to the explanatory statement, the ratio between the penalty ceilings for murder and manslaughter was disturbed when the murder ceiling was raised from 20 to 30 years in 2006. That was necessary again because otherwise the difference between the life sentence and the maximum temporary sentence until then was too great. But as a result, the difference between manslaughter, up to 15 years old, and murder, up to 30 years old, is now found too big and it is proposed to raise the penalty ceiling for manslaughter again, so that the difference is another five years, as for 2006. I do not consider the proposal to be very convincing in itself. I don't think the arguments are very strong. I cannot escape the impression that it was Hümeyra's serious case that led to this proposal. As Mr Kuzu said, she was being stalked and was ringing the bell everywhere, but she could not hear anything. The government has made very big mistakes in this case. She wasn't protected, and that eventually led to her death. The inspection found that the government has been seriously flawed. We have had political debates here about how this could happen, how this could and should be prevented in the future, and whether victims of stalking are actually protected, now and in the future. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Minister today to look into the situation with regard to the improvements that have been made to these matters. But for this bill, the legal question is particularly interesting. That was: did the unsub, Bekir E., kill the victim, Hümeyra, in the first degree? If the answer was no, the penalty limit was 15 years, but if it was considered that this was the case, a maximum of 30 years could be demanded and imposed. At first instance, premeditation was not proven. There was a lot of fuss, because the maximum punishment that could be imposed did not feel right for many people. I understand that very well. The social outrage was enormous. A motion was also tabled in the Chamber at the time. It has led to this bill. But on appeal, Bekir E. was still convicted of murder. There it was considered that there was premeditation and thus a higher penalty could be imposed. My question to the Minister is: what was the impact of this case on this bill? And does the appeal in this case or does it or not put it in another light? How many more examples are there where the judge could not handle the penalty limit in force? And did the judiciary ask the minister to raise the ceiling, because it really couldn't go on like this? How often does it happen that the prosecution and the judge run into the penalty limit, that they would want to claim higher in a manslaughter case or sentence than is currently allowed under the maximum? I have not yet seen this argument in the written round, but it seems to me to be relevant. I also consider the following question relevant. Doesn't raising the maximum sentence for manslaughter lead to unreasonable expectations? Will next of kin be disappointed in the future, for example, if 25 years is the maximum penalty, but the average penalty imposed remains significantly lower? How does the Minister see this? Mr. Chairman. What I do not find strongly motivated by the proposal is that it strongly refers to the Van Wijngaarden motion of February 2020. That came after CDA Minister Grapperhaus said in the debate on the Hümeyra case: I see that the maximum penalty for manslaughter in certain cases, such as this case, is racking, so I come up with a bill. Next, a VVD member submits a motion that says: that sentence should go to, for example, 25 years. I appreciate that Mr Ellian had a sober and not a triumphant contribution today. I thought what he did was perfectly right. But before, his VVD colleagues were proud that they had made society safer by filing a motion to raise the penalty limit to 25 years. We even saw a VVD minister who at that time wasn't about it at all, because it was the VVD Minister for Legal Protection on the website of the VVD saying: "The penalty hole is far too large. That is why we are increasing the maximum sentence for manslaughter to 25 years, so that society will be safer again. VVD'. So again compliments for the more sober attitude of the VVD spokesperson today. But that motion from the VVD, which came after a CDA minister had already said he would come forward with a proposal, is now used in the explanatory statement as a justification why the Chamber wanted this proposal. I do not therefore believe that that is the basis for this proposal. I hope I've expressed myself a little clearly. In short, Mr President. Once again, I really understand the proposal and I really agree with all the sensible things that have been said about it by colleagues. So I'm not against the judge getting out of the way with a good sentence limit. But, Mr. Chairman, changing the law isn't that difficult. As I said, it is about changing a figure in the law in this case, but what really matters is that we make the Netherlands substantially safer. That's much harder, but it's also more important. We need to make sure that the chance of getting caught goes up, that we are going to do more about prevention and that we are really going to protect victims of stalking. All these proposals are not in front of us today, and we are going to come back to them in other debates, but there is still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u15	Did that bring you to the end of your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u16	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u17	Thank you for your contribution, Mr. Van Nispen. I see Mr. Ellian has an interruption for you. I would add that, according to the Rules of Procedure, interruptions begin with a question, possibly followed by a brief explanation. Mr. Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u18	After this strict warning, of course, I shall begin with a question, Mr President, because I do not wish to defy you. What is justice for Mr Van Nispen if someone's life has been deliberately taken from him? That is the question, Mr President. The brief explanation is: if someone is in a bus and sees a potential victim across the street, says to the bus driver "stop," gets out, takes a firearm, crosses, thinks, and then finally shoots the victim, that is, I hope, murder for most people in this room. Why do you think it is fair that this person in our system can only be convicted of manslaughter?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u19	That question has nothing to do with this bill. It is about the criterion of premeditatedness, which the Supreme Court has made strict demands on in the past. We can find all kinds of things, and we can have a debate on this, but that is not, of course, the question before us, because this law does not solve the problem outlined by Mr Ellian. The question of what is right for me may certainly be asked by Mr Ellian, but my answer will be: there is no more justice after taking away the life of another. In some cases, a next of kin will not find punishment high enough. By the way, it is, of course, up to the judge to judge what will be an appropriate punishment in all the circumstances of the case. In doing so, we shall set the penalty limits. That is what the legislative proposal is about, but not about the criterion for when there is or is not premeditated. I also refer to what I said earlier. Sometimes it's very close. For example, in the Hümeyra case, the court at first instance found that there was no premeditation, but that the appeal court ultimately ruled differently, which allowed a higher penalty limit. Even so, I am not going to say here that there is talk of justice, because for next of kin, I do not think any punishment can make up for the suffering that has been caused.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u20	Then Collega Van Nispen will give the answer himself, won't he? We cannot do anything about this criterion, and I do not think we should do anything about it; that is up to the judge. But when you talk about justice, it is in the example I have just mentioned that I think that some colleagues have also had very nice contributions. Surely it is fair that someone could be punished much higher. There is no such possibility now, because the penalty threat is 15 years. Then it's not wrong that that criminal threat to that behavior goes to 25 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u21	I really understand what Mr Ellian is saying. Of course, in the most poignant examples, you would indeed say that no punishment is high enough, but with that argument you could actually abolish virtually all the penalty limits and give judges the complete freedom to determine what is just in certain cases. I understand the proposal, but I also think it is my job to ask critical questions about the justification. And I looked at the basis of the proposal. I have also looked at the two cases in the case law referred to in the explanatory memorandum. I saw that Mr Knops had done the same. But there are no more cases where a judge says I'm bumping into the penalty limit. So I fear a little that what Mr Ellian is doing here will give rise to the expectation that, as of today, if we have adopted this proposal and it is also approved by the First Chamber, the penalties will rise. We can't make that promise here, because that's what the judge is about in the end. On average, it is doubtful whether the penalties will go up on average as a result of this proposal. We should simply not make that promise here with each other, because I do not think that would be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u22	Clear. Thanks, again. Then we have arrived at Mr Romke de Jong of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I am replacing Mr Sneller today, who is a welcome guest but is unable to attend tonight. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Mutluer from here on her maiden speech. It's nice that she could say it now, on such an important subject. It was therefore all the more beautiful to hear her words here in the plenary. Mr. Chairman. In the explanatory memorandum to this proposal, the cabinet states that the proposal reflects the changing social perception of the criminality of life crimes. The cabinet stands for a civil-oriented criminal law, it says itself, and that is good news because that is what D66 stands for. But the question remains: what does society want? The discussion about low penalties often flares up, too fitting and too careless. But what does research show? If citizens sit in the court seat and look into the case, they will in almost all cases impose an equal or less severe punishment than the judge. So what is the purpose of imposing sanctions? And what do we, as a society, want to achieve with that? What punishments and levels of punishment can we use to achieve these goals? As far as D66 is concerned, there is only one way to find out, namely by letting society speak about this itself. My party has already asked the cabinet to organise a civil forum for precisely that purpose. I would like to draw your attention to that once again. Until then, my question is: what information does the Minister base the assumption that the social view on the criminality of life crimes has changed? And is that information sufficient to justify an increase in the penalty ceiling of a third party? Mr. Chairman. The question of what is the purpose of imposing a penalty is not so easy to answer. The views of politics and practice differ widely in this respect. Former Minister Dekker said in a committee debate on 21 December: "The main objective of a punishment is retaliation and recompense towards the victim." That is striking, because the case law itself feels differently. They describe the criminal targets as follows: "Retribution is one of the purposes of imposing a punishment, but a punishment must also prevent another person from going wrong. There must be a certain deterrent effect of the punishment. Punishment must ensure the protection of a society." The Council for Criminal Application does not believe that retaliation is the only criminal purpose, as the report shows. They also talk about effective and meaningful punishment, behavioral change, reintegration, deterrent and reduced recidivism. Even the current minister seems to think differently, because in her letter of 16 February on penalties for sexual abuse, she said: "In addition to retaliation, preventing repeated crime is an important objective of criminal law. Both the suspect and society can benefit most from targeted treatment and handling of underlying issues in certain cases." That is what the Minister himself says: harsh and high punishment is not always the solution. Apart from the question of exactly what retribution is and when society, the perpetrator or the victim experiences a punishment as recompense, the judges and experts, like D66, find that pursuing retaliation has only undesirable consequences for society. Because if, due to a higher level of punishment, the repetition goes up, then we are making society more unsafe. That is why I ask the Minister: what impact does increasing the penalty rate have? Are we making our society safer by imposing a higher punishment? And is a punishment for possible offenders more frightening by this increase? What does that tell you? Let us also remember that a prison sentence costs on average €307 per day. Do the costs of possibly keeping someone locked up for 10 years outweigh the benefits for society? Those are all questions that haven't been answered before D66. Then my final point, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u24	I suggest you finish your contribution. Then Mr Markuszower can interrupt afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u25	I've got a little bit left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u26	Then that is the sign for me to give Mr Markuszower the opportunity. Mr. Markuszower, as for Mr. Ellian, you have a question first and then a brief explanation, if strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u27	Did I understand correctly? That is a question that Mr De Jong of D66 just said it is important to consider the costs in protecting society? A murderer or someone convicted of manslaughter, let's just call that Hümeyra killer again, and it costs a lot of money. Is that an argument for giving the killer a lower sentence, because the state pays a little less money? What exactly is the argument here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u28	This is a question I'm asking the Minister. This is a question I'm asking now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u29	I understand that, but what answer would Mr De Jong give on behalf of D66? What's more important is to lock up someone who killed a girl or calculate the cost of it and, on that basis, decide that there should be a lower sentence? What's D66's opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u30	The judgment of D66 is: do justice to the judgment. This includes the social costs and also the costs of the prison system, but they are absolutely not leading our party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u31	Also an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas on behalf of BBB.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u32	Surely Mr De Jong knows that a judge does not have to impose 25 years? He can also impose 10 or 12 years. So what's the problem with those 25 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u33	I know, I know. The judge doesn't have to do that. Mr Knops also referred to it in his speech and I will mention it in a moment: he does this, even more so, not often. But at the moment we are not convinced that increasing the penalty rate is the solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u34	I think that D66 is very technocratic. There are now just countless relatives of victims in the Netherlands, such as the family of Hümeyra, which has been mentioned here many times. I miss that in the contribution of D66, who only looks a little bit at the costs, a little sister and a little bit like that. Isn't it also about the impact it has on society, the anger and grief of the families who have shot or stabbed their loved ones? That moral aspect must count at least as heavy, if not heavier, as all kinds of small technical solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u35	I agree with Mrs Van der Plas. The impact on society is more than just the impact on the victim. However, I would like to point out that research also shows that the risk of repetition of misbehaviour is reduced by almost 50% when a community service or prison sentence is imposed with a focus on resocialisation. Long prison sentences are counterproductive to that re-socialization. Why would we put those results in the dirt?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u36	We don't have to put anything in the garbage. In fact, I will come back to my first question: a judge is being pretended to be obliged to impose 25 years from today, but that is not the case at all. A judge always weighs his judgment on the basis of the case. The judge can do it when all the clues are there and he says it's so serious that 25 years should be imposed. In practice, this may not happen at all at all, but he may have the opportunity. Actually, I'd like to ask D66 to consider that. I have an amendment in my hand, co-signed by Mr De Jong, which argues for 20 years. I'd still like to consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u37	I thank Mrs van der Plas for that consideration. For D66, only higher punishments aren't the answer. I'm trying to convince you of that in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u38	Mr Knops has the floor for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u39	I was slightly surprised by Mr De Jong's reasoning that higher penalties lead to higher recidivism. If you were to pursue that reasoning consistently, it would mean that we should stop imposing penalties, have good conversations, apply re-socialisation, and then we could get back into society. This cannot be the intention of such serious crimes, which have shocked society and created an unsafe society. It certainly does have a terrifying effect. I hope you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u40	I certainly agree with you. D66 seeks the balance between the measure of punishment, resocialization and the overall effect on society. That's what we're looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u41	We're not talking shoplifting here. We are not talking about other offences where you could put the "light" label on. We're talking about one of the most serious crimes anyone can commit, taking away someone else's life. Then we can't say, "Well, then we have to look at what it costs extra if someone is in prison"? If we maintain that reasoning and the reasoning that longer punishment leads to higher recidivism, then we are not going in the right direction. I believe that society should be protected from these kinds of people. What does Mr De Jong think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u42	I share Mr Knops' view that we must protect society. However, this means that, as a party, we have to consider each time whether extending the penalty is the only solution to achieve a better level of punishment. At the moment, I'm not convinced of that. You have just heard me ask a number of questions and I still put them to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u43	I must confess to you: my ears are blowing a bit. What D66 does is highlight one goal of criminal law, namely resocialisation, but there are more goals. What do you think of special and general prevention? We want there to be a deterrent effect so that others do not do so. What do you think of retribution and justice to the victim and the next of kin in this case? Those are three other goals, you don't call them "for convenience" when you're talking about protecting the highest law, human life. You just ignore that and say: yes, if we ask people, it will come out that they think re-socialization is the most important thing. Surely this cannot be the position of D66 in 2022? We're talking about the deliberate removal of life. Is D66 serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u44	I would, however, like to point out that between 2000 and 2009, the criminal lawman started to impose more than 10% heavier penalties for the same type of crime. In the case of violent crimes, the rate of increase is even 20%. If we compare that level of punishment with other European countries, we are also stranded high in the ranking. We do not want to be regarded as the most punishing judge, I do not think that this is a merit, but at the moment we do think that we should make a very secure assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u45	I see Mr. Kuzu walking in for an interruption. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u46	I am curious to see how those D66 considerations take into account the application of judges. Judges also indicated after the case of Hümeyra: increase the penalty for manslaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u47	We have, of course, heard the same call. Once again, for us, it is a search for the balance between the proposal before us this evening, how often judges currently use that right and how often it pinches. I'm gonna try and explain this one more time. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u48	We'll wait and see. Mr Van Nispen has just said in his speech that this has happened in two cases. I hope that Mr De Jong will also comment on what Hümeyra's family and relatives have said in court. I really hope that Mr De Jong of D66 saw that family burst into tears after hearing the judge's ruling. I also hope that Mr De Jong's contribution will reflect on the sense of fairness of family members and victims in his consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u49	I will not go into this specifically in my speech, but I fully agree with Mr Kuzu that this is terrible. I also heard the speech. I get it, too. However, the question before us this evening is whether this is the solution to the penalty. I still have doubts and questions about that. I'd like to ask the Minister these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u50	Mr De Jong has heard the family, heard the judge, heard a large part of society, but already says that increasing the penalty is not in place for D66. So you heard them, but you're not doing anything with them. That is what remains of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u51	I think that conclusion is a little too short. I have doubts about this proposal. There is also an amendment I would like to join. I've got that struggle. I also have questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u52	Please continue with the last part of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u53	Mr. Chairman. The final point. It is not clear to me yet what the need is for the penalty ceiling to be increased. That's just what I've been trying to tell you in interruptions. A 2019 report by the WODC shows that between 2006 and 2018 the current maximum sentence of fifteen years was hardly imposed on a manslaughter conviction. During the investigation period, this has only happened once. In the following years, the average imposed unconditional custodial sentence was eight years in 2020 and six years in 2021. There is case law showing that in very exceptional cases, the current penalty ceiling is perceived as oppressive in practice. Mr Kuzu also referred to it. I repeat, these are very exceptional cases. Punishment and protection by the Law have already been incarcerated for some time, because they are no longer automatically released. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following. If the current maximum penalty is rarely imposed, prisoners have not been released automatically since 2021 and therefore have to sit longer, what is the need now to increase the maximum penalty? I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. What is the purpose of imposing a punishment? That's the underlying question that needs to be answered before we make a drastic decision on increasing the penalty rate. The experts, the judges and even the current minister agree that retaliation is not the only objective to pursue. My group agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u54	Thank you for your contribution. I see one last interruption by Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u55	To go into the latter, also in the light of what Mr Ellian said: can Mr De Jong indicate what D66 are all criminal targets? Mr De Jong says that it is not only retaliation, but can he look at all the criminal targets before D66 and give them an appreciation? Do you not agree that it was a very cowardly contribution from D66? There are only questions asked to the Minister, without explicitly admitting that D66 simply wants to punish Hümeyra not only as murderers, but in general assassins, because it would cost too much money and b because of some crazy theory that it would come back to harm. Then I have a second question, which I would like to put right. Does Mr De Jong understand that...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u56	Mr. Markuszower, I think it's good for the debate if we do it by question. Otherwise the question will not be answered properly. Your first question is clear. By the way, it is not so much my rule that you should ask a question in the event of an interruption. That is the agreement we have included in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u57	Retribution is one of the purposes of criminal detention. But a punishment must also prevent someone from making another mistake. There must be a certain deterrent effect of punishment and punishments must ensure the protection of society. There must be a balance between the criminal targets. That's what D66 stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u58	Does Mr. De Jong understand that as long as a killer is in prison, he can't repeat himself because he's in prison? Does Mr De Jong understand that the longer a murderer is in prison, the less likely he is to commit another murder during that prison sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u59	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u60	Can Mr De Jong of D66 then go along with the conclusion that it is sometimes useful to put murderers in prison for a very long time, so that society is protected from that murderer for a very long time during that very long prison period?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u61	I think it's becoming a complex, because you're talking about murderers all the time, when today is really about manslaughter. I think that is a real difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u62	The essential difference is, of course, in the legal system. But what does Mr. De Jong of D66 call someone who hacks into a girl 15 times? Is that a killer? Or does he say that he is a man convicted of manslaughter; there was not enough time for premeditation, because the Supreme Court has ruled that...? Is he giving such an answer, or is it just called "a killer" in the speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u63	Now I'm gonna finish, too, Mr. Chairman. I'll leave that judgment to the judge. What matters to me, as I have tried to tell you in my contribution, is what punishment stands for D66. I have given you a number of considerations. I hear very clearly that you are not satisfied with this, but this is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u64	Then finally, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u65	I wonder what the position of D66 is. I thought it was kind of cloudy right now. In his contribution, Mr De Jong says that he wonders whether increasing the penalty rate will bring benefits, but I do see his name under an amendment that has already been tabled. You're in favour of an increase from 15 to 20 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u66	At the moment, I really want to do my best to see where we can amend the bill. Hence this amendment. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u67	So again, to be clear, you're 20 years old?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u68	With the amendment we are for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u69	Well, at least that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u70	Thank you again, Mr. De Jong. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van der Plas, on behalf of the BoerCitizen Movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u71	Thank you. Mr President, dear citizens at home and in the gallery. Some of my colleagues have already mentioned her name, and I will. After all, her name cannot be mentioned often enough. On 18 December 2018, 16-year-old Hümeyra was shot dead in cold blood by Bekir E. Hümeyra, who had been stalked, threatened and abused by him for months. He sent her long messages saying he was gonna kill her. That week before Christmas in 2018 he added the deed to the word and Bekir E horribly robbed the 16-year-old student at the bicycle shed of her school in Rotterdam. Shot from behind while she ran away. Because murder was initially not proven, Bekir E. was sentenced to 14 years in prison for manslaughter and TBs with coercion. The shock in the family was enormous. Angry they were because of this low sentence for the killer... indeed... of their beautiful daughter and dear sister. 14 years was almost the maximum sentence that the judge could impose for this repulsive act. To date, manslaughter has been subject to a maximum sentence of 15 years. Only because murder was proven on appeal did Bekir E. receive 6 years in 2021. 20 years in jail. If the law had been different then, and had already been there for a maximum of 25 years on manslaughter, then the enormous suffering in the family might not have had to be made even greater. Possibly Bekir E. had been sentenced to prison for 24 years, 1 year less than the maximum, as in 2019, when he also got 1 year less than the maximum. A lousy 14 years in this case. The violence against Hümeyra is not on its own. Many things are similar. They lead to anger and incomprehension in the families, but also in society. That is why I am pleased that the proposed legislative amendment will now enable us to put an end to this situation. Robbing someone with your full consciousness of life, manslaughter, is, like murder by the way, the worst thing anyone can do. By killing someone, you take away the victim. Everything. The victim will never be able to achieve goals or share love with friends, family or partner again. The victim will never be able to laugh, taste success and learn from mistakes. The victim will never be able to take chances and enjoy the little things in life. The family members never get their loved ones home. They'll have to do it for the rest of their lives with memories and photos. Killing a person can and should never become normal, let alone something cool. Unfortunately, we see this again more and more in society: violence that is glorified on TV, in videos and in music, with lethal stabbings, even between children, as a result. What is the Minister's commitment to this terrible trend? As I said, it is a good thing that the present proposal is before us. As a society and as a government, we must make a fist and signal that manslaughter is something we will never accept. If you decide to kill someone, you'll have to pay for it with a quarter of a century in prison. And that is more than justified. Unfortunately, we will not get the victims back, but we can at least ensure that there is a more appropriate punishment for a very serious crime. Hopefully, this will have a terrifying effect the moment someone gets it in his or her blunt head to take someone's life. Mr. Chairman. There is another reason why BBB is in favour of this legislative amendment. That's the difference between manslaughter and murder. That difference is flimsy. Manslaughter is the deliberate killing of a human being. Murder is the deliberate killing of a premeditated human being. The only difference between the two is whether the work is done or not. In both, however, a conscious end to a human life is deliberately brought to an end. Still, for murder, the maximum prison sentence is 30 years, while for manslaughter it's only 15 years. That's a huge difference when you look at the marginal difference between those two. This also brings with it a feeling of injustice, especially with regard to the next of kin. 'Cause imagine the person who killed your loved one gets 15 years for manslaughter, while the perpetrator gets 30 years from a virtually identical murder. How can we explain to the next of kin that this is just? An increase from 15 to 25 years sentence in manslaughter narrows this gap and increases justice, for what it is worth when you get into such a situation. I imagine 25 years is still too low a sentence for someone who's lost a loved one. Because where the unsub can just move on with his or her life after 25 years, the victim and the next of kin can't. In any case, we can ensure that the so-called 'penalty gap' between murder and manslaughter is reduced considerably. This is how we send a signal and ensure that there is an appropriate punishment for the worst that a human being can do, and yet we can bring a little bit of justice to the next of kin. And justice to Hümeyra. Mr. Chairman. In America there are laws that are sometimes named after persons. Persons who were the result of a new law or a change of law. How nice it would be if we could see if this amendment could be named after Hümeyra. That it will be Hümeyra's amendment to the Code of Criminal Law, of course if the family agrees and, of course, in consultation with the family. I would like to ask the Minister if she would look at this possibility, in consultation with the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u72	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Van der Plas. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bikker on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, congratulations to Mr Mutluer, who made a wonderful and passionate contribution. I am sure that we are going to hear a lot from her and that she will often stand up for people she thinks are part of and we would like to see them flourish in full in our society. I think she's a wonderful role model for a lot of those people. In any case, I would like to see her perform here, and I look forward to further cooperation, as well as occasional interruptions. Mr. Chairman. Our legal system is a dam against injustice, against insecurity and against crime. A just criminal justice chain has three main pillars for the Christian Union: combating and punishing injustice, protecting society, and thus preventing recidivism and providing space for resocialisation and recovery. It is ultimately the judge who has to decide in a specific case which punishment is appropriate in the light of these pillars. It is also important to review this bill. Mr. Chairman. First, fighting and punishing injustice. It is important that the victims of crime and their families are given justice and that, in balance with other criminal targets, there is room for retribution and social redress. Social support is indispensable for an effective criminal justice chain. That is not the least of the crime of manslaughter that we are talking about today. Manslaughter is terrible and irreversible, with fatal consequences for the victim, who still had a life ahead of him, and for the next of kin, who will always be struggling with questions about why and how things could have been different. Even today, people will see for whom that re-opens wounds. I want to wish them good luck in this place. Mr. Chairman. In the past, my group has heard the arguments of the Rotterdam Court and of the President of the College of Attorney General for a higher sentence for manslaughter. Those pleas are clearly made. From that perspective, and also from the state of affairs surrounding the trial back then, that seems to be a logical proposal. My group is therefore in favour of increasing the penalty limit for manslaughter. However, we must also look at the logic of the level of the various penalties in the Code of Criminal Law. That takes care. A maximum sentence reflects the seriousness of the facts. Punishment ceilings must also be in proportion to each other. My group still has a number of questions to the Minister. The investigation of the WODC shows that a maximum sentence has only been imposed once and that the maximum penalty is only seen as very painful in very exceptional cases. What, then, is the Minister's view of the need for this substantial increase in the maximum penalty rate? Has the government also considered an increase in the maximum sentence to 18 years, which in general is already mentioned in Article 10 of our Code of Criminal Law, or to twenty years, as the NVvR and the Dutch barristers advise? This also reflects the seriousness of this crime and reduces the gap between manslaughter and murder. My group has supported an amendment by Mr Ellemeet on this point. What does this increase mean in relation to Article 288a of the Criminal Code, for manslaughter for a terrorist purpose? Previously, the legislator has stated that the seriousness of terrorist acts which cause others to die is so serious that this is subject to a maximum sentence of life or 30 years. That's a big difference from the normal 15-year-old manslaughter. How does the Minister see the seriousness of manslaughter for a terrorist purpose? So what does the legislator now say about this punishment? And what does this mean for the weighting of the penalty-aggravating circumstances? Mr. Chairman. The WODC investigation into the penalty limit for murder was: "Extensified penalty limit for murder; is forty the new thirty?" That was an investigation or 40 years should be imposed instead of 30. That study was very clear and said: this calls for a legal systematic approach. At the time, the Minister, her predecessor, followed up on this. How is it that the Minister there says "yes, the legal systematic approach" and that she doesn't think it is necessary for this bill now? Finally, Mr President. Life imprisonment is now being re-evaluated following the case law of the European Court of Human Rights after 25 years. According to the Minister, how does this bill now relate to the lower limit of life, which is already being hit? In doing so, we are actually bringing a different type of crime in the same direction, where the border is also hitting the border with murder and with life imprisonment. Mr. Chairman. I talked about the three pillars. The second pillar of criminal law is for us to protect society. If punishment is much lower than the sense of social justice, our stomachs are shrinking. I think colleagues have already given examples. Not so long ago, we also had the debate with this minister on penalties in sex cases, where the penalty ceilings have gone up and the directives have gone up, but where the penalties remain in proportion. In my opinion, we all feel a great inconvenience, because perpetrators of terrible crimes get away too often without punishment or, when we look at the WODC report, with a very low sentence. Then we ask this minister to talk to the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary. I have also wholeheartedly supported this, because the sense of social justice is reflected in legislation. This is the only way to restore confidence in society and to support and support criminal law. Also with this bill we all have the case in mind of how this started. But I think there is also a lesson to be learned from the fact that the Chamber must wait and see what the whole process of justice will bring. The Chamber has declared itself in favour of an increase in the penalty ceiling for manslaughter. I still share the belief that there is indeed too big a gap between murder, 30 years, and manslaughter: 15 years. But in the case in question, the judge finally came to the conclusion that there was murder. Now, if we're gonna work on the penalty, it's gonna have to be substantiated and reasoned. Frankly, the legal history of the bill I've studied so far is even thin. So I hope the Minister will come up with more support. Mr. Chairman. The last pillar is the prevention of recidivism, the space for resocialisation and recovery. At this point, I read that after three years, the Minister will evaluate the impact of the legislative proposal. I would ask the Minister not to do so only after three years. For if higher penalties are imposed, it will be only after the average of 12 years imposed that convicted persons are longer. So when will the consequences of this bill become clear? I don't think it's gonna be long-term. You can see it coming. Therefore, I do not make a three-year cut in the Christian Union's request, but I ask for a repeat report. I would also ask the Minister to clarify what it means in the meantime for the work of Reclassing the Netherlands and the voluntary organizations in prisons. According to the Law on Punishment and Protection, rehabilitation is already being started in prisons. What effect does this bill have on that? Mr. Chairman. One final point. In the treatment of the Penalty and Protection Act, the Chamber was concerned about the so-called calculating inmate. In that law, it was chosen to shorten the parole period to one third of the sentence, with a maximum of two years. This reduced the parole for inmates with a prison sentence for more than six years. I understand that between 100 and 120 prisoners are sentenced to such a custodial sentence every year. In the new system, further to the early release, an extended probation period may be imposed which is sometimes even unlimited or which is at least renewed over and over again, let us call it neatly. But the concern was that long-term punishments would not therefore apply for provisional release, in order to escape that extended probation period and supervision, because they are linked to the provisional release. These prisoners then serve their sentence and return unguided into society. That calculating prisoners choose this outcome and that this can still be done, I find very undesirable. That is why I really do not understand the PVV amendment. Unfortunately, the spokesperson is not present for a moment, but I hope that Mr Markuszower will find out in another place. The minister's minister's predecessor has already written several times that he expects it to go well with those calculating detainees. But I just don't know how this is going and I want the Minister to keep his finger on the pulse at this point, otherwise we will achieve the opposite of what that whole Act was about punishing and protecting. By increasing the maximum sentence around manslaughter, this could once again result in a new group of calculating detainees. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The Christian Union Group shares the House-wide view that the gap between the maximum sentence of murder, 30 years, and that of manslaughter, 15 years, is very large and that there are arguments to increase the penalty for manslaughter. But the current choice deserves a better basis. For the time being, there is a slightly smaller step towards still 20 years, even in view of the length of other penalties imposed, which is more obvious. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u74	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Bikker. I see you have an interruption. From Mr. Van Nispen. That's what he did with a whip that made me realize him just like you were a little late.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u75	An informative question to Mrs Bikker. Suppose the amendment was co-tabled by her not to go to 25 years but to 20 years, it would not make it. What would be her advice to her group; can she shed any light on that? Her advice on this law, of course, I mean. Do you or do you not support this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u76	Of course, I give a lot of advice to my group, as you understand, Mr President. I have made it very clear to the Minister that I want a better basis for 25 years' choice anyway. I have seen very well what motion has been tabled by this Chamber and which parties have voted in favour of this motion. There are many of them, including the speakers present today. So I understand that the minister and earlier her predecessor have started working on the increase in the level of punishment, especially after what we have heard from the social field. But that motion also made it very clear: "like 25 years" or "for example 25 years." Frankly, there are not so many arguments in the reasoning of the Minister and of her ministers about the legislative proposal on that point. We do need them to look at the whole of the Code of Criminal Law and say: this is proportionate. Otherwise, you'll get a punitive spiral. You're gonna raise punishments over and over again, but why and for what? So that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u77	Enough, Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u78	Almost, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u79	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u80	And so, I would like to ask Mrs Bikker. I understand this answer, but I don't have it sufficiently sharp yet. I understand that Mrs Bikker is waiting for the Minister's answers. It may be that she is convinced: if the amendment is not going to make it, it will have to be weighed up, whether or not for the 25 years. Am I to understand that Mrs Bikker says: I haven't figured that out yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u81	If it stays 15 years, I'll find the hole very big. I made that clear. There's also abdominal pain, if you were to say that you'd vote it out completely. If I look at the choice for 25 years at the same time and compare it with, for example, manslaughter for a terrorist purpose or for murder and for life, I find twenty years more appropriate. I also believe that the Minister should keep an eye on the entire system of our criminal law and the measurement of penalties, because that is what the Minister is responsible for. If the Minister says: yes... Maybe she has good arguments for that. It's possible. Actually, that's what I'm counting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u82	Thank you again for your contribution. Then we have arrived at the one-after-last speaker, Mrs Ellemeet, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mrs Mutluer for a wonderful and inspiring speech. What appealed to me very much was that you said: we should not be naive; we should look at punishment, but we should certainly also look at prevention. That is a subject that sometimes gets too little attention in this Chamber. So I am extremely pleased that we have an ambassador for prevention in our midst, because I think that is very much needed. Mr. Chairman. In 2021, 122 people were killed intentionally and premeditatedly or otherwise. Among them is Peter R. de Vries, who was murdered in July 2021. Most cases of murder and manslaughter don't make it to the media. Some people who may be watching this debate do have personal experiences. I want to wish them a lot of good luck from here too. Some of these cases have gotten out of hand and related violence involving victims. A little less than half of the victims are women. In these cases of femicide, the partner or ex-partner is often designated as the perpetrator. I can't believe people are robbing each other of their lives. GroenLinks also takes for granted that perpetrators of murder and manslaughter should be tracked, prosecuted and tried. That is what we owe to the victims and their families, but also to society. You have to be able to see that the law is enforced. This bill reduces the supposed gap between manslaughter, which currently holds a maximum of 15 years in prison. It has already been mentioned several times... and murder, which, in addition to life imprisonment, includes a maximum of 30 years. With the increase in the maximum sentence on manslaughter to 25 years in prison, the penalty difference with murder is reduced to five years. This implements the Van Wijngaarden motion. In fact, the implementation goes one step further, because that motion says "for example 25 years." Mrs Bikker just referred to that. One of the reasons for this bill is the horrible death of Hümeyra; some of my fellow Members have already mentioned her name. The judge in that case and the President of the College of Attorneys General found in these kinds of tragedies the difference between the maximum duration of the temporary imprisonment for manslaughter and murder too great. GroenLinks notes that a large number of penalties have been imposed in recent years. With the introduction of the public service ban, the court is also limited in its ability to provide customised treatment in the sentence. To speak with Amsterdam's lawyers Malouke Kuiper and Benjamin van Rooij, there is actually disproportionate attention to increasing penalties and insufficient attention to prevention. Then I'll come back to the congratulations. We are talking about a very important subject here. My group also thinks it is right that we should look at this increase. But we must not forget how extremely important it is to make more effort on the preventive side, including from this house. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Order of Lawyers and the Dutch Association for Justice point out that the criminal justice system already has possibilities to reduce the difference between manslaughter and murder if this is justified. In addition to manslaughter, for example, we know qualified manslaughter when manslaughter is committed in order to enable another crime to be committed or to remain impunity. With the entry into force of the change in conditional release, the criminal court can effectively impose longer custodial sentences for the death penalty, so the net penalty increases. Premeditated, GroenLinks also believes it is legitimate for the criminal legislator to send a signal to the criminal justice system about the criminality of criminal offences. Good, therefore, that in this case the view of the Rotterdam court and the chairman of the prosecutor's pgs was picked up in the criminal case around Hümeyra's death, but it would have been better if the total profession of criminal law enforcement, which advocates for 20 years instead of 25 years, had been listened to. I would also like to mention another point. That actually refers back to the different criminal targets. If I had to sum them up, I would actually give three: prevention and that is an important goal. When it comes to prevention, it must be noted that, in addition to all the legitimate legal arguments given for increase, there is doubt as to whether offenders are interested in the punishment in this type of crime. The deterrent effect of the increase in the penalty for manslaughter is therefore negligible. There is no scientific basis for the idea that higher criminal threat effectively contributes to prevention. So I am not saying that it is a reason not to argue for an increase in sanctions, but if you look at that particular aspect, then you have to say that it does not contribute to that. It would be helpful if substantial efforts were made to prevent relational violence. I know that the Minister also considers this an important subject, so I would like to ask her what more she can do to prevent relational violence wherever possible. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is concerned about the freedom of judicial review in order to impose in concrete criminal cases the penalty that does justice to deterrent, retaliation and improvement. We therefore ask the government why it has not taken part in the reasoned view of the Dutch Association for Justice to be sufficient to raise the penalty to 20 years. I'd like a reaction to that. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u84	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Ellemeet. Then we have arrived at the last speaker. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek on behalf of the Volt Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to start as a fence closer with the congratulations for a very nice maiden speech. As the closing point of the debate, I notice today that this bill forces us as a Chamber to really look at what criminal law does in society. Why do we even have that? First of all, it is important for everyone, for next of kin but also for society, that perpetrators should not go unpunished. That is one of the aims, rightly mentioned, of punishment. But in addition to retribution, punishment also has other goals. That's what I've heard a lot of coming back to the Chamber today. We have to find a balance between these targets. It is important for Volt that appropriate penalties are imposed to meet the various objectives of criminal law. Tougher punishment is not necessarily higher punishment, but smart punishment, all of which are touching different goals. It will therefore be no surprise that Volt is critical of this proposal, particularly as regards the justification of the necessity. In general, we see more in prevention than in repression, because time and time again research shows that longer sentences do not pay much. It does not make society as a whole safer. This proposal does not do much for safety either. I will explain this further, and I have questions about it. First of all, the necessity. The government indicates that there is a large gap between the penalty limits of murder and manslaughter. But is that a justification for increasing the maximum sentence on manslaughter? Does that justify the specific increase from 15 to 25 years? As far as I am concerned, not without clear justification. After all, we already know different forms of manslaughter and higher penalty limits. Take the possibility in the law to condemn someone on the basis of qualified manslaughter or the figure of multiple conspiracy. If there are aggravating circumstances, a higher penalty can already be imposed. Furthermore, the government states that the current maximum penalty is perceived by the case-law as oppressive. That has been mentioned before. At the same time, we see in practice that the maximum penalty is rarely touched. Whether you think that's good or bad, it's a fact. That is why I have the following question to the Minister. Given the difference between practice and theory, is it proportionate to raise the penalty ceiling by ten years? What purpose, what criminal purpose, do we serve with that? Mr. Chairman. In line with the necessity, I would like to consider the argument that murder is more difficult to qualify by the judge, which would unduly reduce penalties. In my opinion, this problem is not solved by increasing the penalty for manslaughter, but by looking at the qualification of murder. It was deliberately chosen in the Code to distinguish between murder and manslaughter, because you must include the intention, the premeditated thought, in the penalty. Aren't we gonna get rid of that with this proposal? And if not, should we not look more closely at the qualification of murder, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There's a maximum of 30 years of temporary punishment. Suppose you put the maximum sentence for manslaughter at 25 years and there's multiple coincidence. Then the sentence to be imposed could be above 30 years. You can't; you can't. This removes the operation of the co-operation mechanism. That could mean that there are as severe penalties for manslaughter as for murder. In my view, this is an obstacle to the legal system of penalty ceilings. It should also be taken into account that the Law already provides for the punishment and protection of prisoners to serve a larger part of their sentence. I would also ask the Minister to reflect on this. To what extent do all these things relate to the smart balance between different criminal targets and how do you respect the system of criminal law? Finally, Mr President. The documents showed that citizens would not object to an increase in the maximum penalty for manslaughter, but at the same time, research carried out by the Dutch Study Centre Crime and Law Enforcement and by Leiden University shows that citizens would often impose the same penalty as judges when they have more information on the facts of a case. So the desire of society to punish harder cannot be taken over in this way. Isn't there an information problem behind it? Can't we focus on that anymore? The social pressure on judges to impose higher penalties may indeed increase when this higher penalty limit becomes a fact, because if you have the option to punish higher, then you should. That too has just passed here in the Chamber. Finally, therefore, I would like to ask a reflection question: is this legislative proposal more protected for society? For that should be the main objective of criminal law as far as I am concerned. And does this proposal really only do what it says it wants to do, namely to remove the bottlenecks? Or does it impose a mandatory standard on judges? I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u86	Thank you for your contribution, Mrs Koekkoek. I see an interruption by Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u87	I would like some clarification from Mrs Koekkoek. I think I heard her say'maybe I misunderstood', which could well be that a sentence of 25 years for manslaughter is too close to the sentence of 30 years for murder. But the act of manslaughter is very often the same as killing someone. Mr. Markuszower mentioned an example of that. If you're stabbed 15 times, then it may not be proven that that was premeditated, but the act is just as bad. I wonder what Mrs Koekkoek thinks about that. Of course, you have a lot of gradations from manslaughter. A lot of them are on the side of murder, but there's just no proof of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u88	I think that is a very valid point, which was discussed earlier. What it does for society or the next of kin doesn't matter. As a lawyer, I can look at the law very technically, but that doesn't change the suffering. Why I say this, even now in my speech, is because I think it is important in the system of criminal law that we continue to make a distinction. Why? Because between manslaughter and murder is that intention, the premeditated. We can discuss that. Does that make it worse? Actually, no. I couldn't agree more. But I think we should take humanity into account. Right on that sliding scale from manslaughter to murder, there's a tilting moment where someone really meant it. At the same time, I did deliberately draw attention to that qualification of murder. I hear that in the question, too. If we have evidence problems when it comes to manslaughter similar to murder, as in this case, shouldn't we also look carefully at what to do with murder? Shouldn't we be looking at that? As far as I am concerned, there is more there than there is in increasing the penalty with this bill, because we are not solving the problem of this sliding scale with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u89	I'm not a lawyer, but I've always understood that killing someone is premeditated, but also that you actually have several moments at which you might withdraw. So it's not like you're thinking "I'm gonna kill someone now; I'm gonna go there and I'm gonna kill him" that's premeditated thinking "well, you know, I'm not gonna do it" in between. I'm just simplistic. Is that right? Because in my mind, if you think "I want to kill that person; I drive there and I kill him," then murder is very hard to prove. Actually, it is, but it could also be manslaughter. So it's very close together. Only, you'll be in legal terms. I think, in those cases, isn't it just very unfair that someone should just get a substantially lower sentence, just because we're looking at the letter of the law? I think that's important, too, but do you know where it's rubbing a little bit on me?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u90	Mrs. Koekkoek, do you have any idea where Mrs. Van der Plas is?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u91	Yeah, sure. Sorry, now I'm laughing. That was because it was also said a few times in the Chamber. I think we understand each other very well. What it actually does, just in the real world, is the same. Someone's gone. That's bad for society and bad for the next of kin. Then it's almost too bad to say: okay, but we're going to look at that very analytically and walk one step at a time. That does not do justice at all to the emotion that is felt at that time. At the same time, as a co-legislator, I think we should look at this piece of technology, so to speak, of how criminal law works. Why? Because not only the purpose of retribution, but also that of protecting society must be honored. When it comes to someone who could have thought a few times "I don't want this now," but it does, it makes it worse, because that intention is present. You've had chances to change your mind. You've had chances to get back at your humanity. And you chose not to take those chances. I think that is important and that this distinction should continue. At the same time, perhaps we will then get closer together, I think that the amendment that has been proposed to reduce the difference, but to go to 20 years, is a good one. I think it is also important, as has been said before; I have for a moment forgotten by which fellow Member Mr O'Honnell that there is not too big a gap between manslaughter and murder, precisely because of the sliding scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u92	I would ask Mrs Koekkoek the question I have also asked Mr De Jong. A judge doesn't have to do it, but may have the possibility at the moment when it actually hits murder, but there's no way to prove it. He doesn't have to do it. So I do not understand that amendment which says that it must be 20 years per se, because that might as well be imposed on a judge. That can also be 15 years, 11 years, 19 years or 24 years. Well, that's up to the judge. So I don't really understand the problem with those 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u93	As I also mentioned at the end of my input, or a little earlier in my input: if the option is there, you should also use that option. There's a big concern for me. Now we are at the end of the first term, so I do not want to open the debate entirely, and I might do so with this. But the moment you say that there is an option to punish for 25 years, and the judge goes down for 10 years, I know certain statements or headlines that I'm worried about, because that pressure can shift the freedom that a judge must have in order to make a trade-off. That is why I explicitly asked the question: will this bill solve bottlenecks or will it also put social pressure to punish higher? So I totally agree that a judge ultimately has that control of his own. It's supposed to be. But if we, as a society, are here in the Chamber, we are also setting a certain standard for society, then it will be difficult to say 'I am not going to that option', precisely because in fact any case of manslaughter or murder is bad. I don't really want to take that off. Is one sting less bad than six stitches? Yeah, in the law, maybe, but for my part, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u94	Finally, Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u95	Finally. I still do not agree with the amendment, but I think Mrs Koekkoek is explaining it very well. She's made a little clearer for me now than that difference, so I'm happy about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u96	Thank you. Thank you again, Mrs Koekkoek. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he needs about 35 minutes, so I'll finish at 21:40, if the Minister's permission. Yes. Then that's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u97	Let's get back to the meeting. The next item is the follow-up to the legal treatment of the amendment of the Criminal Code in connection with the increase in the legal penalty limit for manslaughter, 35871. We have arrived at the first term of the government. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by congratulating Mrs Mutluer. I would also like to congratulate her on her wonderful maiden speech, in which, as far as I am concerned, spirit was the common thread. I think we're gonna see a lot of her. I have already been able to experience them in various committee debates, where she has not made it very easy for me. So I'm looking forward to it for the next few days. I think I wrote more or less literally that she also called young women to always make their voices heard. I am very proud that we have such a Member of Parliament in our midst, if I may say so from this place. I'm still feeling a little old room member anyway, so this is really nice. Mr. Chairman. I am also very grateful that we can discuss an important legislative proposal in this way tonight, and that we can have an open debate here as we should in a rule of law, where we can exchange ideas and ultimately reach a certain decision by a majority. He is not here right now, but I would like to say the following in the direction of Mr Markuszower. So I hope he gets this back. I find it incredibly complicated, and in fact annoying, that in his speech, he is a large part of it, about political parties and everything else, can really make the judiciary extremely dirty. That does not fit in with our rule of law. You can criticize, amend the law, carry out evaluations and have an opinion on it, but I do not think it would be a good idea for the judges who sit there independently and serve our rule of law and together with lawyers, officers, journalists and so on to be the guardians of our rule of law to be blackmailed in this Chamber, just when we also honor the rule of law here by debating openly with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, I would like to thank all Members for their input in the first term. I have some short introductory words and after that I have three folders, where I actually have a lot of bundling. So we have to see whether Members of Parliament think it is logical, but the first is about usefulness and necessity, the second is about effectiveness and implementation, and then I come to the amendments and a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u99	That sounds good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u100	Okay, Mr. Chairman. In 2020, 121 people were killed by murder or manslaughter in the Netherlands, according to the latest statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics. Those are numbers and it's statistics, but it's about 121 lives that have been ripped away. Manslaughter is not just about ruthless scores in the context of organised and undermining crime; it is also about partner violence, where young women, sometimes in front of their children, are deliberately killed. Compared to 2019, the number of young people under 20 has increased from 10 to 18. This also underlines the need for this legislative amendment. This bill is expected to help reduce the increasing number of cases of manslaughter, as I am also responding to Mrs Van der Plas, who made a comment on this. It is a worrying development. Manslaughter is an extremely serious and shocking offence. Every manslaughter causes irreparable and unfathomable suffering to victims' families. It also leads to feelings of disgust, indignation and insecurity in society. The current maximum sentence of 15 years in prison is relatively low. That signal also comes from the legal practice itself. For example, in a specific manslaughter case, the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court considered that in that case the imposition of a prison sentence higher than 15 years was "in principle justified." In the poignant case with the victim Hümeyra, the Rotterdam court indicated that the difference between the penalty limits for manslaughter and murder is too great. Mrs Mutluer rightly drew attention to this in her impressive maiden speech, as has been said. Other spokesmen also recalled her name. The same has been said by the President of the College of Attorney General of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Against this background, the motion by Van Wijngaarden, Kuiken, Van der Staaij, Krol, Hiddema and Van Haga was presented in February 2020. This motion aims to increase the penalty limit for manslaughter to "for example 25 years." The House of Representatives adopted that motion. In line with this, this bill aims to increase the maximum sentence for manslaughter to 25 years in prison. This increase serves different purposes. I say this in response to the comments made by Mr Van Nispen and Mr De Jong. First of all, this is the restoration of the original difference with the maximum temporary prison sentence for murder. This difference was once, in origin, only five years. It's been 15 years. That difference is really too big. Manslaughter and murder are closely related. Manslaughter is the deliberate killing of another human being, and premeditated manslaughter is murder. For the rest, for example as regards the way in which the two crimes are executed, there is no difference between them. That's why manslaughter and murder can be close to each other in practice. This is not adequately reflected in the current maximum penalty for manslaughter. I therefore propose that the penalty for manslaughter be substantially increased. This will bring manslaughter and murder back to balance. In addition, the bill aims to address the average heavier punishment by the judge of manslaughter. Since 2012, judges have on average imposed higher prison sentences in relation to manslaughter. This is demonstrated by research carried out by the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, the WODC. Raising the legal penalty ceiling sends out a clear signal that this heavier punishment is appropriate and necessary. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the maximum penalty increase is intended to give the judge sufficient room for manoeuvre in the most serious cases of homicide to impose an appropriate penalty. In exceptional cases, there is a need for more room for punishment. This is also evident from the judgment of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court of Justice in 2016, which I referred to just now. For the above reasons, I consider it desirable and necessary to substantially increase the maximum penalty for manslaughter. Let me now turn to the questions. Before I start the folders, I will start with a question from Mrs Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u101	Before you begin, I see that Mr Van Nispen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u102	I briefly referred to a quote from the Minister from one of those judgments. Two judgments are used in the explanatory memorandum, which the Minister now also mentions. I've been looking for that quote. Indeed, the court considers that the level of the court's advanced sentence is in principle necessary. But in the end, the Advocate General demanded a sentence of 16 years, because he felt that there was murder. The court couldn't determine that, felt it was manslaughter and came to fifteen years. So the difference is one year. The quote is correct, but the reason why the proposal should then be 25 years is not borne by this, because 16 years were required and 15 years were finally imposed. The Minister also uses the case of Hümeyra as a justification, which has been mentioned a great deal here. It imposed 14 years, and let's not forget that. Eventually, on appeal, it was decided that it should be twenty years and tbs, because there was murder. So I find these two examples, I hope that the Minister understands this, and does not support the proposal to go up to 25 years. Can the Minister understand my questions and that criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u103	I could understand that, if that were the only reason. But it's not. I started with the fact that the main reason is that the legislator in the original law was a long time ago, in 1886 it deliberately said: murder and manslaughter are crimes that are so close together that the difference in the maximum possible punishments must be very small. That difference was five years. Murder was later, in recent times, raised from 20 to 30 years. Manslaughter didn't go along with that, so that hole is just huge. I have the feeling that a majority here agrees that that hole is too big. I think we've closed that hole and we'll find each other in it. But now the question is: 'I got that question, too, whether it should be 18, 20 or 25 years.' With what is now before us, we say: go, because those actions are so close together and there is no difference in actual implementation, back to the original intent and keep it at five years difference. In addition, comments from society and judges have been made in the past that there would be more room for manoeuvre. There's more to it than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u104	Fortunately, the Minister is not bringing up this motion, of which I myself have referred to history. The Minister of Justice and Security wanted to come up with a proposal himself at the time. At that time, the VVD Group in the Lower House considered it necessary to file a motion for 25 years, for example. That motion was not supported by the CDA, for according to the CDA it did not give a pass at that time. Fortunately, the Minister does not mention the history of this motion, because that would not, of course, bear this proposal. But if we agree that the penalty gap is too large now, the question remains as to why, according to the Minister, it should be 25 years, if no examples can actually be given, other than the two I have just mentioned, which the Minister also mentioned. In those examples, the judge said that it really hits that maximum sentence, or the prosecution said: well, I would have demanded 25 years, so do something, legislator, and come to 25 years. I didn't hear that signal. Well, raise the penalty. But not: come to 25 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u105	I'll get to that later, but it really has to do with the fact that I don't think the difference between murder and manslaughter should be that big. That is also the proposal I am trying to support here. Five years is, I think, really justified. I'll get to that. If I may, I would first like to address one more question from Mrs van der Plas, which is a little outside my files, but which is important. After that, I can go straight to purpose and necessity. Mr Van Nispen could then become completely convinced. Or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u107	Mrs van der Plas said: is it perhaps an option to name the bill after Hümeyra when it is adopted; is the Minister prepared to investigate it in consultation with the family? If I may say that from my role, perhaps that is not entirely appropriate.... I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that everyone has actually called Hümeyra, because I think we all remember it very well, especially when we were preparing for the debate, what a terrible case that was and what we felt about it. So I also appreciate that this question has been asked. I also think it is a sympathetic proposal. I suggest I see what I can do with it. I do not know at all whether that will work in a legislative proposal, so whether you can name it after someone, and indeed whether it will then be appreciated. I will promise Mrs van der Plas that I will look into that. If there's an option for that, I'll pulse or be appreciated. Then I come to the point and the need, including the questions that were specific over the 25 years. It was one of Mrs Mutluer's questions. Mr Van Nispen just brought it up in his interruption. As has been said, the increase in the maximum sentence from manslaughter to 25 years in prison reduces the difference from the maximum temporary sentence for murder to 5 years. This is part of the absolute difference in criminal threat that originally existed. That is an appropriate expression of the seriousness of manslaughter. In this connection, it plays a role that manslaughter by tightening up the evidence requirements... That is one of the elements that I would like to add to Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Mutluer: in 2012 the evidence requirements for murder were actually tightened. That's what the Supreme Court said about higher demands on evidence of murder. Actually, that's what makes the judge more likely to fall back on manslaughter, because it's become much harder to prove it. That, too, is a reason to say that the gap is between 15 and 30 or very large and that it can better be returned to the original intention of 5 years difference. All these elements are justified by the proposal to bring them to 25. I'm going to continue with the little folder of utility and necessity, if you don't mind, and then I have some elements that touch on this. Mr De Jong said that punishment has a broader purpose than retaliation, so what good is an increase in the penalty limit? It is true that the imposition of penalties serves several purposes. The purpose of punishment is not only to retribution of the seriousness of the offence and the culprit's fault, but also special and general prevention are important. In response to what Mr De Jong has said on this subject, I would like to point out that in the case of manslaughter, retaliation and deterrents are certainly at the forefront. This is quite a criminal offense. This is a very serious crime with irreversible consequences. Precisely then, retaliation and a deterrent effect are crucial. The proposed maximum penalty increase therefore reflects the gravity of the life crime. It remains for the judge, who has to decide in a specific case, to decide which punishment is appropriate. This bill has absolutely nothing to do with that. Mr De Jong asked on what information the Minister bases the assumption that the social view on punishments has changed. Is the rise terrifying? Is the changed view sufficient for the increase? I base the changed social view on the criminality of life crimes on the observations of the shock that went through society in the death of Hümeyra. As I have just said, I believe that we have been able to put forward once again, in the course of preparing this debate, how intense that was and how the whole of society felt about it. This feeling is reflected in the rising average prison sentences imposed by judges. For example, in choosing to increase, judges considered the penalty limit too low in some cases because of the terrible circumstances in which the manslaughter was committed. I just mentioned the example from 2016. The cabinet represents a society that takes these views seriously. I therefore believe that the indignation and the call for higher penalties should be reflected in an average heavier punishment and that this view, along with other reasons for this legislative proposal, justifies the increase. A high penalty is also intended to prevent the commission of criminal offences. Mr Van Nispen asks how many more examples there are of cases where the penalty ceiling proved to be tight. Mr Van Nispen is right that we do not get that on our plate every week. One concrete example is known from the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court, which I mentioned. It is good to realise that the maximum penalty for manslaughter is intended for the most serious forms of the life crime and that this bill has a broader objective, as I have just indicated. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen also asked what the judge of the judiciary is about the bill and whether there is a need for that increase. In its consultation opinion, the Court of Justice approved the legislative proposal. In its opinion, the Public Prosecutor stresses that the current penalty limit of 15 years in the case of serious cases of manslaughter is considered too restrictive in practice. Sometimes it is not legally possible to prove murder, I have already mentioned the stricter requirements for it and it is proven that manslaughter is very close to murder. I think Mrs van der Plas mentioned an example of this. In that case, a high penalty should be possible and imposed. Mrs Koekkoek asks whether we should look more closely at the qualification of murder. Not as far as I'm concerned. With the 2012 ruling to which I just referred, and subsequent rulings, the Supreme Court has drawn closer to the original intention of the legislator in the criterion of premeditated council. This case-law does not give us any reason to look at the qualification of murder, because it has been expressly considered. What matters is that there are no major differences between the two life crimes in terms of the manner of execution or motive. Both crimes can be equally serious in their severity. In the past, therefore, there was a limited gap between the two life crimes. That was five years, I just reported it. As has been said, that gap is now much and much larger, while nothing has changed in the relationship between the two crimes, which would justify a greater gap in penalties. That's just not the issue. This bill corrects that discrepancy. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question from Mrs Bikker in this folder. She asks: why an increase to 25 years and how does it fit into the broader legal system? She referred to Article 288a, which deals with manslaughter for terrorist purposes. The answer to the question on necessity is similar to the previous answers, including from the SP. In my opinion, the increase in the penalty ceiling to 25 years fits into the broader legal system. In the case of manslaughter for a terrorist purpose, Article 288a, the gravity of the sentence justifies that this manslaughter variant has the same criminal threat as murder, i.e. life imprisonment or temporary imprisonment of up to 30 years. The legislative proposal reduces the difference from the maximum temporary prison sentence for murder to the original difference between them. The difference with the maximum penalty for manslaughter for a terrorist purpose is therefore in line with that. That was the first folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u108	Excuse me. I see Mrs Koekkoek has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u109	I fully understand what the Minister says about the qualification of murder and the reference to the statements in 2006 and 2012. But my question referred to the context that had been put, namely that there are already aggravating circumstances, which also have different degrees in manslaughter. Originally, there was a difference between murder and manslaughter. The underlying question is whether we are not reducing the difference with this bill. We are talking about the sliding scale that was mentioned earlier in the debate: are we getting on the right track? We're gonna punish manslaughter harder, but is that the line you have to pull to get back to the original intent?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u110	That is what I am trying to explain and support. A number of years ago, it was decided here that we would increase the sentence for murder from 20 years to 30 years. It wasn't said back then that we're adding manslaughter. That's when a huge hole was created. Now we say, according to the same system, that we return it to the original difference. All the other elements that Mrs Koekkoek rightly referred to, she also had a few other questions, but I will come back to that later. They stay in the same relationship. You're just making the difference between manslaughter and murder just as small as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u111	So, if I understand the Minister correctly, it's a numerical difference between manslaughter and murder. But I don't think that's what the underlying reason for distinguishing between these two different crimes is. That is why I referred to the context of my question. We can talk long and wide about when something's bad, but there's a reason there's a difference between manslaughter and murder. It goes beyond the statement that there must be a five-year difference at all times, in 1800 and also in 2022. There's a deeper thought behind that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u112	That's right. That's what I started. The deeper thought is the fact that you have to be able to prove in one crime premeditated and not in the other. Furthermore, there is no difference in the motive or implementation at all. As several MPs pointed out, it is in that sense an irreversible crime, where the difference is whether you can prove premeditatedly or not. Now these demands are even higher, so we see that judges often come to the conclusion that murder cannot be proven, because the premeditation is not proven. Then one falls back on manslaughter and then falls back from 30 years to 15 years. I don't think that's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u113	Then I think we'll come back to the beginning of the circle. The Supreme Court has decided for a reason that the burden of proof becomes heavier when it comes to murder. It's a lot to convict someone to murder. That is why we deliberately included another crime in the code, manslaughter, because we as a society consider it important that there is a difference between that and that. That's where my question came in. Now, are we gonna get on the right track and look at the right crime scene? Or should we note that it is problematic that murder is difficult to prove and perhaps we should continue to work on intermediate steps or other objectionable circumstances, instead of punishing manslaughter more severely? Do we not do more justice to the system of criminal law, which really goes beyond the simple: there must always be 5 years difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u114	I really think that's the opposite. It has never been deliberately said by the legislator: that hole must be so big. Murder has been raised from 20 to 30 years, and manslaughter hasn't gone along with that. But it's not like there's been a law that says we're gonna have manslaughter for 15 years. So what we are actually doing with this, as far as I am concerned, is correcting it and aligning it with the original intention of the legislator. It is, of course, entirely true, as Mrs Koekkoek says, that there is a reason why you have to make extra effort, let me put it this way, but that is a little too short to prove a murder, but then there is still the five years difference. That's not nothing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u115	The Minister's answer raises two questions to me. I will begin with my first question, Mr President, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u116	Wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u117	Sounds good to me. This question relates in particular to the subject of penalties of 25 years or 20 years? In this Chamber, I do feel a support for that increase in punishment, in order to make that balance better. But it is not clear to me how to assess the advice of the Dutch Bar Association, the NOvA, and the NVvR. They clearly indicate that it should actually be 20 years. How does the Minister view that? What is her argument for not following these opinions?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u118	In its opinion, the Court of Justice endorsed the proposal. That also exists. In its opinion, the Public Prosecutor has stressed that 15 years is in any case considered too limited. In the cases we have just argued that the Supreme Court should be in line with the legislator's intention in 1886, when the difference of five years was maintained. So there are also other very wise advices that say: make that difference for 5 years. 30 minus 5 is 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u119	That still doesn't make it very clear to me why we're not doing anything with those other advices. I know what you're saying. Perhaps we should not have this discussion, but ultimately we should consider whether or not we are following the amendment. Then I'll go to my second question, with your permission, Mr. Chairman. It has to do with the prevention component. We have indeed made a contribution in this respect. We have also asked a question about this, namely how the Minister sees the prevention section of this bill. In the case of manslaughter, there is no premeditation. There is often impulsive action. So I repeat my question: will a higher penalty limit stop people from committing manslaughter? How am I supposed to see that preventative in this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u120	One more look back on Mrs Mutluer's first question. She said nothing was done with the advice of the NOvA and the NVvR. That advice has been weighed down. But there were other advices. I hope I have been able to justify what has now been the weighting and why that has been the weighting. Prevention is a very important point. I'll come back to that later. But, of course, that has different elements. At all, we are talking about serious crime here. Then prevention is actually a very large part. I know that Mrs Mutluer does not mean that in this context, because this is now specifically about one law, but it is good to say that we all know here that we are now discussing one legislative proposal, one of which I believe was that Mr Van Nispen said that it is about changing a number. So that's very clear, when we all know there's a lot of prevention behind it. How do you even prevent people from making mistakes like that? Let's just say that we all pay a lot of attention to that element, but not in this legal treatment. Next, Mrs Mutluer says: do higher penalties contribute to people thinking: well, am I not going to do that? In the case of manslaughter, I think you can assume that, as I said in the direction of Mr De Jong, it certainly contributes to a deterrent effect. Mrs Mutluer is right about that. There'll be impulsive acts in between. There'll be a lot of things in between. There will also be acts of manslaughter in which premeditation could not be proved, but which might have come very close. So there are all kinds of gradations. But it has a deterrent effect, I think, for sure. At the same time, when he's in detention, someone can't do anything. That is another subject, but I will come back to it shortly because I know that your Chamber has dealt with it in detail last year. That's also preventative. Last year, we agreed to do much more to re-socialize while people are in detention, to prevent people from re-occurring again. I believe that this contributes to all these elements.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u121	The Minister has not convinced me enough on two points. One is legal practice. Actually, it's hardly happened that judges sit all the way at the top of those 15 years, and that pinches. When we look at the investigations of the WODC, we see that a maximum of twelve years is imposed. That is what I would like to hear from the Minister. But more importantly, how to prevent us from getting into a new patchwork in the Penal Code around the penalty ceilings. Because when we look at the life crimes, it is now said: murder is leading at 30 years and then five years goes away, because it was in 1886 and now it has to be. But when we talk about the slave trade in Article 274 and Article 275, are we going to relate it to murder and to what it was like in 1886? Do we have to look at all these other life crimes? Because if someone was killed on a slave ship, you can hardly imagine it, but our Code of Criminal Law is still talking about it.The penalty is fifteen years for the one who was on that slave ship the skipper or the sailor. That's a life crime. How does the Minister see that? I honestly feel like we're making some kind of new patchwork blanket out of the Code of Criminal Law. We cut out one thing and say, that must be five years different from murder. But I'd like to have a firmer argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u122	I really do not agree with the argument. As far as I am concerned, the purpose of the law is to adapt it to society and not to the other way around. The moment you see that happens, as happened with murder, I find it very wise to see what we see in practice. The Court of Justice agrees with the legislative proposal in the consultation opinion, and the Public Prosecutor states that it is indeed too limited from time to time. A few years ago, we did the sentence for murder from 20 to 30 years. You then have to look consistently at what that means in practice. We hear from the practice sounds that more space here could be desirable. If you keep that in place, I think it's maintaining a random patchwork blanket. If Mrs Bikker sees any other elements, we will look at them together. I couldn't agree more. Fine. But you can't say: the law is the law and it never changes. If the law changes, then you also have to look at what other articles and offences are associated with it and what we can do to bring them back into balance. That's what we do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u123	Now the Minister is making a caricature of my contribution and I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u124	I really didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u125	That's good to hear. I have made it very clear, also in my contribution, that I see the penalty hole and that it was a big step for the proposers Buma, Wolfsen and Griffith to go to those 30 years. That's all understandable. I have also signed the amendment to go to 20 years. But I'm referring to legal practice. So far we have seen that rarely 15 years are imposed when it comes to manslaughter. I'm just asking for a basis, including quantitatively, for the number of lawsuits where that's tricky. The Minister may have had all judgments passed at the Ministry of Justice on manslaughter and can provide a quantitative basis. Let me give you an example: otherwise, in the case of all kinds of crimes, you can ask this question again, which we have said in the past: this is a system of penalty ceilings and not a single crime that we take out. I see the hole and I want to contribute to looking at how we can do that responsibly, but I also want to have a story when I look at those other crimes. Honestly, I think that when we look at justice, it is also important that we have a good story to tell them, otherwise nothing changes in the sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u126	If the Council of Justice agrees to the legislative proposal, I think we are looking very closely at how we can bring our laws closer to practice and closer to what is called for in society. That's what I meant by "to change." That's what we do. Perhaps a few years ago you should have considered this very thoroughly when the penalty for murder was raised. What does that mean for cohesion? I wasn't there and honestly I don't know that whole context. Well, at least I know that one a little bit, but I wasn't there. Perhaps that would have been a good time to assess that coherence. Were you there? Yeah? Well, maybe in the second term we can hear how that went. But here's what's important. I do not understand what I meant, because Mrs Bikker and I are not very used to disagree very much, but sometimes we are a little bit and then you get these kind of conversations that Mrs Bikker says: I also see that hole, so I look for ways to close it in a way that I can explain it for myself, for my environment and for justice. But then I think it is for me that the proposal before us is the most pure and logical to get as close as possible to the original intention of these two measures of punishment, because murder and manslaughter are so incredibly close together. It's just one small thing that makes the difference: premeditated. Of course, that's terrible. I call it a little thing now, but I mean the difference is very small. The motive and the implementation: all these elements can then be exactly the same. Only, is there premeditation and can you prove it? Then I find it really justified to say: five years of difference is good to explain. Then I still think ten years is too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u127	But the minister doesn't take the following with him. Even if you have ten years of difference, the penalty may still be higher than the penalty limit of twenty years in terms of punitive circumstances. That is contrary to the situation where we go to 25 years, because then you can't even give that full penalty limit, because you can impose up to 30 years. So there are many more hooks and eyes to the law systematic. That's what the Minister has to look at, and not just at this crime. I find this complicated in the support of the Ministry and also in the support of the ministers of this minister, but I do not want to hold her over too much. But let's go back in time, the time when fellow Knops was there, when the whole sentence was revised. Korthals Altes didn't let anything look at the whole thing for nothing and asked for advice on it. The fact that the Erudite Members of Parliament have come to a different weight in relation to murder has not really caused any problems for years. Now we're gonna light something up. Then my concern is simply that the Minister stands for that whole system and must really do justice to it, that we create a patchwork and that we say over and over again at another crime: this must go up, because we have once started to commit murder at 30 years. I think that would be the wrong reasoning. It is absolutely a matter of social justice. That's what we need to look at. I couldn't agree more. But that must be well-founded. To be honest, I find that lean when we look at the quantitative justification and how many lawsuits this has involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u128	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u129	All the elements mentioned by Mrs Bikker have been taken into account, for example, the worsening circumstances. Of course, this also applies to other crimes. It's not like it's just gonna be a problem now for these 25 years. I don't think we're going to be very much in agreement on this. I think that for a difference of five years there is a great deal of support, as I have done. I don't think that's true for a ten-year difference. So, if you ask me, I find it more difficult to explain. I fall back on the system as it was, on the intention of the legislator as it was, but also on the practice as it is. Those crimes are so close together. I don't have any justification for ten years, except that 25 years is a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u130	Then we arrive at Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u131	I really disagree with the Minister. That could just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u132	It happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u133	I thank Mr Bikker, because I think she has made it quite clear what the objection is. I hear the Minister say a few times: that is not what we see in practice. But it is precisely when I look at practice that I see that in very limited cases the penalty is small. I also hear the appeal of the prosecution and of a single court in a single case. We must also listen to that; that is important. At the same time, we can see that in all the other cases, the penalty does not come down. In fact, the Dutch Association for Justice indicates: we are working on this work every day and can live well from that practice with an increase to twenty years. So if the Minister is talking about practice, I would ask her to reflect on this particular element.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u134	I may miss the question a little bit, but the Justice Council has also agreed to this bill. I'm sorry, you're saying something outside the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u135	I was talking about the Association.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u136	Oh, excuse me. If the discussion ultimately falls back on the question of 20 or 25 years, then that is what we are talking about. But I really think that and falling back on the intention and the seriousness of manslaughter and how close it is to murder... I honestly do not understand the basis for that hole of ten years. So here, I think we're fundamentally different. I repeat the arguments, which I find well-founded, why you say: go to 25 years; make that difference small. There is a difference, we all agree on that. But if you make the difference small, it comes close to the point. The fact that a comment was made in 2016 from the point of view of practice, I do not think there is anything to put aside. Neither does Mrs Ellemeet. The D.A. also says he can use more space. I think that is what we are, I hope, very much in agreement with all of us, perhaps minus Mr Markuszower, that it is very good that it is then up to the judge to see how you fill in that space or not. I have every confidence in that, too. I just want to offer that space, so in very serious cases where the judge now says "I should have had that space," that space is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u137	In that sense, it is not surprising that we are faced with a dilemma, because I think that is our job. On the one hand, the Minister as legislator and we as co-legislator must standardize. That is our task: we have a view and we pour it into laws. At the same time, we also have an expensive duty to listen very carefully to what is given to us from practice. And that's where the minister and I are making a different weighting. If I wanted to be a little faint, I would say: I think the Minister is a little selective. But we're gonna make another weighing. The Minister attaches to a number of signals which I, too, consider to be very important. At the same time, I am looking at the practice and I see that it is very limited that the current level of punishment is inadequate and I hear that this practice calls for an increase to 20 years. Maybe we're just not gonna get out of this. I think we're both trying to make a careful weighing, but as I sum up now, I'm making a different weighting than the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u138	The Minister. You'll be able to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u139	Yeah, we're definitely gonna make a different deal. For precisely for that very limited number of times that a judge says or thinks he would have wanted there to be more space, we now offer that space as far as I am concerned. We do not have a minimum for punishment in our country, the judge can always fill it out himself. I really think there's no justification why manslaughter and murder would have a difference for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u140	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u141	I don't know if you should call this a point of order, but I think this is kind of silly. I am really trying to conduct the debate carefully and the Minister is now saying that I would not be in favour of an increase. I think I'm just saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u142	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u143	For the exceptional cases where the current level of punishment is not sufficient, it would be sufficient for 20 years. Mr Van Nispen has already given examples of this. There is no case in which we should be over 20 years old. I try to listen as carefully as possible to the signals we are getting from practice and I draw the conclusion that these twenty years will be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u144	I didn't mean to be silly about that. Let me leave it at that. But I'm still looking for the basis for a ten-year gap. That is the proposal of Members of Parliament who say they think 25 years too many. It's possible. But I'm still looking for evidence as to why a ten-year gap, which means an ultimate sentence of twenty years, would be justified, when you know that the crimes are incredibly close to each other, when you know that it was the intention of the legislator, when you know that nothing has changed to that intention and you know that since 2012 murder has received heavier evidence demands. So I do not really understand the difference between these ten years in the debate. We can continue to disagree on this, and perhaps I should accept that. At least I tried to explain why I think it should be close together. At least that was my attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u145	This is a legal procedure, so I'll give you all the room. I do notice that the interruptions are beginning to look like second instalments. You can, of course, reach a conclusion in the second term. You can have reflections again, change other arguments. But you're really supposed to ask the Minister briefly. So also to you, Mrs Ellemeet: a short question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u146	Actually, the Minister asks a question: I don't understand it yet, what is it? I want to answer that, because it is a fair question. My concern is this. You have three goals, the criminal targets, and one of them is the standard confirmation. Then you talk about what lives in society and how you translate it into legislation. I think you should reason the other way around. If we set a penalty of 25 years, we'll standardize it. Mrs Koekkoek also mentioned this in her speech. Then we set a new standard and we will increase the pressure from society to use the entire space of those 25 years more intensively. That's my concern. That is the important difference between 20 years and 25 years for me. By making it possible for those 25 years, we will standardize and encourage the application of those maximum sentences; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u147	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u148	At least we'll get a little closer together when it comes to sharing arguments. That's okay, I guess. Fine, from standards; I get that. I shall come back to that later, because there were concrete questions about it. But precisely because these crimes are so close to each other, I really think that we differ fundamentally in terms of standards. I find it very difficult to explain why it should be ten years apart. Because these crimes are so close to each other, I find it normal from our point of view, from the point of view of society, from this house that is close to each other. Then it's up to the judge. We agree on that anyway. I fully assume that it will then fill that out independently. We agreed on that, but it is good to emphasise that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u149	Clear. Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u150	I can broadly follow the Minister's argument. There is one point I am somewhat concerned about: the arbitrariness that arises from social pressure. We have now said that we want to bring the penalty for manslaughter and murder closer together. The Minister proposes five years. I do not see it happening in the short term, but theoretically in the future we could go to a situation where we as a society feel that the penalty for murder is again too low and in which we raise it. I would ask the Minister to allow the penalty for manslaughter and murder to always go hand in hand with each other in any future discussion. The Minister can promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u151	One more time that last part? Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u152	That, in the future, even if I do not see it happening in the short term, we will have a debate, a debate about penalties for manslaughter and murder, we will always let that go hand in hand, let that go hand in hand with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u153	Neither one of us can look forward in time how long we stand here like this. It seems to me to be a sensible proposal that, if that were to be the case, it should at least be treated in a coherent and balanced manner, as it was once intended, and that I should try to bring it back into balance. At least that makes sense to me, even if you look at the rather complicated debate we have here. It's better to do that in conjunction, so you can monitor the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u154	I'll take a quick look at the time, too. We agreed not to make it too late. I have heard the Minister speak for 45 minutes, twelve minutes of which answer the written questions. So I suggest that we give the Minister the opportunity to answer all the questions and then we do another round of questions from the Members of Parliament. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I go to the second folder: effectiveness, execution, which subjects a bit mixed up. I'll start with Mrs. Mutluer. It asks whether the increase will ensure that higher penalties are imposed. That's what we just shared: what's that gonna look like now? I believe that the substantial increase in the penalty ceiling could mean that, on average, judges can and will impose higher penalties in the event of a manslaughter conviction. That's how it works, we've seen in the past. After all, the level of the penalty ceiling is an important benchmark. That's why some people say it's too high, but at least that's how it works. That's an important benchmark for the prosecution's demand and the court's imposition. Mrs Mutluer asked whether I would also like to go into consultation with the State's Attorney's Office. I don't think there's any reason to consult with the D.A. right now. Let us first see if this law is passed and how it will be arrested afterwards. In the explanatory memorandum to this bill, it has been promised that three years after the maximum penalty rate has entered into force, we will evaluate whether manslaughter is on average more severely punished. Mrs. Bikker isn't here right now, so I'll do it in a minute. She had another question about more evaluation or later, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u156	I see Mr Knops has a question. He was present to raise the penalty for murder. That wasn't in 1886, I think, but a little later; he's not in the Chamber that long. A short question for you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u157	I can keep him very short. The minister says there's no need to talk to the D.A. That's very special. You'll come up with a bill. That's what the Chamber's gonna decide. There's gonna be new frameworks. And then the Minister thinks it's all gonna go on its own and wait for the evaluation. That can't be entirely the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u158	That was the question before me from Mr Knops. He and Mrs Mutluer had asked to talk to the prosecutor and the judiciary to bring the directives into line. Premeditated, the prosecution and the judiciary eventually listen to the legislator. We are trying to get somewhere here with each other to send a clear signal. There is no criminal prosecution directive of the Public Prosecutor for the crime of life crimes, such as manslaughter. Nor have any reference points been drawn up for manslaughter. That is one of the reasons why I do not see any reason to enter into consultation with the Public Prosecutor and the Court of Justice. Actually, that was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u159	Please continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u160	Good. I'm sure there'll be another afterburner shortly, but now I'm going to go on to Mr Van Nispen. He asks: does raising the maximum sentence not lead to disappointment among relatives, who are already suffering a great deal and hope for the highest possible punishment? How does that work? That's a fair question. I am not afraid of that, because I expect that the substantial increase in the penalty ceiling will lead to an average sentence being imposed by the judge in the event of a manslaughter conviction. Of course, Mr Van Nispen is right that this will not always be 25 or 20 years in all cases, but we now also know what the maximum penalty is. It is not always imposed, so you must continue to communicate well and explain it properly. That is one of the wishes of these spokesmen I have heard in committee debates, which I will pass on on on their behalf to the judiciary and the public prosecutor. That is what we agreed on in another debate, but of course that is also true here. Mr Kuzu and Mr De Jong asked whether the social and social consequences for those convicted were taken into account. The social and social consequences of increasing the legal penalty limit in the case of manslaughter for the convicted person have been weighed against, among other things, the interests of society, victims and survivors. Those are the interests that have been taken into account. Through the entry into force of the Penalty and Protection Act, time in detention is now better exploited by working on behavior change and reintegration from day one. So that offers opportunities to help someone get their life back on track and make sure that someone doesn't go so badly again. The fact that a larger proportion of a long term prison sentence is actually spent in prison contributes to a better balance between the two objectives: retaliation and the reduction of repeated crime. Mr De Jong and, in my opinion, Mrs Koekkoek asked whether this would make society safer. The higher penalty limit obviously gives the judge more room to impose an appropriate penalty in manslaughter cases. It also underlines the current tendency for more severe punishment by the courts. We, as legislators, are sending out the message that high prison sentences are also appropriate and necessary. The impact of the bill is therefore that higher penalties can be imposed for manslaughter. That goes without saying. That is, as far as I am concerned, a valuable impact. It does, in my opinion, provide more security in our society, because there will be more and more room for retribution, where this is not possible especially in the most serious cases. The signal is that life crimes in any form are severely rejected. A higher threat of punishment also has a strong deterrent effect. Mrs Bikker said: what does this increase mean for probation and for rehabilitation? I've just said that a little bit. The effect of the increase is different from, for example, punishing and protecting the Law. I don't know if Mrs Bikker meant that or not. I thought she meant, "You'll be in jail longer by punishing and protecting the law." It has recently been dealt with by my predecessor with your Chamber. You're in prison longer, but from day one, we're working on resocialization. That will be the same in this case. This means that we opt for a more effective way of executing the sentence. You invest more in how someone eventually comes out again and how you prevent recidivism. The time in detention is therefore better used. The parole board is closely involved in this. I think it would be good to say that to Mrs Bikker. This involvement of the probation will continue with a conditional release. This proposal is also subject to probation where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u161	I'd like a brief clarification. I myself voted in favour of that law in a different capacity, as a senator, so I do not need to go over the pros and cons with the Minister now. What matters to me is that more people will sit longer when this bill comes into force. This means a greater workload for the probation and for other employees at DJI, because from day one you start resocialization. I just don't see that in the financial annex to the bill. It's a performance question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u162	Yeah, clear. The expectation is not that it will make such a difference on such a large scale, but we can perhaps agree that I will pass this on to my colleague for Legal Protection. He is always in conversation with the parole board about this kind of bill to see what this means and what they can mean in it. We will take this concretely with them. This will come back in one of the many debates with my colleague Weerwind. Mr Van Nispen asked: what is the situation with regard to the promised improvements in business... Mr Van Nispen...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u163	... apologized.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u164	Okay. I'm going on. I'm sure he'll hear it back in a different way. He asked for improvements in cases like Hümeyra's. How are victims of stalking better protected? The Violence Programme is nowhere to be found, and the Security Development Agenda has laid a key foundation for the approach to stalking in recent years. It has been realised, among other things, that the exchange of information between the police and Safe Home has improved, that matters of domestic violence and child abuse, including stalking, have been taken into account. and that cooperation between police, prosecutors, probation, the Council of Children's Protection and Safe Home has been significantly strengthened, thus enabling them to better protect victims and tackle perpetrators together. There's a lot more to be said about that. Mrs Ellemeet specifically asked what more can the Minister do to prevent relational violence? I have a similar answer to that at the moment. This law is specifically about something else, but I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Ellemeet that I will be coming up with a letter on this shortly. I'm saying soon, but at least it's gonna be for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u165	That is a broad understanding of "soon."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u166	Yeah, but I saw in my head the officials working in the back room all of a sudden startled. It seems to me appropriate to go into the latest state of play in dealing with relational violence, stalking and honor-related violence. I think it suits me, as a new ruler, to send a letter in conjunction, including what would be my follow-up steps. I think it would be a good idea to agree on that. Then Mrs Bikker mentioned the evaluation after three years. I had just started talking about it, but then she was out of the room for a moment, so I'll come back to that. She says: can you evaluate well? Shouldn't you choose another term or arrange it in a different way? The expectation is that at that time there would be enough information available to make a proper assessment, that there would be enough court rulings to form a judgment. Should the evaluation then give rise to another evaluation or a repeat report some time later, we will certainly do so. At any rate, the expectation is that after three years we will be able to say a few things about this with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question, and then the amendments and motions for resolutions. The last question for me is from Mrs Koekkoek. She says: is an increase in the penalty limit of 10 years proportionate, given the difference between the penalty limit and the penalties imposed in practice? In this way, I will go back to the circle of how this debate began, but so did Mrs Koekkoek. As I have said before, perhaps it is a good thing to say that once again, the legislative proposal has three main objectives. The legislative proposal aims to restore the manslaughter balance, to underline the tendency for heavier punishment and to provide more room for punishment in the most serious cases of manslaughter. It is perhaps good to emphasise that I do not expect and that I do not intend to impose the maximum penalty all the time. It is not for me to prescribe that to the judge, but I also think that is not what we all expect here. However, I think it is important that the judge should be given that space in practice, so that appropriate penalties can be imposed each time, as has been said, in the most serious cases of manslaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u167	Thank you. Then you have come to the end of your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u168	Yes, I only have the amendments and motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u169	There are two further amendments, but I propose that Mrs Koekkoek also be given the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u170	I would like to go on for a moment at the last thing the Minister said, especially since, at the time the law is interpreted, the Acts can be looked back at to see what was meant to be done. The Minister indicated that it is certainly not intended that the maximum penalty should always be met. Mr Ellemeet has already indicated that the pressure on judges, especially when it comes to serious crimes, is high, including in society. I have also mentioned this in my contribution. That was in eighteen hundred-something less perhaps, because then there were other social media.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u171	There weren't many back then. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u172	I'm sorry, I may be joking, but I honestly think it has to play with the way we look at criminal law now and also in the space we give judges. Judges are therefore now faced with this dilemma, which also rightly belongs to judges. They may be confronted with the option and then they do not want to impose such a high penalty and the way in which it is returned to society. I ask the Minister how she would hand over to the judiciary for that dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u173	I think it is a good thing that Mrs Koekkoek is standing still here, indeed for the Acts, and that we have also spoken this out with each other. Let me add, however, that it is not up to me to prescribe to judges how to deal with them. But that is not what Mrs Koekkoek means either. I think it is very important to note here that I think that they should have that space and that, given the nature of the crime and how close it is to murder, I also think that we should give that space up to 25 years. As Mrs Koekkoek also says, society is changing, social opinion is changing, the way we look at things is changing and the crimes are changing. That's what we were talking about just now. This also changes the legislation and the interpretation of judges. But I think it is very important to underline that no one here expects me to speak for myself, at least let me say that judges will always impose 25 years now. That's what you see now with other maximum punishments. It is not always the case that the maximum penalty is demanded or given, or that everyone expects it to be given. In my view, it is crucial, as we discussed a few weeks ago in the debate on vice, that it can be explained very well why this is happening now and another time something else. That's the way we have to deal with it. As I said, the prosecution and the judges will eventually see what the legislator means here, what we say here, and what we are doing about it. But it's up to them how they act.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u174	Finally, Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u175	I am still missing an answer, namely to my question about the calculating suspect. It's also in the Wet's folder of punishing and protecting, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u176	I understand from Mrs Bikker that it is a subject that has also come back earlier. I find him a little complicated to describe myself, I have to admit. So I didn't quite get what Mrs Bikker wants to hear from me here, but what I have brought with me, hopefully, is that it is important to keep an eye on that here too. As I have heard, she says: you can have the law and have a purpose, but those on whom it is directed, see that and then go to act, work around it and you name it, so take that into account. But other than that, I found him a little difficult to describe.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u177	Mrs Bikker, perhaps you can clarify him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u178	I'm gonna do my best, and then we're gonna see if it gets any easier. The Act of Punishment and Protecting has done the following. Normally, someone with a long sentence after two thirds of the sentence could be released. Now the Law has said punishing and protecting that, especially with a longer sentence, you can get off your sentence for up to two years. Then you will be released on parole, but then we will take a trial course and then you will also be supervised and we will make all kinds of appointments with you as a prisoner. Even if those two years are over and that whole sentence is over, we may still need to keep an eye on you and get you back to parole once in a while. This is very useful for people who have committed a serious crime and sometimes pose a greater risk to society. But it's also quite getting used to in that society when you've been in prison for a long time. You go from that little booth to society. My concern with punishing and protecting that Law, which I still have, was that people, if they've been sitting for a long time, would choose not to go into that parole for the last two years because they'd still get all kinds of sanctions on their pants and they'd be watched for life before they knew it. To be honest, that concern was particularly with sex offenders, where we really know that there can also be mental disorders that people prefer not to have under supervision. So that's where the care is. Precisely because we see that offenders in this type of crime, and also in the case in Rotterdam that we have talked about a lot, really have a certain personality, I just have concerns that there are calculating suspects who escape that supervision. Sorry for the elaborate explanation. It was a technical law and it is a technical question, but I want to be kept very well on the wrist, because I would hate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u179	Now I understand him a little more clearly, I think, and I also definitely see the link to punishing and protecting the Law. As I said, this has also come through, but Mrs Bikker has explained it better. The law is also reviewed after five years, and this is really an element. So I think it's good to have it addressed in this treatment in that way too. 'Cause I hear what she's saying. It's gonna be in that evaluation soon. In any case, the law is being evaluated, and these concerns are an important part of this. So I think it's good to let it land there too, so in that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u180	Clear. We are going to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u181	I have here the amendment to item No. 9, by Mrs Ellemeet, Mr De Jong and Mrs Bikker. We have talked about this in detail. That amendment asks us to take the 25 years back to 20 years. I must discourage this amendment, because of everything we have just shared. I hope that the authors will agree that I do not repeat all these arguments, because then we shall be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u182	The amendment in part No. 9: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u183	Yeah, I'd advise against that. Then I have here... is this the amendment in part No. Eight? Am I gonna do it the other way around?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u184	Yeah, 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u185	That amendment is from Mr Markuszower, who says that the space of those two years, as Mrs Bikker has just mentioned, will also be completely destroyed. So no parole. I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u186	The amendment in part No. 8: also advised against.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u187	Then I have a motion from Mr Kuzu. I don't have a number. Oh, it hasn't been filed yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u188	No, we'll have to file it first. This is a smooth treatment!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u189	This one's too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u190	Yes. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. Thanks to the Minister. I'll take a look at the members. Is there a need for a second term? I hear yes, so I'll just start with the first speaker. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From this place of course also congratulations to, again, colleague Mutluer. We used to be colleagues, too. I thank the Minister for her reply. It will not surprise the Chamber that the VVD can follow this answer. I have to say that sometimes I find it difficult, because when people say "find the legal practice," who are you talking about? I challenge colleagues to consider this in future debates. Are you talking about the D.A., the lawyers, the justice system, the professors or old writings? I always find it complicated when people say: find legal practice. But let me involve it on my own in the second term: what is important for the VVD? It has been very, very much about the Hümeyra case and the judgment of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden court. I would like to hear a further clarification from the Minister. The VVD sees it this way: before the 2012 Supreme Court's famous judgment, there were all sorts of cases in which the judge came to the conclusion that there was murder. They're just to be looked up. Let me mention that of the 2009 Amsterdam Court of Justice, the 2010 Den Bosch court or the 2010 Amsterdam court. These are matters in which you could now establish quite simply: with the new criterion that would be manslaughter. The result is still the same. The facts are the same. Only the intention was probably not to be properly determined. I ask the Minister about these matters, so outside the two cases mentioned. All these things would be different now. Isn't that also a reason to make the maximum sentence for manslaughter more proportionate to the maximum sentence for murder? It is much more important than the two issues that have been raised today. I think that the Minister is also somewhat lacking in the government by naming only those two cases. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come up with what we're doing here. I think we are laying down the legislative framework. The judiciary can do that, and we do that. In the context of criminal law, we add a criminal threat to that. That's what we're doing. No one else does. That's what we do. I would like to hear a further clarification from the Minister. If in the Netherlands a year and a half imprisonment is imposed in the case of manslaughter, because that is what is going on, then has the VVD really seen that that is quite strong for Dutch concepts? Mr. Chairman. Let me give you an example and then I'll finish. Harmful assault, Article 302 of the Criminal Code, stands for eight years. Eight years! The point of reference for the case law is one year. So in our system, the prosecution is higher in the directive, while the case law and the criminal threat are elsewhere. I would like to hear from the Minister about this, because that is important for my group. Isn't the signal we're sending with this? Isn't it true that in the case of manslaughter, there's a longer prison sentence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u192	Thank you, Mr. Ellian. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Mutluer on behalf of the PvdA, still.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will simply try to be brief, because in the end we will simply have to consider whether we agree to the law and at least to the amendments that have been tabled. The PvdA indicated earlier that it was in favour of an increase, also in connection with the Hümeyra case. I must say that I myself am struggling with the Minister's answer and the justification for dissuading the amendment from 25 years to 20 years. Mr. Chairman. I had a question mark myself. This had to do with my question as to whether a higher penalty limit could lead to higher penalties being imposed. I have heard the Minister say very emphatically: I think so; I expect that this may indeed lead to higher criminal requirements. I have indicated that we find it rather complicated, because, as far as I am concerned, high penalties should be applied to the most serious forms of manslaughter. In fact, this law should allow the judge to look for room in a number of other cases. Finally, I come to stalking. Minister, I think you just made a commitment to that. You'd like to hold on to that. I do not rule out the possibility that we, by the way, with several parties, will see whether we can bring this matter into the Chamber after we have received your letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u194	Thank you. You're almost done, but Mr Knops has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u195	I have one question, a little along the lines of what Mr Van Nispen said earlier. The motion tabled in February 2020 was supported by the PvdA. The CDA did not support that motion, because we believe that you should not change laws with motions; that includes legislative proposals, amendments etc. The operative part of the motion contains a very concrete year: 25 years. You didn't have to do that. There is also a colleague of Mrs Mutluer underneath. But I see her contribution today as very critical of the government's argument. Again, we were not in favour of the motion, but the PvdA did. I am therefore curious to see what arguments the Labour Party has received over the last two years in order to distance itself from the original, very concrete, idea in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u196	Mrs Mutluer's contribution is, of course, aligned with her group, including those who supported the motion at the time. We're still behind that, too. In my opinion, the PvdA was one of the forces behind looking at that increase, as a result of the terrible event with Hümeyra, which was simply unacceptable. In this sense, the PvdA is absolutely in favour of raising and balancing the penalty for manslaughter and murder. But we're critical. This also has to do with the practical advice. My colleague Ellian just said: who is the practice? I've read the reports and the letters. I also took the advice of the NOvA and the NVvR. I have asked some critical questions: is it indeed going to lead to prevention and what does it mean for criminal requirements in general? The Minister has given us all kinds of answers, which we take into account when deciding whether or not we are going to vote for the colleagues' amendment. That's the honest answer I can give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u197	If I know Mrs Mutluer, I haven't known her for so long, then I can see that she's operating consistently. I also see that Mr Wolfsen of the Labour Party co-signed Mr Sybrand Buma's 2006 amendment to bring the maximum prison sentence for murder to 30 years. If I go through that line, I can only come to the conclusion that the Labour Party should support the bill as it stands today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u198	But then I would take a good look at the literal text of the motion, because it says "e.g. 25." This leaves room for the PvdA Group to make its own assessment, also in the light of the answers given today by the Minister. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u199	Clear. Thank you, Mrs Mutluer, again. Then Mr. Knops, for your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. It will not be surprising that we wholeheartedly support the response. A call was made to go back in time. 2006 hasn't been that long, but who does she remember? At that time, there were members such as Mr Buma in the Chamber. But also Mr Eerdmans, who was now also registered and then a member of the LPF. He also supported that amendment. At that time, the Law on Punishment and Protection had not yet been amended in such a way that there could not be an early release. At least it is now much more limited than it was then. Then a 20-year prison sentence could actually go to 13 years in practice. There was a social appeal to punish these types of serious crimes more severely. Through the Lower House, therefore through the co-legislator, that appeal has found its way into an amendment of that law. I think it is right to point out, as Mr Kuzu also said, that at the time there was not enough thought about the great gap created by this. In that sense, you should see this legislative amendment as some kind of recovery operation of what was decided at the time. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question, indeed, about the directive of the Public Prosecutor. My information is that there is indeed a directive on criminal proceedings in the event of attempted manslaughter. If this law were to be adopted, it would seem to me that this would have to be translated one-on-one into a new directive of the College of PGs for the Public Prosecutor. So I would like to ask the Minister whether she can confirm that the previous reply, in which she indicated that that would not be the issue and that she would not see any need to discuss that directive, is not entirely correct. Because if it didn't have any effect on the punishments demanded by the prosecutors, by the prosecution, you could say it's a dead law. I would like to give the Minister a more detailed explanation on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u201	Thank you, Mr. Knops. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u202	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the first-term response. We as Chambers, as politicians, do not give punishments. We set the frameworks, and we do so on the basis of the Code of Criminal Law. Today there is indeed a clear law before us on increasing the penalty for manslaughter. In my first term, I spoke about social and social consequences. The Minister said she took it into account. I shall put forward a motion to look at the consequences of these social and social consequences in an international context as well. That is what this motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Law on Penalty and Protection entered into force on 1 July 2021, limiting conditional release to a maximum of two years;]] [[Whereas it is no longer possible for perpetrators of serious crimes to be released on parole after two thirds of their sentence;]] [[calls on the Government, in the interests of public security and morals, to examine, by means of an international competition, the social and social consequences of long prison sentences for convicted persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35871-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u203	I very much agree with the Minister's argument, especially about reducing the penalty gap. In doing so, DENK's confidence in the judiciary is so rocky that we expect judges to always impose an appropriate punishment. I will therefore advise my group, I say to the President, to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u204	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. We shall be discussing each other further, not on this subject. Let's see, Mr. De Jong? No, he doesn't. Mrs Van der Plas for her second term on behalf of the BoerCitizen Movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to be very brief. I'm not filing any motions. I am very pleased that the Minister will at least see if it is possible to mention such a law at all, of course everything in consultation with the family. I would like to hear about this and perhaps the Minister would like to keep me informed. I want to use my time because I've forgotten two things. I made my contribution on behalf of Joost Eerdmans of JA21, who unfortunately could not be here tonight. I forgot to say it in haste, but I put it right on this one. And I forgot to congratulate Mrs Mutluer here on her beautiful maiden speech. I did do it during the handshake, but not here. She showed herself to be combative, and we like it, at least I like it. I wish her every success in the Chamber. I'm sorry I didn't say that congratulations in my speech. It's been blown in, but hopefully I've corrected that on this one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u206	Thank you. Mrs van der Plas has done a good job of correcting two important issues, and that is a credit to her. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Bikker on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to the Minister for her reply. Even if we did not agree, it is a pleasure to debate with this Minister. Mr. Chairman. The penalty limit reflects the seriousness of a crime. That has a number of reasons. It is punitive, it is retaliation, but it is also restoration of the rule of law for society. That weighs heavily on my group, because it is the core task of the government to bring justice. That is why we always have to do this very carefully with each other. And yes, there's too big a gap between murder and manslaughter. Criminal ceilings must remain in proportion to each other. But then it is also good to look at the legal systematic effect. The whole Code of Criminal Law should be linked, especially with life crimes. When I look at the whole thing, I think, frankly, that the legislative systematic weighting of legislative proposals should be improved in future. Nor can the Minister correct all this in the answer here, so that is not a reproach, but a passionate appeal on my part. At the same time, a mirror fits us as a room. I reflected on that in my first term. How do we deal with it as a chamber when we call for something in motions? We have a responsibility in that too. Mr. Chairman. I have criticised the quantitative justification. At the same time, I hear the Minister say very clearly that she will monitor how this will go further in legal practice. She made a commitment about the effect on the calculating suspect. I very much hope that the PVV amendment will not be accepted, because it is actually a huge step in the right direction. It is clear that for the Christian Union the leap to ten years increase the penalty ceiling is very high. I don't know if our wrist stick's reaching that far. That is why I have wholeheartedly co-signed Mrs Ellemeet's amendment. We are going to see what happens during the votes and I am going to discuss it with my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u208	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u209	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is a minister who always challenges to debate. I like that. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for the debate. There is always talk of a new governance culture. I'm just trying to make it small. For me, it means that I really try to listen during a debate. So not that you're totally biased about entering the debate, but that you're also receptive to arguments. It's quite a dilemma we're facing, if I'm being very honest. I fully understand what a number of colleagues are saying about the gap and the sometimes complicated difference between manslaughter and murder and how to deal with it. I am still sticking to the focus for my group, namely the signals we get from practice. Mr Ellian was right to ask for it to be specified. For me, the comments of NOVA and NVvR weigh heavily. Hence my amendment. I would like to make one more point. The Minister mentioned the preventive effect of the bill. She said she expects it to work terrifyingly. You often hear that in the debate, but in a recent article I read that decades of criminological research show that there is no conclusive evidence that harsher punishments have a deterrent function. It's sometimes called too easy. We know it can make a difference, especially with lower penalties, but we are talking about an increase from 15 to 25 years. The question is whether you can say that there is an extra deterrent signal. I wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u210	Thank you. I see a short second-term question from Mr Ellian.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u211	I will be brief, but there are also colleagues who have had five long interruptions. But very briefly. What matters to me is this. In my first year as a Member of Parliament, I have just tried to open the debate, listen to others and let myself be persuaded. I appreciate the fact that you are now saying that it weighs heavily on you, Mrs Ellemeet. Do I understand correctly that you are actually saying that there are signals from legal practice, but it is not the whole field? The prosecution is also part of the same legal practice and the Council of Justice is part of it. They have a different opinion. I think it is important to say, because I was given the impression that you think that the whole legal practice is your opinion. It doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u212	That's why I came back to it. I thought that was a valid point from you, which is why I wanted to specify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u213	I'm glad you understand each other this way. That's a nice way to debate things. Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I understand the Minister can go right through. So I would like to give the Minister the opportunity, I suspect, to assess a motion by Mr Kuzu and perhaps to answer a single question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u214	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the motion. Mr Kuzu and I have come a long way, but we are now at a stage where we are in complete agreement and I think that the motion just read out is a sensible one. The motion gets judgment Chamber. Having said that, I shall return to the first speaker, Mr Ellian. In fact, he mentions two very concrete examples. From his background as a lawyer, as a former lawyer, he can actually say much better than I do why it's so important what we're talking about here. I think we are about the same thing when it comes to why it is so incredibly important that the penalty ceiling be brought into proportion and that this balance is there. So I thank him for those examples. They really had added value for me in tightening up the debate. Ms. Mutluer said she was still looking for the basis of the 20 years or 25 years. I think the debate with Mr Knops was interesting. We'll see what the PvdA does. Mr Knops spoke about the directives. There is a directive when it comes to an attempted manslaughter, but there is no directive when it comes to a completed manslaughter, which sounds very harsh. But I see that Mr Knops also sees that difference. That's why I said it's really different when a life crime is complete. That is why there is no need to discuss this at the moment. Mrs Bikker, Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Koekkoek have stressed their points once again. Others also say: we also see that hole, but we wonder if you fill it out properly in this way. I would particularly like to thank them for trying to share those arguments. I think that is just very important, especially in this kind of debate. I heard. I have included the elements that I can at least apply, however this is adopted. With regard to stricter penalties, I agree with Mrs Ellemeet. As far as I am concerned, it is not necessarily always the key to prevention. Definitely not. That's what I've just been trying to explain. In this case, I think: if you look at the seriousness of the crime, it may have a deterrent effect, but I also know that I will be in debates with Mrs Ellemeet and others in which we will look at each other when a punishment is effective and how you are prevented from being repeated. Then you can come to something else for once. But when I look at the crimes we are talking about tonight, I really think that a deadline as proposed today will really contribute to that. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u215	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-04-20-tweedekamer-15.u216	The amendments tabled and the motion were put to the vote on 10 May. I thank the people who followed the meeting at home, the MPs and the minister. I wish everyone a very pleasant continuation of the evening and a good night's sleep. And be a little nice to each other. I shall now close the meeting.
