ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the debate on continuing abuses in Dutch slaughterhouses. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. Thank you for joining us. We have ten speakers from the Chamber. Everyone has four minutes' speaking time. I would like to be the first to give the floor to Mrs Vestering from the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last summer, with a number of other spokesmen, I visited a large slaughterhouse where 650 pigs are slaughtered per hour: 10,000 animals per day, at one slaughterhouse. There we saw trucks loaded with fearful animals, how hundreds of animals lay waiting in a concrete waiting stand and how around them groups of animals were driven through the corridors to the gas elevator or even chased. You heard the animals protesting. I still hear the screams of the pigs. In those gas cellars, the pigs feel like they're choking and they're unconscious. Then the valve opens on the side of the elevator to dump the animals on the conveyor belt. Their large weak bodies fall on top of each other and clap against the edges of the machines, as if it were nothing. As a member of parliament, we were not allowed to see the animals stabbed in their throats with a knife. A crucial moment in which we have to check in advance whether the animal is actually unconscious; we were not allowed to see it. Then the pigs were cut into pieces with one leg hanging from a slaughter hook. I will never forget the sound of the metal of the slaughter hooks or the tins in the eyes of the animals. At the end of the tour I was expected to be asked what I thought about it. I said hell. That's when the whole process goes according to the legal rules. But if you slaughter almost 1.5 million animals per day at a killing rate per hour in one slaughterhouse up to 700 pigs or up to 15,000 chickens, then there is no alternative but to make mistakes. If that happens, if anything goes wrong in the slaughter process, then the consequences for the animals are really horrible. That's what we see on the undercover images of animal rights organisations. That is what we read back in inspection reports when they are requested by journalists. That's what the NVWA sees when looking back at images from slaughterhouses with camera surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u3	An interruption by Mrs van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u4	I should like to refer to the first part of Mrs Vestering's speech, because I have also been to that visit and what Mrs Vestering is describing here is absolutely not true. It is absolutely not true. We didn't hear pigs screaming at all, because those pigs were just sleeping in those concrete lofts. Mrs. Vestering wouldn't like that. I understand that very well from her perspective, but here a false picture is sketched. The pigs weren't driven either. No paddles were used at all either. It is absolutely not true. I am very sorry about this, because I can very well imagine from the Animal Party that they already think the slaughter of an animal and the corridor there is a terrible idea at all, but Mrs Vestering paints this slaughterhouse, that I do not know how many welfare measures have been taken and that is in conversation with Eyes on Animals, as if these animals have been treated in a horrible way. Mrs Vestering, I have walked beside you and sat with you in the same group, but you are really sketching an image here that is simply not right. You may not like it, but this is just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u5	I wish it were one of those parties in a slaughterhouse. It wasn't at all. It is true that Mrs Van der Plas wanted to be in the same group as the Animal Party in the slaughterhouse. It is also true that Mrs Van der Plas was one of the people who asked me in anticipation at the end of the tour what I thought. Then Mrs van der Plas also knows what I said, namely: hell. It's still the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u6	That doesn't add up either. I didn't ask you "expected" anything. I didn't expect to ask you, "Well, what did you think?" That's not true at all. We're talking about camera surveillance in slaughterhouses. Well, I want camera surveillance on work visits to abattoirs. I asked Mrs. Vestering: what do you think of this? That's what I asked. I also know Mrs Vestering's answer. She does think this is hell. I also told Mrs Vestering that I find it very difficult to have a discussion with her, because Mrs Vestering does not really want an animal to be slaughtered. That makes this discussion very difficult. We've talked about that extensively. We had a great conversation. I'm really sorry that you're setting up an image of me, which is that I'm expecting... No, I was just really curious how Mrs. Vestering looks at this. My question is: can Mrs Vestering confirm that? I also asked Mrs Vestering whether the Animal Party really does not want to get rid of meat consumption altogether. I asked that question, and Mrs Vestering can answer it in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u7	I can do that right now. That's also in our election program. We would like to work towards a plant-based future. As long as slaughterhouses exist, a number of measures must be taken, otherwise we will be standing here, including Mrs van der Plas, regularly talking to the interrupting microphone about the images we see from slaughterhouses. I can continue, Mr President, but I see that this raises another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u8	I also find abuses and animal execution a disgrace. I do not think otherwise than Mrs Vestering. But I asked Mrs Vestering in a slaughterhouse: doesn't the Animal Party really want to get rid of meat consumption altogether? That is my specific question. What was Mrs Vestering's answer then?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u9	I'm repeating myself, I'm afraid. I have just replied that it is also stated in the election programme of the Animal Party that we want to work towards a plant-based future. This is important not only because of animal welfare, but also because of climate change, because of nitrogen and because of biodiversity, and for a fair distribution of food.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u10	I'm gonna put a ceiling on the number of interruptions later. This is your fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u11	That's right. My question to the President is: how many interruptions do I have?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u12	Shall we do five per group?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u13	Well, then... She did give a good answer. I do not regard this as interrupting, but as a question to the President. Then I'm gonna drop the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u14	Fine. Mrs. Vestering continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the footage we keep seeing over and over again. We see the animals being kicked, beaten and pulled from their ears or horns. They're even getting power surges. Animals drown in glowing hot water and are consciously stabbed in their throats with a knife. This happens, for example, with ducks lifting their heads and thus missing the electrocution bath. By the way, that's the first time they've seen a water bath at all. Even an animal was decapitated while still showing signs of life. At the time this was seen on the camera, the poor animal probably had been eaten long ago. That's how much time is in there. This is done in Dutch slaughterhouses, also in slaughterhouses where a NVWA supervisor is permanently present, also in slaughterhouses where camera surveillance is applied and also in slaughterhouses where the NVWA provides a 10 for animal welfare. Time and again it appears that these serious violations could not be prevented. The Minister acknowledges this. Take slaughter Gosschalk. According to NVWA, this slaughterhouse was one of the best slaughterhouses in the Netherlands two years earlier. But on undercover images of Pigs in Emergency, we saw how things really are. For the umpteenth time, an animal rights organisation had to be involved before intervention. The minister's predecessor admitted more than two years ago that the pressure on the slaughter process has become too great to guarantee the interests of animal welfare, food safety and adequate supervision. The House of Representatives has also expressed itself clearly and drew a limit: the speed of slaughter must be reduced immediately. That still hasn't happened. We're almost two years and over 1 billion animals away. Does the Minister recognise that the consequences for animals in the event of errors in the slaughter process can be extremely serious? Does the Minister recognise that it is immoral to increase the risk of this further? I therefore call on the Minister to do what is necessary while slaughterhouses still exist. Make sure that you can watch live images of camera surveillance by an independent supervisor. Strengthen surveillance, reduce the rate of slaughter and reduce the number of animals slaughtered, otherwise we will all soon be faced with the shame of new horrific images from a slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u16	Thank you. Mr Tjeerd de Groot of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The previous speaker mentioned a number of abuses which led to this debate. I agree; we all just ate. It is not for nothing that the previous government has already recognised that these are not incidents, but that they are structural. The previous cabinet has also said that the current food system is not sustainable. Does this minister still believe that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement is clear on the non-binding contribution that retail and manufacturing have to make to making the sector more sustainable. That includes well-being. Animal welfare starts in the shelf and starts at McDonald's. You may remember that McDonald's, as a customer, withdrew from Gosschalk, the slaughterhouse where these abuses took place. That is exactly what needs to be done, because in the end we, as consumers, via retailers and processors, are at stake. Mr. Chairman. From the chain there is a need to improve. 'Cause who owns that pig that's being dragged through the abattoir by his ears? And who's the wrecked cow that's getting rid of the mobile killing unit? And who cares about the well-being of that smoothed-out chicken on the shelves? Mr. Chairman. We cannot answer these questions, because here there is an important gap in the identification and registration of animals. With paper lists and the famous yellow ear tags, we literally have a system from the last century. It is very sensitive to fraud and you can wait for fraud to come back to us. If retailers and processors want to put market concepts on the shelves, seamless I&R is necessary with electronic information on how the animal was kept. Denmark, Ireland and Austria have already done so. Does the Minister agree with D66 that this information constitutes a crucial link in the implementation of the coalition agreement? I see there's a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u18	No, just keep going. For interruptions, you just have to look at me, not into the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u19	I saw a colleague go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u20	Shall I give you the floor, Mr. Van Campen? On this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u21	I was not sure whether Mr De Groot had finished his point on identification. I would like to ask Mr De Groot for clarification, because it is not always good in practice. Think of the alleged calf fraud, which turned out not to be as serious as it was claimed, but which resulted in very serious damage to farming families. I should therefore like to ask Mr De Groot whether he would like to avoid this kind of abuse in such a different, more digital system that he is proposing here, so that we have the truth on the table and there can no longer be any misunderstandings for the farmer, as was the case at the time with this 'calve fraud'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u22	Exactly this point, because this was about those paper lists. Oh, what a job it was to check all that out! The world is much further away now and just by scanning the stable list you can help farmers very easily. That is much less administrative burden. Then you can see when the animal goes from the farmer to the carrier and to the slaughter and you know who the animal belongs to at that time and how the animal had it in the stable. There are also companies that say they want to provide information about the animal's climate impact, for example, so that consumers can see on the shelves what a climate-friendly piece of meat is. That's the thought. It makes farming much easier. Mr. Chairman. It makes it not only easy for farmers, but also for the Minister. Because you can also focus control on that, because you have the information in your house. As far as D66 is concerned, this monitoring task should also be much more important, for example in order to reduce the tyre speed. Then it'll go down. D66 and the VVD together have asked questions about the three strikes out principle; that can also be a point system. As far as D66 is concerned, there will be a notification on the NVWA website if a company is placed under enhanced supervision. The customers of these companies need to know this. How does the Minister view this? Then some shorter questions. Does the Minister agree with D66 that the speed of the tire simply cannot be increased any further, anywhere? Does the Minister agree with D66 that the tyre speed of all slaughterhouses should be kept under review, also in the light of the availability of sufficient and qualified personnel? Stubborn. The minister must have seen the horrible video that Lubach also broadcast. This is about CO-inflammation. This has been the subject of discussion since 1990. How do we ensure that we don't literally choke animals to a higher belt speed? I'd like a response. It's a good thing there's camera surveillance, but why does the Minister choose a pilot at export collection sites? I understand that the bill does indeed see those export collection sites, but what is the function of that pilot? Is that going to hinder the further introduction of those smart cameras in particular? And, of course, pay attention to the necessary safeguards, I say as a D66'er. How far has the project progressed in separating inspection and monitoring? I hear KDS is going to NVWA. That would be a little weird. Mr President, I will conclude. We slaughter 1.8 million animals a day. That obliges us to take really good care of those animals. D66 assumes that, on the basis of the coalition agreement, the Minister will continue to work on animal husbandry, including slaughter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u23	Thank you. Then Mrs Beckerman from the SP Group. Oh, first of all, a question from Mr Graus. If you'd like to interrupt, please stand by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u24	I'd rather live under the covid norm, Mr. Chairman. I liked that one better. Mr De Groot has also received whistleblowers with me. Unfortunately, he was not present when the predecessor of this minister and I received a woman, a veterinarian who has been severely abused, who has been severely traumatized in a slaughterhouse, and has almost been killed. That was very serious. The former minister knows about this. We want such people, apart from a high fine, to receive prison sentences and a professional ban, and a life-long ban on keeping animals private. We also want final closure for these recurrent slaughterhouses. Again, I've been asking all this together with Frank Wassenberg for a long time. Before Frank got there, I asked this, too. But, of course, nothing's gonna happen. Do you not agree with me that there should be a closure, a final closure if every time it is the same bastards who keep on going and don't care about the Minister, the NVWA and the whole of the States-General here? What should we do with them, Mr. De Groot?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u25	This is a fair question, which is also on the table today: what is the ultimate sanction if a slaughterhouse is constantly trying to get rid of the standards and animal welfare? Is that the closure? With regard to D66 we can also think of a similar point system as in Germany. If you get a fine there, you'll also get a point in Flensburg. At some point, your book is full and sanctions will follow. This policy of sanctions must be much more stringent. That could be a three strikes out or that could be a point system. It's got to be proportional, because in the end, you're just gonna have to stand by the judge. With this guarantee, we are going to go a long way towards strengthening sanctions policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u26	Fine, thank you. Mrs Beckerman of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u27	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are finally discussing this important issue. Too often too many things go wrong in slaughterhouses. D66 referred to it as a structural problem. What I think is very good is that there is a very broad support for animal welfare in this Chamber and that there is a very broad support for intervention, sometimes even a strong intervention. Those are not only left-wing parties, but certainly also for example the VVD we have heard plead for three strikes out. So there is a very broad support here. Where a lot of discussions are polarized, there is so much political support on this very subject. That is why I was rather disappointed to read the documents in advance and this evening I put my hopes on the Minister. When I read those pieces in advance, I still see a lot of things being pushed off. In Europe this can be done, on companies it is certainly necessary. But it is precisely on the parts where the Minister himself can and must get to work that we still lack urgency. A number of examples have just been mentioned, for example the motions on the speed of slaughter that have been adopted. Mr. Chairman. The lack of camera surveillance is, I think, an important point. Because here we see that the proposal for camera surveillance in slaughterhouses has been moved from autumn 2022 to spring 2023. I find that so painful, because we see that the NWVA says that the chances of finding an infringement through camera surveillance are 75 times greater than under regular supervision. It is incredibly necessary and there is broad support for it. Why exactly is that delayed, when we all want this to work out? Can the Minister explain why this delay is coming? Then, in response to an adopted motion, the Minister says: ownership of camera images is not necessary, but access to them. Yeah, but abattoirs now decide where the cameras are and so what's on the footage. Inspectors of the NVWA can only view the images on site. That is very clumsy and incredibly sensitive to randomness, isn't it? I wonder if the Minister sees any added value in the remote viewing by the NVWA. Can he explain that? Because if we really want to take this seriously, this has to be done now. Then there's something about drifters. In all honesty, it sometimes feels like hiding behind European rules, which are then used very selectively. The prohibition of electric pulse weapons is not possible because they are permitted under European regulations. Does the Minister dare to ensure that the NVWA can properly control the correct use of these power surge weapons in slaughterhouses? It is subject to strict conditions, but it still seems to be used too late. At least this is what the report of the foundation Pigs in Emergency shows. In his letter of last month, the Minister states that the government's commitment is to prevent abuses wherever possible and to intervene in cases of alleged abuses and to tackle the responsible slaughterhouses. Then why must it take so long and be so cumbersome to extract electrical weapons from the abattoirs? Why can't we, as the Netherlands, just say: we stop doing this? Then there's supervision. I am very much in favour of three strikes out, which has already been mentioned here. We can agree with that. But everything stands or falls with being able to supervise properly. Hence the questions. Finally, something about intoxicating with CO. We have understood that there are still slaughterhouses here, and I hope that this is not true, but I would ask it to do away with it in this way, when the Minister has indicated that he wants to put an end to it, because it is scientifically proven that it is not animal-friendly. Can the Minister promise that there will be no new transitions? And what's the phase-out gonna look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u28	Thank you. Then Mrs Bromet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u29	Mr. Chairman. There was something to do last week about a maiden speech. Then I saw that this debate was coming and I thought: I can actually get my maiden speech back from four years ago, because it was also about abuses in slaughterhouses. I told them I was a butcher's girl when I was 15. I can tell you all one more time now, because most of the committee members are new. Mr Graus was there, and Mr De Groot, but for the rest, new Members of Parliament have all come to this committee. I told them I hit my head against the carcasses in the cooler if I had to grab something. And I said I hated holding a tongue when I had to cut tongue, because then you felt those papillates and you felt it was really an animal. I also said that I had started eating less and less meat, a development that many Dutch people are going through. I must also say honestly that, because of the debates we have had here in the Chamber, I do not actually eat meat at all, because it is so horrible. That also illustrates the story of Mrs. Vestering of just now. At the end of my maiden speech, I expressed the hope that this debate would not be repeated. Many motions have been adopted in recent years, and since this problem is discussed here time and time again and there is a great deal of support for animal welfare, you would say that it is being resolved. But nothing could be further from the truth. There seems to be some kind of system in the way the ministers of LNV deal with adopted motions here in the Chamber. A motion to improve animal welfare in abattoirs is said first of all: hold that motion for a resolution. There are a lot of Members of Parliament who put the motion to the vote. That motion will then be passed. The Minister then refers to EU legislation that is still to come. Then we get a letter saying that it is not legally possible what we want. Then the minister will ask the industry to arrange it himself, or the minister will do research, or the minister will prepare a bill for a long time. In the last letter we received from the Minister, he stressed that a great deal had been done and that a great deal had been done. But it has not yet produced any results, because we are now here to talk again about the abuses in the abattoirs. I would like to mention two aspects. The first aspect is the tire speed. A motion for a resolution has also been adopted on this subject. The tire speed should be reduced as soon as possible, but the Minister sees no legal possibilities. That's always the answer. You would say: then you create a legal possibility as a minister. Because we can make laws here. Ministers can make laws and regulate them. But no, the Minister is going to investigate the effects of lowering the slaughter rate, while we in the Chamber have said that the tire speed should be reduced. There's gonna be a practice test. We didn't ask for that as a room either. The Minister says that a supported review framework is needed to assess whether there is support for the measures. Then I ask the Minister: support from whom? At the abattoirs or at the Lower House? The conclusion is therefore that there has been no impact of all these efforts on the Ministry on the issue of the speed of the band, because it has not changed and we are back here again. The second aspect is camera surveillance, which has been mentioned before. There'll be a law on that. That's very good. Many motions have been passed on this in the past: in 2014, twelve motions in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, in 2020 and three motions in 2021. The biggest piece in the letter on the Camera Surveillance Act is about the deployment of artificial intelligence. I would say to the Minister: don't make things so complicated; just make sure there's a law that says there's camera surveillance and make sure that camera surveillance is made public, so that everyone can watch what's going on in the slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u30	I would like to respond to Mrs Bromet's input on the speed of slaughter, because the Minister has also sent us a study from Wageningen University. In this we read that, provided the proper measures have been taken at the workplace in the slaughterhouse, this speed of slaughter can be overcome in itself. The Minister said he wants to dig deeper into that practical analysis. Until then, applications for an increase in that slaughter rate shall be rejected. So he really chooses that practice-oriented approach, but I would like to ask Mrs Bromet how she read that first study of the WUR. So it says that slaughterhouses can really take preventive measures that do not have to be the problem in themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u31	We can take it, but they won't be taken. I would say that until all these measures have been taken, we are going to reduce the rate of slaughter. Then the abattoirs can decide what other ways are there to increase animal welfare. But as long as that is not settled and as long as the abattoirs don't, the Chamber is going to intervene and say that the tire speed should simply be legally reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u32	I totally agree with Mrs Bromet. In the slaughterhouses where it's not right, you have to take such a measure. In my opinion, the Minister wrote in his letter that he is prepared to do so and that he will do so. I would like to say to Mrs Bromet that there are also slaughterhouses where careful and good work is being done and where all the measures from transport to final slaughter and processing of meat are well in order. I will also draw attention to this in my own contribution. In case of abuses, you sometimes have to take very firm measures. That fully supports the VVD. However, I would like to ask Mrs Bromet whether she agrees and recognises that there are also slaughterhouses where careful work is being done on animal welfare and food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u33	Why is the speed of slaughter important for a slaughterhouse? That's because it can make more returns on the animals. Is it good for the employees who work there? Is it good for the animals that work there? No, it's all not good for that. Why wouldn't you say that the band should stand at a manageable speed by default? Those other measures are really good, so put them on top of them. Why wouldn't you say that? There can never be too much animal welfare in a slaughterhouse. It's never good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u34	There is an interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u35	Thanks to Mrs Vestering, I was just apprehended by a very prominent doctor in this field. He's an expert on the subject. He says that reducing the band speed is the first and only good action to take immediately. Mrs Bromet said that it is not legally possible, but it has already happened a few times. Mrs Schouten, the former Minister of LNV, has already done so. My question concerns permanent controls. We want there to be pre and post mortem physical checks. We also want camera images, but then they must be read completely and remotely by the NVWA and the animal police. Do you agree with me, Mrs Bromet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u36	I'd like to clear up a misunderstanding first. I didn't say there were no legal options. The Minister writes in his letter that there are no legal possibilities. When it comes to the... I forgot the second question. Oh, yeah, it was about camera surveillance. Yes, of course the NVWA should be able to view the footage. Actually, I'd like to go much further. I'd say, if there's nothing going on in those abattoirs, why can't everyone watch? There are plenty of animal welfare organisations that want to keep an eye on things.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u37	We've already walked that route. That has to do with privacy and so on. The animal police and the NVWA should be able to view these images in an unlimited and remote manner. That is still separate from the fact that pre and post mortems must always be physically present. These must be duo teams: a vet of the NVWA plus, at risky controls, an animal policeman or woman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u38	Quite once, but in recent years the NVWA has been cut so much that that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u39	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Graus of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u40	I've been working with "loose tickets" my whole life, as you call them, Mr. Chairman. I said something about the speed of the tire during the interruption. I am very grateful to Mrs Vestering for the fact that a genuine expert veterinarian, who has also worked for the NVWA, has just confirmed that the tyre speed has to be reduced. We'll just start with that. Let that be said. I will be happy to sign and support any motion on this subject. That's what I've done with the Animal Party before. This is yet another debate on the disgusting bastards with defenseless animals in our slaughterhouses. We have also requested a debate on this ourselves. Our request has been merged with that of Mr Wassenberg, who was with it before. Thank you to my colleague, who unfortunately is not here at the moment. The continuous images of animals for slaughter that are tortured, cooked alive or ripped open just before their death are on everyone's retina. Everyone thinks it's disgusting. I've never met anyone who doesn't think that's disgusting. People just lie awake from that. It is also disrespectful to the farmers, who are still trying to treat the animals somewhat well. But if they get into the last few meters of their lives, they'll just be tortured. That is also very disrespectful to our farmers. Even sober, hard abattoir workers reported to me in the last few years. NVWA veterinarians are also there; they were received by the former Minister of LNV and by me. They were severely intimidated and abused. We have received one lady who has really almost died. We received her separately. It was very sad. That woman has been traumatized for her life. I'm still with her and her health in mind. I hope she's okay. But actually, little or nothing has happened. Just before this debate we received a letter from the meat sector stating how well it would all go. But I'm not the king, am I? I'm not handing out medals here. The point is that we're here to deal with assholes. And that's what we're gonna do together, as Mrs Beckerman said. I feel there's gonna be a lot of cooperation. Mr. Van Campen would even go with me on a job visit. He did withdraw afterwards, but at least the beginning was there, so that was very nice. Hey, he's gonna sit. Funny. I hear him saying it's gonna cost him an interruption. I'm going to list a few points. We don't discuss awards here. I'm going to list a few points we'd like to make. I've got the motions ready for that, too. Some things I've been asking for since 2006 and some things since 2011. We want high fines, much higher fines, in relation to the crime. But those fines should not be for the vets, as is happening now. Last week another vet got a high fine, while the best man didn't even get a warning and actually didn't know he'd done anything wrong. But he did get a fine of $5,000. No, the bastards need to be dealt with: a prison sentence, a professional ban to never work in a slaughterhouse again, and also a life-long ban on the keeping of animals for recidivists at slaughterhouses. Because when you deal with animals like that, you don't get along well with your animals at home either, so end of practice. We also want permanent camera surveillance. Actually, that's already been agreed. That camera surveillance must be in addition to physical checks, premortem and postmortem. We also want the animal police and NVWA to be able to watch permanently. That is very easy to do today.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u41	There's a question from Mrs. Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u42	I was actually waiting for the end of Mr Graus' speech. There is talk of the three strikes out principle, so if three offences are seen, the third time a red card comes and the slaughterhouse closes. Does Mr Graus agree with the Animal Party that such a principle, when the offences are not seen and not observed, is of no use at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u43	That's right. Besides, I think that's serious... if you're gonna throw a pig alive in a kettle, it's just gonna have to be one strike out. Why do you have to give someone like that another chance? They're just sick idiots. If you do that to a human, you don't get a second chance, do you? Why are you allowed to do it in animals that were there before us and that are much more hypersensitized than we are? I cannot understand that, not even from the Christian parties. Nor can I understand from the Christian parties that they allow ritual torture. For every Bible says that the animals were there before the humans, that we were allowed to live with the animals. And yet all Christian parties here in the Chamber allow animals to be tortured ritually. Yes, come on, sir... I'm ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u44	Mr. Boswijk is coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u45	Mr. Boswijk, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u46	Since I am the only representative of the Christian parties here, let me respond. The Bible also says that we should give people a second chance. I am not talking right about the horrible images we have seen, but for the Acts I have to put this right: the Bible says that we should always give people who have made a mistake and want to improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u47	Yeah, but that's not gonna happen, is it? If you do this with a human being, you're just being treated hard, and rightly so; that's what our group is for, for example. You're gonna go straight to jail, and you're right. But why doesn't that happen to animals? Why not? Why do animals get to be tortured ritually? Why? I think we all have the same god. I'm also a believer, but my God doesn't want this, believe me. Otherwise there will be different gods, and I will not know who is with the good God. But at least that doesn't happen to me. I think it's really outrageous. Whether you believe in the theory of evolution or in the story of creation, the animals were there before humans. Amen. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna get back to what I wanted to ask. I talked about the pre- and post-mortem checks by duo teams consisting of NVWA doctors accompanied by the animal police. If there's an animal policeman out there with pepper spray and a power gun like that, you should check it out. Then they already have a less big mouth; believe me. A vet like that can't resist at all, but if there's an animal policeman or woman standing there... that's a heavy caliber people. By then, 80% of everything will be smothered in the bud. We also want a rotation system within the NVWA to prevent harassment by or too close links with slaughterhouse management and staff. That also plays with the NVWA, including those too tight ties. We also want... that concludes me, Mr President, otherwise I will have a fight with you and I often need you for support at group meetings, as a fellow vegetarian. I would ask that a definitive closure of recurrent slaughterhouses be possible. That has already been done, because under pressure from the Chamber, the previous minister has already temporarily closed a slaughterhouse. But if it comes back every time, a definitive closure must be possible for these recurrent slaughterhouses, as I call them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u48	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u49	Mr Graus is sitting here much longer than I have and has had this debate countless times. How does he feel about the adoption of motions here but that nothing really changes in the slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u50	Mrs. Bromet, that's my biggest frustration after 16 years here. I've been standing here so many times with all the emotion and passion, often even with the support of the Chamber, and nothing happens. The ministers go and come. In between we have also had secretaries of LNV, who come and go. We drank a glass and puddled. That's to be despondent. What I do notice, especially with this minister... I really have to give him that. I know that even my colleague Frank Wassenberg of the Animal Party agrees. He has not tabled any motions for the first time during the last animal welfare debate, as have I. This Minister has been very interested in us when it comes to dealing with animal suffering. So I'm confident. He's already shown that he really wants to meet the Chamber. But, as I said in the interrupting debate, there are also people who simply don't care about it. I respect the minister, the policeman and the teacher, but there are also people who care about a minister and the Chamber. If you see how I have dealt with myself as a Member of Parliament in recent years, it is shameful. Shameful! In fact, I have always worked for the weakest of society. I've always done good things. When you see how you're treated, like a piece of garbage. There used to be respect, but there's absolutely no more respect, not even for MPs. There's no respect at all anymore, not at all. Those butchers think, "Oh, that minister. I don't give a shit. That's none of my business. Those MPs with those full heads, I don't care about any of that either." The NVWA intimidate them. They're gonna push them out. Those people are scared. That's why I'm telling you there's got to be a cop. And nothing happens, nothing, nothing. I've been telling the same story all along. Really, to be despondent.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u51	Yes. Rounding, short, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u52	Well, I think it's good that Mr. Graus still has the courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u53	Yeah, I think that's pretty good, too. A compliment at the end!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u54	To give an answer to that: that is because I can also tap something every time. All this time, every time, for entrepreneurs, for animals and for aviation, I've always been able to tap something. And then you stay. If I can't tap anything else, I'm obviously out of here and I'm gonna save animals and help myself again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u55	We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u56	That's what I've been doing for the past few decades, because I still do, don't I? I'm gonna come back as the animal saver someday. Watch me. Then I'll go after the animal executioners myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u57	It's noted. Mr Van Campen of the VVD Group will be the next speaker. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 17 June, my colleague Mr Haverbort, our animal welfare spokesperson, will take Mr Graus to work. Mr. Chairman. The images we have seen of horrible abuses and excesses in slaughterhouses turn the stomachs on each of us. It unleashes a great sense of anger. When you like to eat your piece of meat, you should be able to trust that it will come on your plate safely and with respect for animal welfare. At the same time, the VVD also wants to support all those employees in slaughterhouses, the vast majority, who work every day for their crafts. If you do it right, the butcher's business is a craft as far as the VVD is concerned. It is a craft that is needed in society, by anyone who likes to eat a piece of meat. People who choose to do so must therefore be able to trust that the animal has been treated with respect up to the last seconds of life and that food safety has been taken into account with the greatest possible care. Misdemeanors knock that out under the butcher's box, and we have to act hard against it. In the letters and answers to Parliamentary questions we read that the cabinet shares this urgency, but it has been said before: it is all very non-binding. For the VVD, Gosschalk was the absolute drop that caused the bucket to defect. The Minister announced a bill allowing more camera surveillance. It is especially the voluntary that makes us frown the eyebrows. Why does the Minister choose this? As far as the VVD is concerned, the cabinet seizes the possibility offered by the law to allow the remote reading of camera images in slaughterhouses in real time. This is also what the Minister is asking for his own inspection, confirmed by the Wageningen University report, which sees opportunities here at all stages of the slaughter process. I would like a response from the Minister as to why he does not choose this and what is necessary to change his mind. Furthermore, the VVD believes that it is time for a penalty menu: a point system three strikes out, which makes it crystal clear to all parties what the consequences are of obvious, independently identified animal abuses. In response to our parliamentary questions, the Minister is also very reluctant. The Minister refers to "total legislation applicable to slaughterhouses," but the Court can help him with that. A new system of sanctions, ranging from fines to the final lock on the door, should ensure two key competences: animal welfare and food safety. Is the Minister prepared to make a commitment here and get to work on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u59	A question from Mrs. Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about that point system that Mr Van Campen comes up with. Could Mr Van Campen perhaps tell me what figure Gosschalk's slaughterhouse received from NVWA with regard to animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u61	I think the images we've seen together from Gosschalk slaughter are the example of what, for me at least, is such a "strike." Perhaps you should immediately say "lock on the door and show us what measures you are going to take to prevent this from happening again," and don't want that to add up to three. So also towards Mrs Vestering: I think Gosschalk is exactly the example of pulling the ears of pigs, dragging animals through the corridors into the slaughterhouse, of what is not acceptable, of what is unacceptable, and of which the slaughterhouses must ensure that it does not occur in their farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u62	This slaughterhouse received a 10 from the NVWA for animal welfare. If we're talking about three strikes out, those violations must at least be observed by the NVWA. The whole plan makes no sense if these violations are not observed. How does the VVD intend to ensure that these offences are visible and observed immediately, so that immediate action can be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u63	Allow me to come back to that in the course of my speech, because Mrs Vestering's call for camera surveillance to be allowed on the work floor, where remote images can be read in real time by the NVWA, is particularly appealing to my group. We think you can see that in conjunction with each other. I agree with Mrs Vestering: we can still formulate such beautiful strict rules with each other, but if you do not know what is going on in the workplace, it is not very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u64	Another question. Mr Van Campen began his contribution by saying that the slaughter of animals is a craft. What you do is: you do so much damage to an animal that it eventually dies. This happens in some slaughterhouses with up to 15,000 chickens per hour. Are we still talking about a craft?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u65	I understand this may not be the craft of the old butcher in the village, as you used to see. I think we should conclude that in the companies that Mrs Vestering talks about, too, people are working every day with the best intentions and their craftsmanship and discipline to ensure that there is a good and honest piece of meat on the board of people that is needed in society. I do not think it is up to me to say, above a certain size of animal slaughter, that there is no more craftsmanship. I believe that we should also stand here for those who do their best and do their best to ensure and take serious care of animal welfare and food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u66	Then I would like to call for another debate to take place at another time in this Chamber, on the working conditions of the people in the slaughterhouses, because they too are horrible. Then we're not talking about crafts at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u67	The Wageningen University formulates very clearly and accurately what measures can be taken to properly shape and organise the entire slaughter process in the workplace. My interruption to Mrs Bromet was also intended for that purpose. I believe that an employer has an obligation to take care of those good conditions. That's part of a safe and responsible slaughter process, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u68	I still have a few questions about that VVD plan of "three times, strikes..."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u69	It was something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u70	It was something in English, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u71	Three times and you're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u72	It sounded very forceful, but I don't know what it means. What does it mean? The abattoir closes after three violations? Is it about violations that are now regulated by law, or is there still a need for new laws, as I suggested in my own speech? What is it more than a marketing phrase?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u73	At the abuses at Gosschalk we stood here with each other at the interrupt microphone and asked the minister: put the lock on the door, because this is the border. Up to here and no further. That's how we drew a line with each other. I do not think that we should go into detail here with each other as to what we think the border is. I have feelings about that, too. When I see the footage of what was going on in those hallways of that slaughter, my stomach is really turning around. I find that unacceptable. But I think it is important that there should be a sanction regime, an enforcement regime, where it is very clear in advance where the border is drawn. When do you speak of mistakes, which can also occur in a workplace? Or when is there structural, obvious abuses that could have been avoided and prevented? Then you just have to draw a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u74	I think it's very easy to draw a line when something is legally laid down and when things happen that are forbidden. That's about the speed of that band, for example. It causes year in, year out of all these problems. The Minister doesn't want that to be laid down by law. But during this debate I wonder: is the VVD also willing to adopt additional legal measures? 'Cause that's pretty obvious. You do comply with the law, or you don't comply with the law. Maybe the VVD is willing to make a bill together with GroenLinks to reduce that band speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u75	I made proposals myself in my speech. I think the Minister is still too reluctant to take legal action. So I think it is quite clear that there must be a legal framework in which we say to each other what we think is acceptable. Let me be clear: we find no violation of animal welfare acceptable. But it is also very clear in the Minister's letter. He writes: where people work, mistakes are made. It is only in the case of the VVD that we are dealing with these truly demonstrable, flagrant animal welfare violations, of directives that we have agreed on. Twitching those ears at Gosschalk, through those hallways: that's unacceptable. Unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u76	I'd like to continue with the speed of the tire. Mr Van Campen cites a study from Wageningen that would show that a high band speed could be achieved with all kinds of measures, so that this would be okay for animal welfare. But we don't really know exactly what's going on in all these slaughterhouses. We're waiting for surveillance. We also know that there are capacity problems with the NVWA. So shouldn't we turn it around? Shouldn't we say: that tyre speed should go down; if a slaughterhouse can prove that all these additional conditions are met, then perhaps that tyre speed can be increased? But now it's done the other way around. The tire speed stays high and if we ever see a mistake, it might go down again. So if we're gonna be behind that study from Wageningen, we can't say: it's getting lower by default and only excelling abattoirs. That sounds a little crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u77	The VVD doesn't feel like letting the good ones suffer from the evil ones. Because there are also houses where good work is done. I only agree with Mr Thijssen that you need to intervene in cases where the speed of slaughter is the cause. And you can't do that unless you know what's happening. That's why real-time, live reading of those camera images is so incredibly important. These are large industrial processes that go fast, which are highly intensive. But also in such an environment you have to maintain and observe your animal welfare standards. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u78	Of course, that sounds very reasonable: the good should not suffer from the bad. But how many good guys are there and how many bad guys? Are the good in the majority or the bad? We don't know. So should we not be sure, in the interests of animal welfare? After all, we do not want these flagrant violations of animal welfare to happen. Shouldn't we say: we're safe from the uncertainty, so the band speed goes down and we're going to put the camera surveillance in order; if it turns out that a slaughterhouse is indeed in order and there are no flagrant animal welfare violations for a year, then we're going to take a look at a higher band speed?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u79	I believe that, as a representative of the people, we also have to relate to the scientifically sound arguments that lie ahead. The Minister announced that he did not consider the WUR report to be sufficient, so he was going to carry out an in-depth practical investigation into it, according to exactly how it was done. Yes, that is the playing field on which we determine laws and regulations with each other. We have to do that on the basis of substantiated facts. Until then, as the Minister has said, his direction towards the inspector-general of the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority is maintained in order not to allow applications for acceleration of the slaughter belt. I think that this is a careful process, but I would like the Minister to make real progress in the preparation of his legislation on the one hand, and on the other hand, with regard to this system of sanctions, three strikes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u80	That wasn't exactly the question. The question was that at the moment we don't know how many good and how many bad there are. Right now I'm making the proposal: let's bring that tire speed down. However, I have the impression that the VVD considers it more important that slaughterhouses should be able to continue at this speed and make their economic gain and that animal welfare is less important. In the meantime, I'm gonna do some ground-up tests. The fact that we are going to carry out in-depth investigations and that we know that there are abuses is precisely a reason to say that we are not sure, because animal welfare is more important than the economic gain of a number of abattoirs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u81	The fact that Mr Thijssen disagrees with my answer does not mean that I have not answered his question. I answered his question. I would add that I think that the annual report of the Dutch Food and War Authority is one of the important documents on the basis of which legislation and regulations are to be determined here. As far as I'm concerned, there are no taboos. I think that's what I said, with the three strikes and camera surveillance. But let us do that properly, and let us leave it to the Minister, Mr President-in-Office, to do so occasionally on the basis of facts. And where it goes wrong, we need to intervene. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u82	I was just teasing Mr Van Campen with the work visit he had promised. The VVD has been committed for 15 years to participate in a work visit to the animal police. Since 2011, the animal police were actually there, for the sake of clarity, but there was also a veterinary forensic team. It's a very heavy work visit. You are not going, but you are doing this important debate here when it comes to animals. Mr. Haverkort... you mentioned his name... is the current spokesperson animal welfare that goes along, but there were then three, four VVDs who had promised to go along. I'm about to have the whole police summit meet in Driebergen and I'm drumming up the veterinary forensic team, which is very busy, and also the people of 144. I think it's sad that we're just gonna go together eventually. I think that's very sad. I just wanted to say that, because that's the way it's been all these years. But once again, Mr Haverbort is happy, but if he also withdraws the cunt, then I really go to the priests of Mamelis in the monastery, you know. I'll give it all up.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u83	Mr Edgar Mulder is not here tonight either. That is actually the colleague with whom I have the most debates in agriculture. That's okay. We split it up, the bump work, together, in consultation. The good thing is that the fact that Mr Haverbort is going out with Mr Graus means that I can look at another place in the country where we can improve things for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u84	Beautiful. Beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u85	That's how we deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u86	Is there camera surveillance on your work visits?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u87	I think so, Mr. Chairman. At least I have no objection to that. Not even if it's read live. Mr. Chairman. We read in response to a number of Parliamentary questions, which is actually a bit along the lines of what Mr Graus says, especially about administrative fines. But when is there a violation of the Code of Criminal Law? We often hear about farmers who have to comply with the most stringent standards by NVWA, while in slaughterhouses they turn a blind eye or, worse still, not even a report is produced. How does the Minister see this? When does criminal law come into play after administrative law? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I said it in the debate with Mr Vestering: fine words are worth nothing when supervision and enforcement are not in order. The VVD wants an inspection that is serviceable where possible and decisive where necessary. There can and should never be harassment of supervisors. It is good that the cabinet is looking at strengthening the position of the NVWA. When are we gonna hear more about this? The VVD would like to see customisation of tariffs to the nature and size of slaughterhouses and that good behaviour is rewarded. Think, for example, of customization for self-slaughtering butchers. Mr. Chairman. Where people work, mistakes are made. That's human. It's an illusion that we can prevent that. But obvious abuses, the excesses that we have seen too often in recent years, that his choices and that is sloppyness, indifference and for a dime want to be on the first grade. The VVD sets the bar high for animal welfare and food safety. We can't compromise on that. We are doing it for the animals, for the staff in the slaughterhouses who are working respectfully and carefully and for anyone who likes to eat a piece of meat and must be able to trust that it will be safe and responsible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u88	Let me touch on the last point of the VVD: you need to be able to trust it. Do you agree with D66 that it is necessary to be able to demonstrate as a supermarket or processor a piece of meat that the whole slaughter process went well and that the animal also had a good life on the farm?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u89	This interruption reminds me of the answer to Parliamentary questions from, I think, Mr Thijssen on the Better Life label, where there were abuses in the slaughterhouses, but the meat ended up with the label on the shelves. That whole chain must be transparent in that. On Mr De Groot's proposal, I interrupted him in the context of the affair with the alleged calf fraud. If we can take measures to make that chain more transparent, so that there is an incentive in all those links to work better in the interests of animal welfare and food safety, I certainly agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u90	That is good, because at last consumers need to be sure that they can eat meat with a clear conscience, because they have worked sustainably with an eye for animal welfare. I'm glad the VVD feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u91	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u92	This also includes the fact that this has to be objectively established, so that we really know that there have been abuses. And then we really need to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u93	Fine. Mr Thijssen of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've seen those horrible images from the slaughter that are engraved on our retina this summer. I've been on a job visit, too. I won't soon forget those images, the smell and the sounds. I am thinking of the new Animal Law, which has been adopted, which lays down that animals have intrinsic value and that they must be respected. But how can the intrinsic value of an animal be respected if more than 600 million animals are slaughtered each year? And how can animal welfare be improved? We have just heard from Mr Bromet that she gave her maiden speech here four years ago, that she called attention to the same problem and that there has actually been little or no progress. Is the Minister going to take this with him when he comes up with his vision of agriculture? Should we not ensure that animals can be slaughtered with respect for their intrinsic value by making sure that there are far fewer animals in the Netherlands and therefore much less need to be slaughtered? There are many good reasons for doing this: climate, nature, nitrogen, water and zoonoses. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, there is also an objective: animal welfare. What is this Minister's view of agriculture, so that we can improve this part of the agricultural problem as well? Then to animal welfare in the current abattoirs. How are we gonna improve that? I fully agree with what Mr Bromet said about the speed of the band. I just had an interrupting debate on that with the VVD. We think it's essential that that tire speed goes down. I'm not going to waste any more words on that; it's nice if you can work so closely with a beautiful other party. Better enforcement requires an increase in the chances of getting caught and the fines increased. Therefore, the following questions. There's gonna be camera surveillance. Hopefully there will be no blind spots in all the places where there are live animals. Can the Minister confirm that? Does he also think it is a good idea that independent supervision of these images, that these images become the property of NVWA, that the NVWA can read them wherever it wants, but also, as the Animal Party suggests, that others be involved in that supervision? Why is Pigs in Emergency not invited? They have a lot of people who really want to supervise. This way we can solve a bit of the capacity problem. If they see possible abuses, they'll pass it on to NVWA. In this way, we can ensure that animal welfare crimes, violations are detected and that the NVWA can then continue to be enforced. I have another question about the fines. How high are the fines and how often are they handed out? Does the Minister think those fines are enough to scare the hell out of him? If I have to pay a euro for every time I park wrong, I think I'm gonna park wrong a lot of times. And will the minister work with three strikes and you're out? In other words, if we see the abuses we saw three times last summer, that means that the slaughterhouse is finally closed down. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the conditions of employment in this sector. They're a modern form of slavery. There are a lot of temporary contracts, very little training and a lot of staff are dragged back and forth throughout Europe. The tire speed is killing me. According to the European Food Safety Authority, 29 out of 30 animal welfare hazards in pig slaughterhouses can be traced back to staff. The Animal Protection Committee has told us today that humans pose the greatest risk to the welfare of animals in the slaughterhouse. In Germany last year it was stipulated that all forms of subcontracting should be prohibited and that employees should be in permanent employment. Can the Minister reflect on this German initiative? Can the Minister then elaborate on how often the Labour Inspectorate visits slaughterhouses? How many fines have been issued so far and of what order of magnitude? Can the Minister also elaborate on the concrete measures which the Minister intends to take to improve working conditions in slaughterhouses? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u95	Thank you. There is one short question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u96	Like Mr Thijssen, I am in favour of increased supervision, but this must continue to be done by the NVWA, the Animal Police, NVWA veterinary surgeons and NVWA-boas. Does Mr. Thijssen know how difficult these trainings and examinations are? You don't just become a controller or enforcer with the NVWA or the Animal Police. If you're telling us to have it checked by Pigs in Emergency, I'm gonna drop out in advance. Then I can explain why I am about to vote against this motion and advise my group to vote against it, because we really need to stick to the professionals. I hope Mr Thijssen agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u97	I have just heard from Mr Graus that he has been in the Chamber for 16 years and that it has not progressed very well. So forgive me for thinking a little creatively about how we can get progress on this. Because I'm new to this file. To be quite clear, there is one supervisor in this country and one person who can take action and that is the NVWA. This idea doesn't change that. Only, I keep hearing that the NVWA has no capacity. I know that there are a lot of people in this country who would very much like to contribute to better animal welfare. I believe that the same applies to the supporters of Mr Graus. I'm just thinking about how we can get the footage into NVWA's ownership and how people can help NVWA to see what's actually happening in the slaughterhouses. There are things that cannot be accepted and can we say to the NVWA: look carefully at this; have I not seen an offense here? It is then up to the professionals to make and determine that consideration: whether or not a fine and one or two strikes and you're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u98	The people of Pigs in need are benevolent. There's probably a lot of volunteers in there, too. A lot of people in the Netherlands know exactly what to do with animal welfare. They can all apply to the NVWA. I think the NVWA needs a lot of people. There is absolutely no need to have Pigs in Emergency supervised there. I would say: apply; get to work there and make it work. It's much easier, isn't it? Then we are also equal to the staff shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u99	That's a nice call. In my view, the problem is that there is a structural shortage of capacity at NVWA. This is not because people do not want to apply, but because of the number of FTEs the NVWA has and because of the occupation. I think there are also a lot of people who say: I have nothing to do for an hour, so I'm going to look at some footage to see what's going on there. They don't say that they want to be a professional at NVWA. I think Mrs van der Plas' reaction is a bit defensive. Why can't we just help the NVWA reduce animal suffering in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u100	Mr Thijssen doesn't really think that you need to put a few volunteers behind a camera to have some images evaluated, without having any training or knowing what to look for? Anyone can think out their emotions. If you push a pig forward by hand, someone can already say that's assault and that you have to stay away from that pig. You must have a proper education for that. I know there's a huge shortage of vets. Veterinarian training is screaming for people. So again: if you want to do that, go to that study, go to an education or report to the NVWA. But we should not go to a situation where Jan and alleman can look at images and that on that basis the future of a slaughter can be determined? Mr Thijssen doesn't want that, does he? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u101	I'd really like to explain it again: no, I'm not saying that. The NVWA is the supervisor. The NVWA determines whether there are abuses and how to deal with them. But I still think it's a bit of a defensive reaction. I think that Mrs van der Plas occasionally comes up with these creative ideas, like when she proposed to see if we could accommodate asylum seekers in this building because there were still some empty rooms. Well, also this is an idea to see how we can increase monitoring to improve animal welfare. There is a problem with the capacity, but I think there are a lot of people who care about this very much and would really like to contribute as a volunteer. But the final assessment remains with the professionals of the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u102	Clear. Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Eerdmans of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u103	Good evening, chairman and colleagues. I understand that since 2008 we have been talking about abuses in slaughterhouses, but they may have happened before; I can ask Mr Graus. So it's been like this for 13 years. Yet every time new incidents occur and we are shocked by images or reports. Remember the news that came out last year via RTL News about slaughterhouse Gosschalk in Epe. In our opinion, the slaughterhouse was quite rightly closed because it simply exceeded all the limits we saw. I must also compliment Pigs in the Emergency, who dare to expose this kind of abuses, do so and have certain courage, I think, to continue to do so. However, despite repeated promises of improvement and change, we are still seeing violations, errors, abuse and unnecessary suffering of animals for slaughter. The most worrying thing is that the infringements take place with camera surveillance in the slaughterhouse, often in the presence of such an inspector of the NVWA. So we think it would be better not to give camera surveillance to the slaughterhouses themselves. I also think that the government agrees that it should be viewed at a distance and independently, especially for those slaughterhouses themselves and their staff, which will receive public support. JA21 stands for high animal welfare standards and we want abuses to be quickly detected and addressed. This responsibility lies primarily with industry itself. But the disclosures of abuses make us as a society, but certainly also the industry itself, much more aware of how these kinds of abuses can affect the feeling in society about the slaughter of animals. In short, I have a few questions for the Minister. When is this mandatory and independent camera surveillance, as far as you are concerned, settled in our slaughterhouses? Does the Minister have any idea what the effect of higher fines is? I heard other speakers talking about higher penalties and sanctions in the field of animal welfare. And what exactly is the penalty for cooking a pig alive? I understand that's $1,500. I find that beastly low, to be honest. I fully agree with what Mr Graus said about this. Is what we see the tip of the iceberg, according to Pigs in Necessity, such is that, or are we, hopefully, looking at excesses, at exceptions in the sector? JA21 is also curious about the government's pilots on smart camera surveillance. Because an inspector can only look at one screen at a time, but a robot can look at countless screens at the same time. Can the Minister tell us how many pilots will be created and how long they will last? And will it be tested whether human control is necessary and effective in addition to smart camera surveillance? Finally, Mr President. The Minister also writes in the letter to the Court that many other types of innovations are underway in the slaughter industry. We wholeheartedly agree with the Minister. However, JA21 says that we need to give the industry space, time and certainly the financial resources, if you really want to realize it. Can this not take the form of, for example, a special innovation fund aimed at improving animal welfare within the slaughter industry? I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u104	Thank you. Mrs. Vestering has gone through her interruptions. So we'll go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u105	Five interruptions have been agreed, and I had four.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u106	The jury says five, and I trust them 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u107	May I give one to Mrs. Vestering?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u108	No, that's not how it works. That's what we do at the market, at the Albert Cuyp.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u109	Well, then we'll make a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u110	We're gonna listen to the next speaker. That's Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u111	I was ready, Mr President, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u112	I knew that, or I would never have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u114	Mr President, I understand that it is 'five strikes and you're out'.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u115	You always get another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u116	I always get another chance! Okay. This is six seconds of my input, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u117	You'll get it back for free.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u118	Mr. Chairman. 95% of people eat meat, perhaps not every day, but most of the Netherlands just wants to enjoy a piece of meat once or more a week. Those Dutch people must be able to trust that the meat they receive on their plate comes from an animal which has been well cared for, but which has also been dealt with in a normal way just before slaughter. Every deliberate assault is too much. I think we can agree on that. And to all the people who abuse animals, inside and outside abattoirs: just cut it out. Mr. Chairman. Eating meat is by definition killing an animal. That is why the debate on animal welfare in slaughterhouses is sometimes difficult to conduct. After all, the animal dies. After all, the animal is slaughtered. By definition, a vegetarian or vegan does not want an animal to be used or killed for human convenience. A choice I respect, by the way. However, most of the Dutch don't think so. They accept that an animal must be slaughtered in order to put a piece of meat on the table. But like me, they don't understand why there's no proper handling of the animal before it's slaughtered, and that makes perfect sense. Mr. Chairman. Whether vegetarians and vegans like it or not, meat consumption will rise with a growing world population, to 9 or 10 billion people in 2050. Therefore, we should not want to drive our meat production away from the Netherlands. As a result, production is moved abroad, where we as Dutch people have absolutely no idea what is happening in a slaughterhouse. And let's not call each other a pussy. There are parties here in the Chamber who simply want to get rid of the meat sector. They also want to get rid of meat consumption, but, of course, you don't say that out loud to the voters, because that would cost a bump of voters. Then you just say: we want to work towards a plant-based future. In my dictionary, that's just what we want to eat off meat. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to talk about structural abuses. Let us stop putting all the abattoirs and butchers on the same page and let us focus on tackling and enforcing the real abuses. Not every banker is a fraud, not every politician is a pocketfiller and not all butchers are animal killers. And, yeah, you gotta deal with washing out. Period. Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions for the Minister. Why does the NVWA include in its reports infringements that are still subject to objection procedures? This is contrary to the principle that one is innocent until the contrary is proven. In practice, it appears that these provisional infringements are often withdrawn or rebutted. Can the Minister explain this to me? Can the Minister respond to the code of conduct adopted by the Dutch abattoirs belonging to the Central Organisation for the Meat Sector, the COV? This code includes, for example, in-service training for abattoir workers, knowledge exchange of animal welfare experts from various slaughterhouses and the annual reporting on the functioning, compliance and results of that code of conduct. What does the Minister think of the results of the research of Utrecht University and Wageningen UR? This shows that increasing the slaughter rate can be done without any problems, provided that a number of conditions are met, such as proper planning of landings, various adjustments in the establishment of the slaughterhouse and an assessment based on a review framework containing all animal welfare risks, food safety and the labelling process. Is the Minister prepared to cooperate with the meat sector in drawing up this review framework and to make rapid progress? Is it true that for the poultry sector there is already such a review framework, agreed between the NVWA and the interbranch organisation for poultry butchers, the NEPLUVI? Speed increases have only taken place after investigations have also been carried out by independent experts, such as those of the WUR. Does the Minister think it is right that companies that have already invested with the government on this basis and on the basis of agreements made can not achieve an increase in speed? Does the Minister agree with me that he has to keep the agreements himself? Finally, Mr President. Do we want to improve animal welfare or do we want to scale down meat production here, with the result that the slaughter moves abroad? Because no matter how you turn it, Dutch and Europeans just keep eating meat, whether people in this Chamber like it or not. That meat must have come from somewhere. Tell me, where do we want it to come from? From here, so we can influence the whole process, or from where it's hidden from our eyes? It's up to you, Minister. It's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u119	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Boswijk of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debates we are having in this house are often a little polarized. We don't agree very often. But there was something about change in this Chamber last summer. The disgust of the images we all saw back then was certainly unanimous. We also unanimously called for the closure of the slaughter operation in question from the left to the right. I have to say, my stomach turned around when we saw that footage. I think that was true not only for my stomach, but also for the stomach of many people who called Mrs Van der Plas "to be able to enjoy a piece of meat from an animal slaughtered and raised in an animal manner." Mr. Chairman. The stomach of a lot of people in the butchery sector also turned around, a lot of people doing their work every day with passion. Mr Van Campen has already mentioned the craftsmanship they exercise. Now they are being treated in the same way, while so many people in the sector are doing their job with heart for the animals. Can the Minister take us into account what happened after the closure of Gosschalk, what actions have been taken, what improvements he sees, what talks he has with the sector, how other slaughterhouses look at this and what proposals they make to improve this and also to maintain the support for the sector, for the food and consumption of animal-worthy meat? Mr. Chairman. The answer to my written questions from six months ago shows that the Ministry was going to look into whether NVWA inspections could be carried out in slaughterhouses in a separate organisation. We have already made a number of agreements on this in the coalition agreement, and also on a new model that rewards good behavior and punishes bad behavior. Can the Minister reflect on that? What impact is that likely to have on animal welfare? Then I'll be on camera surveillance. Privacy is a great asset, also for many employees in the slaughterhouses. You shouldn't think that if we're ticking motions, there's a camera on your fingers for a whole day. At the same time, however, there is widespread social unrest and animal welfare is important. That is why we are in favour of camera surveillance, live in the abattoirs. Then we do not mean, as my colleague Mr Thijssen suggested, that any person, with the best intentions, can supervise in his free hours. We're thinking of an organization where the knowledge is, the NVWA. We are very curious to see how the Minister looks at this, and if he is open to it, how this can be implemented and at what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u121	Does Mr Boswijk have any idea how many people you need at NVWA to do that camera surveillance right?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u122	Quite frankly, I cannot give that answer. But I do know that the NVWA is currently understaffed, also because of financial tights. As a coalition, we have also said that it must stop. This is, of course, also a reason why these abuses are now taking place and sometimes only come to light very late. So as coalition parties, we also agreed on that. I expect that to be part of the solution. That's the question I just asked. Those cameras are the other part. I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks, although I understand that that answer is not coming immediately today. Let's say we do. How many abattoirs are we talking about? It is also very different from slaughter to how it is physically classified. I'm very curious to hear that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u123	Yes. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u124	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Groot has already referred to it: nothing is separate from each other. It's all tied together. As a citizen, we have our mouths full of animal welfare, the environment and the climate. If we walk into the grocery store, something crazy happens. Then suddenly we turn into a consumer. Then suddenly we get the cheapest package of milk and the cheapest piece of meat. We've all been able to see Pointer's broadcast of Annechien ten Have. She has a company that focuses on animal welfare, but she is also involved in special management. The coalition agreement gives the Minister a broad mandate to improve the income model of the farmer, of the primary sector, which can also bring animal welfare to his feet. We also expect from the Minister in the perspective letter a firm approach and concrete proposals, related to animal welfare and to the primary sector's earning model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u125	Thank you. At 8:15 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u126	The Minister has the floor. I propose that we do five interruptions per group in this period. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u127	Thank you, Mr President. A large number of questions have been asked to me. I'm standing here on behalf of the cabinet. I must confess that, when I said yes to the request to become Minister of Agriculture, I did not expect to have this debate with your Chamber. So, Mrs Bromet, I too must say that I personally am not looking forward to this kind of debate with the Chamber. I do not think that this issue is important, but I actually think that society should have solved it, so that a debate in the Chamber is not necessary. But it is true that slaughterhouses are regularly the subject of discussion and criticism. Let me be absolutely clear: I think this should not be necessary; I think that animal welfare is incredibly important. I am also saying this towards Mr Graus. It is not just about animal welfare in the sense of looking at animals and keeping animals. No, it's also about animal welfare at the end of these animals' lives. I believe that every effort must be made to ensure this. It must not be the case that the economy is first in terms of animal welfare. Efficiency and production must not be at the expense of animal welfare and food safety. Animals must be treated with respect. As far as I am concerned, responsibility for animal welfare and food safety lies primarily with the companies themselves, whether they are the primary sector, the transporters or the processing industry. It's the responsibility of every link in that chain. If there are abuses there, we must appeal to them as well. That means that I too will certainly take steps in my position, if necessary. I'm not going to stand by and watch any wrongdoing. Fortunately, we have an organization for this, the NVWA, which is very conscientiously engaged in its task and mission. In recent years there have been discussions about the NVWA. This also has to do with the fact that there were problems with staffing. Luckily, your room has decided to make extra money available for that. Fortunately, I am working with the ig of the NVWA to see how we can improve it, how we can ensure that there are more people and that conditions improve. I think that is a very good thing and that we can also take some serious steps. It is also clear that it is not all 100% here and now. The Chamber also said it's human work. It's still human work. Of course it is, but I do believe that we have a responsibility to enable that whole chain to deal with it in a good and responsible way. I say it again: that means that I will see to it, on behalf of your Chamber, that there is good action. Of course we're not done. Much has been going on in recent years. I've heard your room a number of times about the situation around Gosschalk. That was a shocking situation. I'm glad my minister has decided to lock the door there. I also note that considerable steps have been taken there. That is where steps have been taken which, however,'satisfaction' is not the right word to convey a slightly positive vote on me when it comes to taking responsibility. And yes, it was too late; certainly too late. Because that's where things happened that couldn't stand the light. I've seen the footage, too. That's where things happened that weren't justified. Things are happening, and I have also talked about this with Pigs in Emergency, who cannot, which cannot be tolerated. I think we should see to that together. I'm sure I will. That means we're not at the end yet. That means, for the development of camera surveillance, I will be there in a moment to answer the questions that we are going to use much more firmly on that camera surveillance and on artificial intelligence. A large number of you mentioned the speed of slaughter, the practical test and the establishment of a framework for assessment. I'm working on it. I watch very closely for what can and cannot be done. But not every company is the same and not every situation is the same. Every once in a while, we have to be tailor-made, and we have to take care of that customization. NVWA needs tools to improve supervision even more. I will work very hard for that in the coming period. The position of the Netherlands in Europe is not that of an island; no, that is a position that... Well, if you ask me about my ambitions, that is that we will be among the top predecessors when it comes to the treatment of animals and animal welfare, also on the road to slaughter. That is what I intend to do in the Vught Group, a merger of countries that consider animal welfare to be of great importance, not only in long-distance transports of animals, but also in slaughterhouses and when they are on their way to a slaughterhouse. In this respect, therefore, I have a firm ambition to take steps in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u128	That sounds like the end of an introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u129	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u130	Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u131	Right about the tire speed. The Minister talks about a test of practice, but the Chamber did not ask for that test of practice. The Chamber has asked for the tape speed to be lowered. The Minister talks about customization. That reminded me of a statement by the Ombudsman, who was in the Chamber last week. He said bespoke is not a solution to bad policy. The Chamber just wants that tire speed to be reduced. If there are no legal possibilities to do so, why is the Minister not preparing a legislative proposal to create these legal opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u132	In reply to Mrs Bromet's question, we now have the situation at Gosschalk. It has been established that the tyre speed should not be raised. I'd like to keep it that way right now. I'm looking into this right now. On that basis, I will come back to the Chamber to see whether it is satisfactory or whether we need to take other measures. I certainly pay attention to what is said here in the Chamber, because I also think that action should be taken if it is proven that speed is not justified. But right now, I'd like to wait and see that investigation. On that basis, I will draw conclusions. I note that we have to do it now with the speed that is now fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u133	We didn't ask for the tire speed not to increase; we asked for the tape speed to be lowered. We didn't ask for an investigation; we asked the Minister to arrange it. There's a majority here who wants that. My question to the Minister is: why does the Minister not simply carry out the wishes of the Chamber? 'Cause that's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u134	I just indicated in my introduction that every company is unique and that every system is unique. I ask the NVWA to see what is and what is not responsible. I'm not going to increase the tire speed. Where I note that things are still too high or too fast, or that they do not meet the responsibilities, I will not fail to make any choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u135	The Chamber has already drawn these conclusions. The Chamber drew these conclusions two years ago. It is unacceptable that the rate of slaughter remains as it is today, and we are not even talking about increasing it. The Chamber wants the rate of slaughter to be reduced immediately. That was two years ago. That was 1 billion animals in slaughterhouses in the Netherlands ago. And still, the slaughter rate hasn't lowered. I therefore agree with the previous question. Why isn't the slaughter rate reduced? We are listening to the Minister's well-proclaimed ambitions, but can we count on them to be equal to the ambitions of the House of Representatives itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u136	It is not a different answer to Mrs Bromet's question. Where there are situations where this is found to be irresponsible, I will not fail to make choices. But I note at this point that we have a factual situation, that I am conducting an investigation and that I am drawing conclusions on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u137	I'm curious about what the Chamber's ruling is worth to the minister. Then it's not just about this verdict, it's about multiple motions that have been passed. There is broad support for at least reducing the preventable suffering as much as possible, but we see that little is being taken up. So you can have great ambitions, but I would very much like to see the Minister actually implement it. It is therefore a question of the ambitions of the Chamber. I'd appreciate it if the Minister could respond to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u138	I think I've been clear about my ambitions. I think I have also been clear about the questions and calls of the Chamber, where it cannot be justified. I say to Mrs Vestering that where it cannot be justified, I will ensure that things change. But right now, I'm concluding that it can be justified. We've seen that in the Gosschalk situation. We have seen that it was necessary to intervene there. If it is necessary to do so now, I am going to do so, because I have also told you that this is my responsibility and that I think animal welfare is important, including in the last part of an animal's life. It has to be responsible, in a good and proper way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u139	In the end, the NVWA did intervene with Gosschalk, but what was seen, the first reason, was not seen by the NVWA itself. Those were the animal rights organisations, so to refer to them now... I would like to refer again to the NVWA, which gave this slaughterhouse an A for animal welfare. Then you can't say, "We've got it all under control. We've all seen it and then we've done a good job." There was indeed a lock on the door, after we talked shame to all the groups about what happened there. In the end, stricter supervision was introduced, but that too has disappeared. At the moment when the House of Representatives says it wants to reduce the rate of slaughter in slaughterhouses, the Minister should not say 'we will see where that can be justified', talking about raising it. I would like to see the wish of the House of Representatives to reduce the rate of slaughter carried out. That's a wish from two years ago, so there's still some catching up to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u140	I promised what I promised the Chamber. I have also said that we are going to intervene again when it turns out that there are situations that are not justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u141	I may be able to help the Minister, because I do not always feel that all the files are being properly transferred to a new minister. Jan Odink... I may mention the name; it was a good acquaintance of mine. He's even been Secretary of State for LNV. He has also been president of NEPLUVI, of poultry holdings. Just before he died, he told me: if you can do something that doesn't give the sector the headbeat, but something can happen in terms of animal welfare, it will reduce the rate of slaughter. Those are the last words. Then he died and I couldn't talk to him anymore. It was his last words. It was the last words to me, I say for clarification. When today's debate had just begun with Mrs Vestering as the first speaker, I would like to see a veterinarian, not least from the NVWA: that slaughter rate should simply be reduced, because there are problems there. I know that your predecessor, I say through the chairman, was also planning to reduce the rate of slaughter. So I don't know why suddenly there's a problem and it's questionable again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u142	It's not doubtful at all. I gave your room what I stand for. I've been to a butcher's shop myself. I've also seen the total of the slaughter system. Wherever it can be justified, I have said it can be justified. But if there are things that cannot be justified, then we must stop doing so. Because I also told your Chamber that the economy should not be leading the route around a piece of meat finally on the plate. That's not the point. The intention is that an animal can also come to the end of its life in a responsible way. This does not mean that speed and economic gain must be a guiding factor in this. That is what I stand for and which I want to maintain very clearly. If the conclusion is that certain systems are not working, then we must draw conclusions from that. But I have no indication at the moment that it should be different from the situation that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u143	It is very interesting that the Minister does not see any reason for this. It is also very interesting to know that he will intervene if there are another abuses like with Gosschalk. That's very good. It is also good that the Minister wants to take a practical test or further research. But there's just an adopted motion from this Chamber that orders the Minister to lower the tire speed at abattoirs. And that motion is simply ignored.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u144	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u145	We're just joking about: maybe we should file a motion that calls or requests for the motion to be carried out. But that's the world upside down, isn't it? Why can't the Minister just confirm: I've read the motion; I'm going to carry it out. If you then come back later with that practical test and say 'it can go up again', then we have that debate again. But now there is a democratic majority that this minister commands: lower the speed of the band. Why don't you? Why are you ignoring the will of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u146	Mr. Chairman. I'm not ignoring the will of the House of Representatives. I just suggested that we do this another way. So first the research, the practice test, and then see what's needed. And on that basis draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u147	But that's not in the motion. The motion calls for an immediate reduction in the speed of tyres in the Netherlands in all slaughterhouses because there are too many abuses and the House of Representatives is very concerned about this. So, carry out the motion as it is intended: lower the tyre speed at abattoirs in the Netherlands. If you're gonna come up with some kind of investigation later that shows that it could go up again, then we'll talk again. But do what the House of Representatives tells you to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u148	In reply to Mr Thijssen, I proposed that we do that. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna do that as soon as possible. After the summer I come up with the results. Then I will discuss with your Chamber the conclusions that we draw from them. Then you can tell whether it is the right way or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u149	Just for the administration, maybe they can look it back at the Ministry: it's a 2020 motion, the De Groot motion, Room 33835, about substantially reducing the tyre speed in slaughterhouses where incidents occur regularly. Now, with a grand gesture, the Minister says: I am not going to allow the speed of tyres to be increased. That's really not what the Chamber asked. Now I've gone to see how you can reason. Second half 2020: Van der Linden Poultry Products has received eleven minutes for infringements in the field of hygienic works. Plukon Blokker has committed six infringements in the field of hygienic works in six months. These are 312 checks. Then ESA Apeldoorn. Also work hygienically it's all quite a bit...... and food safety: 159 controls. Just one last example: Ameco in Apeldoorn: 4 minutes for hygienic work, 44 checks in six months. There are also a lot of warnings and so on. It seems to me to be sufficient reason to say that it is simply not under control there. Then the tire speed goes down and I'm going to re-evaluate. Then I'll keep Wageningen's research next to it: what are the risk factors? Only when the slaughterhouse can prove to have it all under control, will the speed rise again. This way you can carry out the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u150	Mrs. Van der Plas. Mrs. Bromet's already been in this round. Does Mr. De Groot still want to finish his own interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u151	The Minister isn't answering, so I find that very strange. We have a debate here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u152	I would like to reply to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u153	Sorry, I thought you didn't want to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u154	No problem at all. Of course! That is what this debate is about: is the Minister carrying out a motion from the Chamber? Of course, this Minister wants to make a motion from the Chamber, but the Minister also thinks it is important to get things in order and to know what is going on. Of course I also know that things aren't in order, Mr. De Groot. Of course, I also know that this needs attention. I also promised you that I would do that with the NVWA. On that basis, I would like to draw conclusions. I need a practical test for that, and I need a discussion with your room for that. Thank you, too, for allowing me to have this discussion with you today. I'm gonna jump to conclusions. You can hold me to that. As far as I am concerned, a motion adopted by your Chamber is simply leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u155	I think there's been some confusion about motions. There have been several motions. There was indeed a motion by Mr De Groot in February 2020. Then there are motions that say: it must be done now, immediately. In any case, it does not seem desirable to me to say, generically for all slaughterhouses, that the speed of the tyre is going down. There are also abattoirs that simply function well. So you don't have to do that. If I'm driving through red, I don't need to get a fine all over the Netherlands. That seems kind of weird. But there is some confusion about it. I'm just gonna ask the Minister to get to the bottom of this. We may be dimming here about carrying out motions that were adopted on a given date, but perhaps it is an idea to see what the Minister said about those motions? Did that investigation come out of it? That could be very good. Now it looks like the Minister isn't carrying out a motion, but he's only been there a few months. It may well be that agreements have been made on this in recent months. Is the idea of informing the Chamber about this point-by-point? What have the steps been? That would be my proposal, but I will leave it to the Minister and the Chamber to decide whether they accept it. It seems a little crazy to me to say now: gopekee, carry out that motion and reduce the rate of slaughter in all slaughterhouses. Sounds like a bit of a horse ride. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u156	I think I just indicated what timeline I think I should act on. I have made a commitment that I will, of course, take seriously motions that have been adopted by the House in a majority. We'll see if we can carry out those motions. I suggested that after the summer I return to you with my findings, including from that practice test. That's the way I want to fly it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u157	I have a very powerless feeling about this. I have said in my speech and I have also heard in other contributions that we have debated wrongdoing in slaughterhouses countless times. We have tabled numerous motions that have been adopted. And then those motions will not be carried out. There are all kinds of other things happening, so the ministry is extremely busy with everything, except to carry out the wishes of the Chamber. We are the highest body here, and the Minister simply has to do what the Chamber says. Or did I get it all wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u158	No, definitely not. We from the Ministry are also working very hard to provide value to all of the Chamber's motions. We have had a motion on propellants. We've had motions on camera surveillance. We have had motions about heat and about the reduction to 30 degrees and about speed. I'm working on it, I'm taking the motions thoroughly, but I also need time and space.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u159	I have a bit of a doubt, because I had seen that rather broad consensus in the Chamber, of course, a little hope that the cabinet would take that as a message. The Minister will know that we will have quite a lot of polarized debates in the coming period. In this debate, there is a great deal of support for intervention. How does the Minister feel about this support from the House of Representatives or at least that broad support from the House of Representatives to do more than has been done now, regardless of individual motions? Doesn't the Minister also see that the Lower House wants a lot more here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u160	I can see that, too. I still have a large number of answers to ask questions. Maybe the Chamber will give me a little space to do something about that answer. That is what I am going to do in this situation and what I intend to do in the coming period. I was allowed to say a few things about that by now. But there are certainly a number of bigger ambitions. Then I shall begin with Mr Van Campen's questions. 'Cause what about that three strikes out approach? That is the idea that Mr Van Campen has put forward. I agree with Mr Van Campen and your Chamber. When it comes to abuses, you have to intervene. Mistakes that are more common: that can no longer exist. I very much agree with you. It is about thinking about the question: how can we ensure that it does not happen again that slaughterhouses do not comply with the agreements? And in the extreme case: how can we make sure we just lock the door? But I'm thinking about that idea. I would like Mr Van Campen's space to explore what is necessary for that. How can we ensure that it is also a workable system? Of course, you have rankings. I can raise about a dozen, perhaps a hundred, questions that I do not have an answer to at the moment. But I could imagine that I would come up with an elaboration of the proposal put forward by the VVD Group. Then I can see if that's workable for the Chamber. I have already discussed this with the NVWA and I have clearly indicated how I stand in this regard. I can also tell you that the NVWA thinks it is a very interesting proposal and would like to take part in this in order to provide an impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u161	I would like to thank the Minister very much for this movement. In my view, we should not want it to come to Question Time on Tuesday, after again such a shocking, scandalous excess in a slaughterhouse. We should not want the movement to be made only afterwards to intervene in such a slaughterhouse. That's the thought behind our three strikes and you're out approach. It must be very clear in advance when the lock goes on the door, whether temporarily or not. So that's the thought behind our idea. We're glad the Minister wants to get to work on this. I'd like to ask him how he's having that conversation with the NVWA. He writes in reply to our parliamentary questions that there are, above all, a lot of legal constraints. I'm sorry to hear that. What legal limitations are these? Of course, we can get rid of them here. That is why we form a parliament together here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u162	I really see that as an invitation to explore that. Of course, there are all kinds of rules that can hinder us, whether those are Dutch rules or European regulations. I can't say anything about that right now. I also hear this idea coming forward for the first time this afternoon, as you, Mr Van Campen, put forward tonight. I want to take a good look at that and I find it incredibly interesting to explore this. Because I say again that I also think that if violations are committed, it is unworthy of a company to continue to do so. If this is more frequent, measures must be taken. If it's not different, the door will be locked. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm on camera surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u163	Mrs. Vestering, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u164	The Minister states that he will investigate this possibility further. We know that as a tactic or a strategy: to investigate things further. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what impact this investigation has on the implementation of the motion for a resolution that we are going to reduce the rate of slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u165	I don't. Mrs Vestering suggests that I undertake an investigation to delay matters. That is absolutely not the case. I am perfectly clear and clear: I have ambitions in this area. That has nothing to do with delay or other matters. I would like to serve your Chamber with the right proposals, which are legally sound and feasible; that is, of course, also a point. I just need time for that, and that has nothing to do with delay. Mr. Chairman. A large number of questions have been asked on the subject of camera surveillance. Once again, I think that surveillance should be introduced. That's not a discussion. I also think that camera surveillance should be as technical as possible, so artificial intelligence should really be a part of that. It is still in full development. It means a lot. It must also be legally well-protected, justified. I just need a little time to do that. I have told you that I have great ambitions, but sometimes time leaves me in the lurch. This has simply to do with consequences such as internet consultation, as a discussion in the Council of Ministers, as a notification to the European Commission and as consultation and advice from the Council of State. I've got something to do with that. I am not saying that this is so annoying, but it is, of course, the consequences of procedures that we have agreed on in the Netherlands. I say to you, even from this chair, that I'm going to speed up where I can. Camera surveillance needs to be established, camera surveillance in a broad sense. I think if you have a company that has nothing to hide, you should just allow camera surveillance. And yes, it must be justified. It's about people who work there. It is about responsibilities you have with regard to the protection of personal data. It has to be justified, but I also think that as a company, you should just give it your full cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u166	Next time he talks about camera surveillance, would the Minister add that at the largest abattoirs in the Netherlands we have twenty very large abattoirs already have camera surveillance, that the sector itself has been working on that? Because now it seems a bit like there is no camera surveillance at all and that's just not true. The big, modern abattoirs already have camera surveillance. It's often about the small butchers. I would like that distinction to be made, because otherwise we are going to misunderstand the Netherlands as if the slaughter sector did not want it all and that they all have secrets. I would appreciate that, so my request to the Minister is to add that the slaughterhouses already have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u167	Mrs van der Plas has not heard me say that this is not the case. There is also a warm cooperation between the NVWA and a number of large abattoirs with regard to camera surveillance. Vion is working very hard on that and I think that's very good news. I think that's a good thing. This also makes the company vulnerable and indicates that it wants to take responsibility. So Mrs van der Plas is right, but I had not had the opportunity to say that. So here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u168	I didn't say I didn't hear the Minister say it either, but sometimes things you leave out can also have an impact. Because of the way it is said here, it is as if abattoirs do not want to do so, whereas the abattoirs have already done so themselves, and it already has that, without being a legal obligation. The art of leaving out can also be the art of adding just by giving a good, honest picture. What people think of slaughter they can all know for themselves, but then at least we have the facts ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u169	I haven't heard another question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u170	Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u171	It's not about whether abattoirs want it or not. The point is that we in the Chamber have said that we want it to be compulsory. So it's good that the Minister is working on a bill. I'm glad he's carrying out the Chamber's wish. The question to the Minister is whether he is not making it unnecessarily complicated, by working with artificial intelligence and all kinds of techniques that are not there at all. Isn't it much more convenient to just connect with the techniques that are already there and just start with them as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u172	Yeah, sure. That's what I said. I'm working on that bill. That bill has a procedural time, but where we can get started, we're just gonna do it. And wherever we can make it possible to do it in animal collection sites, we will do it. Actually, I want it to be insightful throughout that chain. Then I will tell Mr Thijssen, if I may, Mr President-in-Office, that that must also be justified. Not everyone should have access to all the information. Of course, we live in an open society. It would be nice if it were available to everyone, but that has to be justified. Fortunately, we have a filter and that filter is called NVWA. Those are very well able to if they can access the images... I think that is a condition: they should be able to access images. It shouldn't be behind a lock. It shouldn't be selected. It just needs to be open and honest. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u173	The same NVWA says that the chances of finding an infringement via camera surveillance are 75 times greater than under regular supervision. It is therefore a very useful tool to detect any abuses and also to prevent them. I have just asked in a more general sense, but the Chamber feels urgent. I hope the Minister feels the same way, but the bill has now been delayed for six months. The minister says he can't do so much about it. But can he be more specific, so that we as a Chamber feel that everything is being done about it? Where is the delay and where can the Minister speed up? We don't have any insight into that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u174	I just said I'm trying to speed up where I can. I have here the planning of the bill in front of me. That is that we will start the internet consultation on 15 June. On 1 August we will do a test on the Dutch Data Protection Authority. On 1 October I hope to deal with it in the Council of Ministers. Then the notification will start in Europe. That'll take three months. I can't escape that. Then I hope to get advice from the Council of State around March '23 so that I can offer it on 1 April 2023. I promise you that where I can speed up, I will, but this is the list of dates I have to face.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u175	There are indeed a number of things that cannot speed up very much, because participation and consultation are simply very important. That's a big good. So we have actually started too late, but we cannot look at this minister. However, listening carefully to Mrs Van der Plas, there may be broad support at slaughterhouses to get started already. What examples does the Minister see for himself to do or have done more in slaughterhouses?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u176	That is a simple answer: where we can speed up, we should speed up. If your question is whether I would like to sit down with the sector to see what is already possible, I am, of course, very happy to have that conversation. So my answer to Mrs Beckerman's question is: yes, I see this as an encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u177	I'd still like to ask you something. I thought it was an original idea of the Minister to see how we could increase the capacity to look at the images. The minister says: we have the NVWA; we can. How's he gonna see that? There's a lot of camera footage coming up on the NVWA. The Minister wants to work with artificial intelligence. That may be a good idea, but that still needs to be developed and learned. So until then, human eyes are needed to watch to make sure that artificial intelligence is getting smarter and smarter. How many hours and how many men does the NVWA think they have for this? Will the Minister at the stage that artificial intelligence is not yet fully operational, explore or help other organizations and people to supervise, to check those camera images and to say: hey, this is coming out; NVWA, just look at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u178	This is an interesting thought from Mr Thijssen; it is not. I said that I think that the NVWA is doing a very responsible job for us, so that all this can be neatly according to the rules, especially GDPR proof. What I'm working on in that bill is, of course, that camera surveillance. Where we can broaden things, for example to smart camera surveillance, we need to see if we can implement that in law. Now I don't know what it will take to get that camera reading to go up to 100%: how do we make sure that all of this is done properly? We really need to check that out. Let's get this camera surveillance going. I have heard Mrs Beckerman's call, namely to see where we can speed up. I'm gonna make that call to the slaughterhouses, too. After all, time doesn't stand still, so let's move on. The slaughterhouses do not need legal arrangements for this. Eventually, there will be a law that regulates matters well and allows people to fall back on them quite responsibly. That's how I'd like to pick it up. I have understood Mr Thijssen's point very well and I shall think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u179	It is a good undertaking that thought is being given, but I would like another commitment. If that camera footage is about to become available and that artificial intelligence needs to learn, how many hours is it actually gonna take from the NVWA to do that right and fast? Can the NVWA handle that? Can the Minister come back to that when he comes to the effect of the law in a moment's time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u180	Yes, of course. I have just given the answer to another question that, fortunately, the NVWA has been given more money to use more people. It really is a subject that concerns your Chamber. It's important to get this whole system intelligible. There will also be more people to be deployed. I don't know how many that will be; that really needs to be looked at. I suggest that, as soon as we move towards that law, we also make it clear how much human power is needed and how we think we can read these systems properly so that it will meet the wishes of your Chamber, because that is, of course, what you are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u181	This will be Mr Thijssen's last interruption. No? This will also be Mrs Vestering's last interruption. It better be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u182	I know, Mr. Chairman. I'd love to have a lot more. I think I have some catching up to do, but unfortunately there is not much counting. I'd still like to ask one more question. The Minister is talking about speeding up where possible. We are talking about animal welfare today. This is a very important subject, which does not only concern me but more than one Member of the Chamber. However, I do not hear the Minister on food safety, which is also at stake here. The abattoir inspection service, the KDS, has said on several occasions that the inspectors are currently not responsible for their inspections. Then we are talking about food safety. But there is still no effort to reduce the rate of slaughter. So also when it comes to food safety, I ask the Minister: why is there no effort to reduce the rate of slaughter? Why isn't that actually being done?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u183	I believe that this question has already been answered a number of times. I answered that. If it's irresponsible and if it turns out it can't be justified, then something has to happen. I have also promised this in response to a number of questions. If Mrs Vestering has information that can help me make a choice in that, then I am happy to take that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u184	Fine. I think the Minister still has quite a stack of answers for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u185	Sure. I think we've had the subject of camera surveillance by now, including the planning of the bill. I've got another block. I need to see what else matters. Maybe that's already been discussed. We've been talking about the disclosure of data. Mr... Something. Yes, Mr. De Groot. It is very well written here: Mr De Groot of D66. He was talking about enhanced surveillance. He just put it out there, too. That information shall be publicly available and shall be made public. At least, the NVWA does. They consciously do so, to show the society where something goes wrong. There is no hesitation in making the data public, but of course this is done in a responsible order. That is not necessary when it comes to one report of a minor incident. That is kept, but that doesn't have to be the same with name on the Internet. But if it is repeatedly found that things are not good, then it should simply be public. There's no discussion about that. You're also asking for a slaughterhouse monitor, I believe. We're gonna set it up. We're gonna see how we can shape that idea. I'm gonna have that conversation with the NVWA. We're going to see how we can access that kind of data in a good way, because we have an interest in just being public.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u186	Very nice. Thanks to the Minister. If I understand the Minister correctly, it is also just to be found on the NVWA website when a slaughterhouse is under enhanced supervision. Yeah? Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u187	Sure. Then there is the question, also from Mr De Groot, about the separation of inspection and supervision and how the KDS will be covered by the NVWA. Before the summer, I will come forward with proposals on the adjustment of the system of surveillance in the meat chain. I have a committee debate with you on this before the summer. In particular, the NVWA will be involved. I shall therefore refer to the position of KDS, so there will be another letter to your Chamber for that debate. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's question about propellants. You said that European rules hinder the stakes and asked: does the Minister dare to guarantee that NVWA can control the stakes? In preparing for this debate, also this afternoon, I have looked at what these driving devices are, because I did not have a very good idea. To my surprise I came across a lot of these things again. Then I thought, "How can it be true?" Fortunately, the actual situation is that it has to comply with strict European rules, so it really has to meet strict and specific conditions. It is also required that use should be avoided as far as possible. I also understood that there are strict conditions for how they should be used. We need to be strict where things aren't going well, because we just can't. It is clearly and clearly prescribed and must be maintained. Therefore, through your Chamber, I make the appeal to the sector: just stick to the agreements and make sure that animal welfare matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u188	In order to be able to maintain it, supervision must first be in order. That was the question. I like the fact that the Minister is also shocked by what is possible and by what is happening, but the question was: can the NVWA now have sufficient supervision so that intervention can also be taken? The problem was that this whole thing wasn't rolled or prevented by the NVWA, but only when Pigs in Emergency showed footage.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u189	Sure. You're asking me to guarantee that the NVWA can control the stakes. The answer to that is yes, because that is what the NVWA is for. I also said this afternoon in my conversation with Pigs in Emergency: if you find that things are not right, make sure I get that information. 'Cause then I'm gonna talk to the NVWA to prevent that and fight it. Mr Graus said that the animal police should be armed with pepper spray and a power stick and asked me to respond. The answer to that is that the animal police are a police officer with a task force. And I'm not about the police and what weapons she's allowed to carry. So I can't comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u190	I didn't talk about it at all. I just said something about risky controls. Animal police are coming from me. So I know exactly what they all have or don't have. I've asked for an animal police officer or wife to be taken to risk checks to prevent intimidations, threats and abuse of veterinarians. I said then: they are armed and have a stun gun; they have police powers. Those are all things that a boa doesn't have, and of course a vet doesn't have. A policeman also has the exclusive right to violence. They can react with appropriate force.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u191	Thank you for this explanation. I'll take that tip from Mr. Graus. Then there's a question about administrative fines. Mr Van Campen asked about criminal law and when. For a large part of the violations of the Animal Law it is stipulated that offences can be dealt with both by administrative law and by criminal law. Administrative enforcement is the starting point. In the case of companies, administrative sanctions often make it possible to intervene more effectively in business operations. However, on the basis of the specific facts and circumstances, the NVWA, in conjunction with the D.A., can choose to actually draw up a report for criminal proceedings instead of an administrative fine. Wherever it's really necessary, it just needs to be done. What about the reinforcement of the NVWA, the cost-covering rates and the fees? As Mr Van Campen probably knows, there is a programme for the revision of the cost model and of the NVWA system of fees. I am now working with industry on a new cost model through a review of it. As you know, the coalition agreement states that we are aiming for cost-covering rates and that we are going to transform the tariff building, in order to achieve good arrangements and subscriptions that vary according to business size and ensure that good behavior and compliance are rewarded. I am certainly taking them into account in the development of this new system. Let's see. Mr Thijssen had an interesting question about working conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u192	There is another question from Mr Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u193	What does that look like in time? When will the Chamber be able to come up with proposals and when will that actually happen so that we can have the debate on this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u194	That is not an easy task either. It's a whole structure of a system. We're already exploring how that should be. I really need a large number of months to do so in order to effectively exchange it with your Chamber. To really make a detailed proposal, it might be 2023. So I can also have a discussion with your Chamber. I really need time for that. It's not organized in an afternoon. It has become a very fine-measuring system with a number of things that you have to see now that it really has to be different. How do you make sure that's feasible? So I really need time for that. As soon as I have an overview of how that will look in time, I will of course inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u195	I hesitate, because I believe that the Minister's planning letter really said that we could see proposals for this in 2022. That is in the field of NVWA later. I understand that things have to be carefully done. That's important. We are debating it here in the Chamber, but that inspection is the key to the solution to improve the position in these slaughterhouses. So this drive is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u196	Agreed. Perhaps we should also take a look at the fact that these fees are of course part of a much broader palette. Those aren't just for those slaughterhouses. I suggest that in my letter, also in reply to Mr De Groot's question, if we are going to discuss NVWA, I try to clarify my timetable for discussing these matters with your Chamber and coming up with proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u197	Fine. Can we get to the second term yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u198	I've got a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u199	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u200	Then I come to the question of working conditions in response to Mr Thijssen's question. Of course, an interesting remark has been made about this, which I understand very well, but I am not about that. I would like to be careful to make statements on subjects that my colleague from SZW is dealing with. She's really about working conditions. It seems a bit easy to push off, but I do not mean it that way, because I also think that responsible working conditions are one of the elements of business management. But I can only refer you to my colleague from SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u201	Mr Thijssen's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u202	Yeah, yeah, but the SP's over there. That is a very important parliamentary partner of the PvdA. It is difficult, because I would very much like to see this question answered. If the speed of the band is lower, there we have it again; that's what the minister is about. This means that there is less stress on the staff and less animal welfare problems, as is expected. My request to the Minister would therefore be to say that he is looking at how this is now regulated in Germany and whether this will lead to an improvement in animal welfare in Germany and in working conditions, but I will ask SZW. Can the Minister undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u203	Sure. I think that is an interesting comment from Mr Thijssen. That is a promise. I must, of course, take a look at that, but I will certainly see what happens in Germany at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u204	Mrs. Beckerman's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u205	It is indeed about animal welfare, but it is also about human welfare. In the corona crisis, a lot went wrong in slaughterhouses. A lot of employees ran on corona there. Then a motion by my colleague Frank Futselaar was adopted to make fixed contracts standard according to the German example. Then your predecessor at LNV, together with the Minister of SZW, promised to enter into talks. I am very curious as to how this motion for a resolution was carried out and what was the outcome of that discussion. Maybe the Minister can come back to that by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u206	Sure. I didn't know that motion, but I definitely want to look into it. I will ensure that this is communicated to your Chamber by letter. I have also said that I believe that, in a responsible business operation, employees should also be able to work responsibly. We have indeed seen the excesses of this in corona time. Another question from Mr Eerdmans about a separate fund to ensure that innovation can be made available to the slaughter industry. There must be space, time and resources. The question was whether this could be done in the form of an innovation fund. I think there are a lot of funds available to get part of the funding for innovation. So at the moment I do not really see the need to set up a separate fund for this. Another question from Mr Boswijk about a model of earning in order to improve animal welfare. My answer is yes. I shall return to that in the letter of perspective which I hope will be sent to your Chamber in the second week of June, because that is one of the pillars. Then the intrinsic value of animals. I have the same answer: I will come back to that too. I think I've run out of questions. No, I still have Mr De Groot's question about the registration system. The question was: it's an old and fraud-prone system; isn't it much better to make sure it's all digital? It's easier and better to follow. It is also better for the sector and better for processing. But I have a lot of questions about what Mr De Groot means. You call market concepts, tracking the animal, how it should be kept. You also mentioned the climate. My question is, what exactly is that system going to do? Aren't we trying to get everything together? What exactly is the underlying idea of the D66 Group at this point? I am absolutely in favour of a system of registration as well as possible. As far as the comment on calf farming is concerned, of course, this situation is not good. Where we can make use of modern technology, therefore, we must certainly do so, but I would like to look at the key points that Mr De Groot is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u207	Thank you to the Minister for this clarifying question. Let me start with the coalition agreement. That says that those chains need to be closed and that you should be able to go back to the farm from the processor, from the retail. Of course, we've already arranged that with I&R, but we've done it in a way that involves working with paper lists. That means a lot of work for the farmer and is fraud-prone and error-prone. There are already very easy tools, with an ear tag. With your registration, you can just use your stable lists to get all the support you need. So that's basically the basis: just take that to the present time, just like Austria, Ireland and Denmark have already done. That's one. While you're at it, the business community in the same stream can also provide information on how these animals have had it on the farm, what has been done about climate and other things. That's really up to business. Because you have those resources... the government part is just about electronic I&R. That starts with cattle, and you can do that to pigs and so on. But you're giving business the resources through the level playing field you create. Then we will also underpin market concepts with data. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u208	It's kind of weird, Mr. Secretary, that a minister is interviewing MPs. That's possible, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u209	I understand, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u210	You can also just have coffee together for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u211	Of course, that is always good, but I was really confused about what Mr De Groot meant. This might help to avoid a second deadline on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u212	Yes, then Mr De Groot will no longer have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u213	I'm going to make a commitment to Mr. De Groot, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u214	If you could also ask Mr Eerdmans a question, I can also take away his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u215	May I make another commitment to Mr De Groot, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u216	Always.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u217	I am going to promise Mr De Groot that I will see if we can actually introduce this. I am also going to see what we can learn from countries like Austria and Denmark, which are already a little further along with this. So this is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u218	A commitment to learning. Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u219	I asked the Minister: is what we see, the tip of the iceberg? Is this the tip of the iceberg or are they rare excesses? In other words, if we put a camera on all those slaughterhouses in the Netherlands tonight, what do we see? Unfortunately, do we see a constant course of wrongdoing or are you saying that this will be the high exception? When we get undercover images of something, I always notice that it's bad news. Does this mean we don't see a lot of undercover images? Or does this mean we run into abuses every time we go somewhere with undercover cameras? I'm actually worried about that. My gut says it's not okay. It's not okay. We're not doing it right. As long as we do a few pin shots, we'll see what kind of shit comes out of those abattoirs. That doesn't feel right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u220	I just wanted to close that up. I wanted to conclude by saying that I hope that what we see on video footage is real incidents. I really hope that there is a responsibility on the part of entrepreneurs a in the primary sector, b in the transport sector and c in the processing of these animals into meat on the plate. I trust this will be done in a responsible manner. We're gonna need some mechanisms to check that out. I can do better than that. That could be sharper. You can do that with new techniques. That's what we're gonna do. I also appeal here to the parties that are working on this every day, to deal with it responsibly, in a good way. I really hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u221	With good intentions alone, we won't make it. That's what you said. That's why the work and camera surveillance are good. The same goes for the barns and the cattle transports. That's exactly what I'm judging. You see discoveries over and over again and think: how can that exist? We're all tabling a number of motions for that. JA21 will be under there, too. I have another question, because I also asked the Minister what the fine is for cooking a pig alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u222	I don't have an answer to that, Mr. Chairman. I really need to check on that. I don't have that ready, so I'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u223	Did I understand correctly that the Minister has finished his reply? 'Cause I'm missing some answers. In my view, I had asked whether the Minister was prepared to cooperate with the meat sector in drawing up the review framework and to make rapid progress. I had another question about the testing framework that already exists in the chicken sector, where speed increases have only taken place after investigations by independent experts. Does the Minister think it is right that companies that have already invested in it on the basis of an agreement with the government should not be able to achieve an increase in speed? Does the Minister agree with me that we should also honour our own commitments? I haven't had an answer to that either. I also asked what we want with the meat sector in the Netherlands. Do we want to scale it down and eventually move it abroad, hidden from our eyes? Or do we want to strengthen the sector and keep the slaughter sector here? I don't have an answer to that either. I think that's it. Maybe there's still some answers to this. That is also allowed in the second term, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u224	I think that's the best thing to do. I can answer some questions... Let me put them together for a moment. Then I'll come back to those three questions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u225	In the second term. Mr Graus and then we really go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u226	I have the same problem. If Mrs Van der Plas does not receive an answer until the second term, she will no longer be able to make any motions. I have the following problem. I asked for permanent pre- and post-mortem checks by duo teams. The minister did deal with the weapons of the animal police. That's exactly why I'd like the animal police to be there. What's going to happen to the vets who reported to me and former Minister Schouten? They are just anxious, scared and cannot carry out such control with the help of the strong hand. Don't we have to help these people? We're already short on vets. That's a question I had. My final point, Mr President, and that is what I have been asking for my political life: a professional ban. A director of a slaughterhouse can, of course, be punished by closing the tent, but if it is someone who has worked on the slaughter line, he must be given a professional ban and not be able to go back to work elsewhere, at another slaughterhouse. Because that happens all the time: then they get ripped out and then they continue to mistreat animals at another slaughterhouse. Of course, we shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u227	I'm not in a position to impose a professional ban. I'm able to express my disgust at things that don't fit. That is what has been done here. In reply to Mr Graus' questions, it cannot be that veterinarians do not feel safe in that environment. It can't be. If so, then I like to hear names and numbers and then I'm going to make sure that there is a safe working environment. Because it can't be that people are intimidated and people can't do their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u228	Fine. So much for the first term. Then let me see if there is any interest in a second term among the High Representative Members. That's the case. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u229	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet is committed to mandatory camera surveillance in slaughterhouses;]] [[whereas the NVWA currently only looks back a small part of the camera images once or twice a month and must be present at the slaughterhouse itself;]] [[calls on the Government to present a plan for live streaming of camera images from slaughterhouses to be monitored remotely by NVWA and any other enforcers, taking into account the privacy of staff or supervisors in the slaughterhouse, before the summer recess;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a compulsory inspection in slaughterhouses to be carried out by an NVWA veterinarian to establish that an animal is actually dead before it ends up in a boiler or is further cut open,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the NVWA itself can decide where the cameras are placed in slaughterhouses and to prevent blind spots,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to align the number of animals bred, used and killed with the monitoring that can be carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1238]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1239]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1240]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member forestering.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u230	Finally, Mr President. It is important that the NVWA should always have access to the images of camera surveillance in slaughterhouses. That is why I shall vote on the motion that I tabled with Mrs Beckerman on the ownership of these images next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u231	When did you file that motion earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u232	That was on July 8, 2021, the Vestering/Beckerman motion about making sure that camera images from slaughterhouses become the property of the government. That motion was filed at the time. Finally, I have a letter from that health department, which I would like to hand over to the Minister through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u233	Thank you, and thank you for your conciseness. Then Mr Tjeerd de Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I have missed the answer to the question on COdewelming, so if that answer can still come in second term, very much. Thank you for the Minister's commitment to look at Denmark, Ireland and Austria, how the introduction of electronic identification and registration takes place there, and to prepare for that. Perhaps the Minister could come back to that before the forthcoming committee debate on NVWA. That would be very nice. Then I have one more motion, about the tire speed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research indicates that higher tyre speeds pose risks to animal welfare and food safety;]] [[Whereas, in 2020, the Chamber adopted the De Groot motion (33835, No. 156) adopted a substantial reduction in tyre speed in slaughterhouses where incidents occur regularly, but the tyre speed has not been substantially reduced everywhere;]] [[noting that while measures can be taken to reduce the risks of a tyre speed, the tyre speed is now only reviewed if there is a request to increase it;]] [[Calls on the Government to re-evaluate the tyre speed of all slaughterhouses in view of the risks and the extent to which measures to do so offer sufficient solutions both in practice and in theory;]] [[points out that applying CO stunning should not be a mitigating measure to increase tyre speed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1242]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u235	That's very nice, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u236	Was this your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u237	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u238	Mrs Bromet has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u239	Yeah, I have a question. Is this not a weakening of Mr De Groot's previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u240	Let me put it this way. It is a hand-out to the Minister, where the legal possibilities are currently lacking. Meanwhile, research has been done by Wageningen University on the risk factors in reducing the tyre speed. You can go to a slaughterhouse, I mentioned a few slaughterhouses where hygiene was not in order, see if there is any reason to lower the tyre speed, just as long as there is an improvement plan. So you can see it as an effect of the motion and a hand-off to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u241	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u242	I get it. I think it is very constructive of D66, but I also find it incredible that we in the Chamber adopt motions that are not being carried out. I do not think that is good for our democratic system.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u243	That is what the President agrees with. So far. Then Mrs. Beckerman of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister began by saying that he would rather not have stood here. That's a feeling I recognize. Above all, I would like to prevent us from standing here again, because something has come to light that really cannot stand the light of day: abuses in another butchery. I think it is very good that pressure is being put from the Chamber and that the Minister has seen it and made promises, but it is taking a very long time. This may be a new cabinet, but it is, of course, just a continuation of the previous one. Mr. Chairman. That is why I would like to support the motions that have been tabled before and I would also like to add one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that certain practices and stunning and killing methods are currently permitted, which have been scientifically proven not to be animal-friendly;]] [[having noted that the Minister of LNV indicated that CO-infestation of pigs should be phased out because it is not animal-friendly;]] [[Whereas avoidable animal suffering in slaughterhouses should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government not to authorise slaughterhouses wishing to go over to stunning with CO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1243]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u245	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u246	Thank you. Then Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u247	Mr. Chairman. I will also show my constructive side and come up with a proposal. I hope that if the motion is adopted, it will also be implemented. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the algorithms for smart camera surveillance in slaughterhouses still need to be developed and can only be taught with practical images;]] [[Whereas, hopefully, abuses occur only occasionally and therefore only rarely on camera images, which makes it more difficult to learn how to recognise abuses by cameras;]] [[Whereas the technique of making human faces unrecognizable already works and the privacy of employees is not at stake;]] [[Calls on the Government to publicly stream the camera images for each slaughterhouse during the learning period of algorithms and to call on citizens to report possible abuses so that the smart cameras learn to recognise them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1244]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a motion ready for the duo teams with the police and vets at high-risk checks. I do not want to do so, because the Minister has already indicated that if there is danger, he wants to take it up. I'll leave it at that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure permanent surveillance (in addition to physical checks) in slaughterhouses for the benefit of the animal police and NVWA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1245]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u249	This motion was co-signed by animal friend Eerdmans. If it's too close to that of Vestering and Beckerman, I have to take a look at that, then maybe we could draw it with it and we can leave it out. But I didn't know they were being put to the vote. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to prevent a rotational system within the NVWA teams in order to prevent intimidations or excessively close links with the slaughterhouse management and staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1246]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u250	This motion is also co-signed by animal friend Eerdmans. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to impose high fines in relation to the crime, imprisonment, professional ban and a life-long ban on the keeping of animals for recidivists within slaughterhouses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1247]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u251	This motion has also been co-signed by animal ambassador Eerdmans. And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow the permanent closure of recurrent slaughterhouses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1248]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u252	This motion is also co-signed by our pet buddy Eerdmans. The word "relapse" is a very important word in the motion. Thank you. Blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u253	Greetings to the pet buddy. Mr Van Campen from the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u254	Mr. Chairman. There are two cats waiting for me at home, so I join in the list of animal buddies. Mr. Chairman. Three motions for resolutions, because thanks to the Minister's commitments, but we think it is important to give a number of frameworks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the NVWA is further developing the enhanced monitoring procedure for slaughterhouses;]] [[noting that the government is also considering whether any form of a point system or similar can help to further develop enhanced supervision;]] [[considers that the sanctions and consequences resulting from the conduct and/or authorisation of independently proven abuses should be crystal clear in advance;]] [[further considers that this should not mean that supervisors should be less quick to issue warnings or draw up reports because too many offences are not already punished;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a three strikes out enforcement proposal when drawing up the enhanced monitoring procedure for slaughterhouses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that in September 2021 the NVWA in its evaluation "camera monitoring slaughterhouses animal welfare' indicates that legal basic camera monitoring can make it more effective and efficient;]] [[noting that the government is preparing legislation to make camera surveillance more effective and efficient;]] [[Considers that images in slaughterhouses that can be read at a distance in real time contribute to the prevention and detection of abuses in slaughterhouses and thus provide a powerful complement to physical supervision in slaughterhouses;]] [[calls on the government to develop as a basic condition in the framework of the AVG camera surveillance, which can be read at a distance in real time, in the legislation in preparation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Campen and Eerdmans.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1249]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Tjeerd de Groot and Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u255	I've got another one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u256	Looks like it's at least that long, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u257	This is the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has around 100 small-scale butchers, mainly for sale in its own shop and less for sale to third parties;]] [[noting that this traditional method of slaughter is characterised by the fact that the "slaughter crew" consists of two to four butchers involved in all steps in the slaughter process;]] [[considers that this group ensures that consumers can consciously opt for a locally artisan piece of meat produced;]] [[Considers that the monitoring and inspection process should also meet all the requirements of these companies, but that tailor-made rules are necessary for these companies to ensure their survival;]] [[calls on the Government to pay explicit attention to tailor-made rules for self-slaughtering butchers in all preparatory legislation and regulations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Campen, Boswijk, Van der Plas and Tjeerd de Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u258	Thank you for your coulance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u259	One more question from Mr Thijssen. Oh... There's an oxygen tank in the wings waiting for you. The next speaker will then be Mr Thijssen of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions from my first term have not been answered, so let me repeat them. One of them deals with the level of fines. Does the Minister think it is sufficiently terrifying? The second question concerns the ownership of camera surveillance images. Are those footage from the NVWA or the abattoirs? I think we will get an answer to that in the appreciation of the motion of the Party for Animals. The Minister is working on a vision of agriculture. Should there not also be an objective for animal welfare in this view, in relation to animal welfare in the slaughterhouses? I'd like a reaction to that, too. Still about lowering the tire speed. The Minister doesn't want to carry out the motion, because he wants to do an investigation first. In his letter he also writes a lot about possible legal objections. It's not entirely clear to me. Can the Minister simply say that we are reducing the speed of tyres and perhaps we are increasing them once again if all the conditions are met? Or can't I? Can it be legal or not? I think he's done it before, and he can. I'd like to know exactly. Finally, Mr President, I find it unprecedented that the Minister is not directly carrying out the motion of the House of Representatives on the speed of tyres. The House of Representatives has spoken. I think the Minister should listen. My group is disappointed about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u261	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Eerdmans of the JA group21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u262	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is positive that the Minister intends to start pilots with "smart camera surveillance" in slaughterhouses using artificial intelligence;]] [[Whereas, in addition to "smart camera surveillance," human surveillance should be maintained in slaughterhouses;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that NVWA continues to carry out physical inspections in slaughterhouses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Eerdmans, Mr Van Campen, Mr Graus, Mr Vestering and Mr Boswijk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u263	I can see the Minister's nodding. The motion has been tabled partly on behalf of the animal friends Van Campen, Graus, Vestering and Boswijk. I challenge the other Members to vote in favour of this motion as well, because, although I say so myself, she has been quite successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u264	I always like it when people support their own motions. It's a parliamentary unique, I can tell you. Then Mrs Van der Plas of the BBB Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u265	I'm not gonna say another word. I can't get past this. It's too much. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that camera surveillance with artificial intelligence can help relieve the NVWA;]] [[Whereas slaughterhouses that perform well can handle occasional supervision by NVWA and structural surveillance by camera surveillance;]] [[calls on the Government to allow structural monitoring by camera surveillance with artificial intelligence to take place at well performing slaughterhouses so that NVWA can free capacity where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that researchers advise to assess an abattoir that aims to increase the rate of slaughter using a review framework;]] [[Considering that a review framework identifies all animal welfare, food safety and the labelling process risks and thus assesses whether the slaughter rate can be increased;]] [[Whereas a review framework contributes to the desired implementation of the slaughter process in slaughterhouses;]] [[calls on the Government to set up, in the short term, a framework for checking the speed of slaughter, in consultation with interested parties, and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1253]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Plas.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-1254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u266	This motion is pending the Minister's reply. On the basis of that reply, I shall decide whether I am really going to make the motion. Actually, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u267	Thank you. The last speaker is Mr Boswijk of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a pigeon fancier and owner of one rabbit I also join the animal friends. I'm just afraid to talk to my colleague Graus about it, because before you know it, it's your last words. Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. Although, of course, it is a worthless subject, I thought it was a nice debate. I think it is very important that this monitoring should be carried out, especially for the slaughterhouses which are doing a very good job. This transparency is very important. However, I do object to Mr Bromet's motion, in which the camera footage is completely public, so that everyone can look at it at random. With this you put all functioning employees in all slaughterhouses immediately in the debt bank. I do not think that this contributes to the task we are facing and to the sensitivities that exist. I hope she is considering this motion, because this simply does not contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u269	Was this your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u270	That was him.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u271	A question from Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u272	From now on, it will be useful to ask me questions when I make that motion. I made it very clear in the motion that the employees are unrecognizable. We can do that. It is not the intention at all to throw employees at some kind of popular tribunal, absolutely not. The condition is that they are unrecognizable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u273	I was late to get up, but I'm glad we can exchange this for now. I had heard that they should be unrecognizable, but that your entire working environment... I shouldn't think that the whole of the Netherlands can see my office all day, even if I'm unrecognizable. That just seems like an unsafe feeling to me. I understand your concerns; I share those concerns for a part as well. I think a lot of people in the sector share these concerns. But I just don't think it's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u274	Clear. Very briefly, Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u275	I think we're all being filmed all day. So it's nothing new.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u276	Apologies, Mr. Chairman, but that's what we choose. We have a job and a salary... I don't think that's comparable. Besides, I sit in my office a lot, I close the door, and when journalists walk by, I pretend to be on the phone a lot. By the way, I know someone else who does.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u277	That trick looks familiar to me. Mr De Groot is making school, I'm just saying. At 10:05 p.m., we're gonna listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u278	The Minister has the floor. I hope that we will be able to conclude this debate quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a little correction to make. That has to do with Mr De Groot's question on enhanced supervision. Mr De Groot asked that question. Are all farms under enhanced supervision already part of the slaughterhouse monitor? That is not the case at the moment. Well, it's an interesting idea, so I'm definitely working on it. But at the moment, it hasn't. Then I come to Mr Thijssen's question as to whether it is legally possible to reduce that speed. No. There's no legal basis. That's one of the problems. I've told you in detail what my position is. I have also put my ideas on it, but in the end there is no legal basis at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u280	Thank you to the Minister for this answer. I was considering a motion to create a legal basis so that that tire speed can go down. But can the Minister promise that he will create that legal basis? Because that is necessary to carry out the motion of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u281	I understand what Mr Thijssen is saying. I explained clearly in the first period what the situation is and what I have to do. Along the lines of these commitments, I want to do my job. Then to the fines, the amount of the fines. Do they have a deterrent effect? Of course, you never know if a fine really has enough financial impact. The question was what at the boiler, the living cooking, the costs. That's $2,500 fine. I find it difficult to answer the question whether it is too low or too high. Then there is the question of a review framework for Mrs van der Plas' meat sector. Is the Minister prepared to work on that? The answer to that is yes. Then slaughter speed. Is it true that there is already a review framework for the poultry sector, where speed increases can only take place after testing, inter alia by the WUR? Yeah, the answer to that is, too. Currently, the Policy Rule Increase Line Speed Chicken Abattoirs is in force. Arbotic research is also included. The NVWA is currently working on strengthening the review framework. As soon as it is in force, so when that new review framework is ready, this Policy Rule Increase line speed chick abattoirs will be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u282	The Minister's first answer was a full yes, cooperating with the meat sector in a review framework. But "yes" is a bit vague to me, because how is the Minister going to do that? What can we expect from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u283	Two lines. The NVWA is currently working on this and the results of the WUR study are also taken into account. This will certainly also be discussed with the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u284	And the WUR is the agricultural university in Wageningen, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u285	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u286	Can the Minister then inform us before the summer of how that went and how it went, otherwise I will simply submit the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u287	It's already filed, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u288	Yes. Otherwise, I won't hold the motion, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u289	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u290	Of course, what I can tell you is what I'm doing, but I don't know if I can do it before the summer. If Mrs Van der Plas gives me the room to see what is possible, I would like to see if that can be accelerated as best as possible. However, it must be worked out properly, because there too care is important. So if that's possible before the summer, I can't promise that. Then there is the question: what vision do you have of the sector, the meat production sector? That is actually Mrs van der Plas's specific question. Of course, I want perspective for all sectors in the Netherlands, but animal welfare is really an important thing. That's gotta be locked up. If that is not the case, we have to conclude that it has to be different and different. That is the perspective through which I see the market developing. Let's see. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the motions. I'll try to do that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u291	I appreciate that, but a question from Mr Eerdmans has not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u292	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u293	What's the fine on cooking pigs alive?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u294	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u295	Oh, wasn't I there then? Was that all at the beginning?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u296	That's $2,500.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u297	$2,500 fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u298	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u299	And what do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u300	I have just said: I do not know whether that will have sufficient effect to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u301	The answer seems to me to be no, so there is work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u302	Fine. Mr Thijssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u303	I was still thinking about it, about this answer. I do not know whether €2,500 is high or low, but I would think that the NVWA has some kind of enforcement strategy or enforcement plan that combines the chances of an offender being caught and what is the fine that is to be paid, so that the incentive is big enough that we are not going to cook pigs alive in this country or cause other animal welfare problems. Can the Minister send information to the Chamber? What is the NVWA's enforcement plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u304	I would like to send everything to your Chamber, but the question is put here whether €2,500 is sufficient to stop these practices. I have said to the Chamber a number of times that I find it incredibly wrong that such situations occur. I don't know if the amount of the fine is €2,500 or €25,000 and if that's enough to stop this. I think the system needs to be changed so it doesn't happen anymore. A number of things are possible for that. That's where we have to make sure it doesn't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u305	Of course, I fully agree with the Minister that we need to change the system so that it can not go wrong. But until we've changed the system, we've been working on it for quite a few years. In my group's view, it is important that the opportunity for action is big enough and that the fine is high enough, so that everyone in this sector thinks: I am not going to burn my fingers on that. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister to share with us the NVWA's enforcement strategy, so that we can see that, as long as this system is still in place, there is a sufficient chance of getting things to a halt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u306	I assume that this debate will also contribute to transparency, that it will put the finger on the sore spot where this kind of situation is concerned, and that the industry is now convinced that this kind of thing should not happen again. I promised the Chamber I'd do everything I can to prevent this. I'm going to have the conversation with NVWA. I have commitments from the NVWA. I don't know if that should depend on the level of fines. Whether it's €2,500 or €5,000 or €25,000; it's about taking responsibility, corporate responsibility, also responsible in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u307	Fine. Mr. Eerdmans again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u308	To support Mr Thijssen, I have always learned: the risk of punishment is punitive. So either we're gonna have to raise that chance or we're gonna have to raise that penalty, preferably both. But if the chance of getting caught is low, I really do not think that it deters €2,500, apart from the normalization of what we think when a pig is cooked alive, from the pain it endures and the atrocities it entails. That's unbelievable. That defies any imagination, as I have already said to the Minister. This is really a far too low sentence for crimes of this kind, even if you see it throughout the criminal system, because I think this is actually a crime. I would like to ask the Minister to reflect now or perhaps later on on what he wants to do with the measure of punishment or the chance of getting caught in the current rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u309	I don't know what else to say. I have said a number of times that I find this really disgusting. I assume that the way in which we are now working on the legal regulation of camera surveillance and the call I have heard from Mrs Beckerman to introduce it with the sector as soon as possible will clean up this kind of situation. Then I'll go to the motions. The motion-Festering in part No. 1238 on behalf of the Party for Animals I would advise against, because I cannot meet the question that is being asked before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u310	Mrs Vestering, briefly, point one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u311	Very briefly. When can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u312	I'll take it with me in the bill. That is the answer to your question. I've laid down the timeline for that. That's really not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u313	I'll do one question per motion. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u314	The motion in part No. 1239 I also advise against. The motion in part No. 1240 I leave judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u315	We're not voting right now, so we don't just have to say "for" or "against." I would also like to ask the Minister to explain why something is being dissuaded or left to the Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u316	Mr. Chairman has asked me to pass the motions briefly and pointily, but I am willing to give motivation. The judgment is therefore dissuaded. The company must establish that there are no signs of life before the first slaughter is carried out. That really is the responsibility of the company itself. The NVWA supervises and checks that the rules are properly implemented. That's why. The motion-Festering in part No. 1240 I give judgment Chamber. The bill will ensure that cameras are placed where the NVWA deems it necessary for proper supervision. The motion in part No. 1242 I dissuade on behalf of the cabinet, because this is not the responsibility of the government. The sector has to organize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u317	Thank you. Did you have the motion in part No. Have you commented on 1241?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u318	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u319	What was the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u320	Oh, wait a minute, that was the motion on part number one. 1241. Sorry. The latter was about the motion in part No. 1241. I advise against it, because that is not the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u321	Okay. Mrs. Vestering.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u322	We are talking not only about animal welfare, but also about food safety. The inspection department itself states: we can't make it happen; we can't vouch for the inspections we're doing now. Now you say: that is not the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u323	It is stated in the operative part of the motion that the government requests that the number of animals bred, used and killed be aligned with the monitoring that can be carried out. The government's opinion is that we are not recommending the motion, because that is not the responsibility of the government. The sector needs to organize this. The motion-De Groot in part No. 1242 is about the tire speed. As far as the cabinet is concerned, we leave the judgment to the Chamber, adding that there will be a new review framework. Then I'll definitely make the corridor along the slaughterhouses. I can see Mr Van Campen watching. The motion is about the fact that the application of CO stunning should not be a mitigating measure to increase the tyre speed. Judgement is up to the Chamber. Then there is Mrs Beckerman's question about not allowing us to switch to CO stunning. That was a question she owed her. I can be clear about that. I also do not think CO stunning is a desirable application. If I may read the motion in such a way that I will do everything in my power to phase it out at European level, then I can leave it to the Chamber to decide. I am really struggling with European regulation. I cannot ban it in a national context. That's the struggle I have myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u324	Mrs. Beckerman, is that a confirmation? That's a confirmation, so the motion gets in part no. 1243 Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u325	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u326	Then the motion to part No. 1244.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u327	The Bromet motion in part No. 1244 belongs to GroenLinks. I'd advise against that, too. Then there is the Graus/Eerdmans motion in part No. 1245. Of course, I am already working on mandatory camera surveillance, including legislation for the supervision of NVWA. That's why I'm deposing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u328	There is a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u329	I have made it very clear: for the benefit of the animal police and the NVWA. As I said, that is a bit in line with the motion that Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Vestering may be tabling. It has to be in government hands. I specifically mentioned that the animal police and NVWA should be able to have permanent access to it. That is something else, because it is not included in the law. So that's something new.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u330	I have mentioned a number of times in my contribution that I see the NVWA as an instance in which the camera images can perfectly get their place. If there are things that need to be looked at by the animal police, that is of course not a problem. But it is not at first that it is a plus that the animal police and the NVWA have access to it. That is also the reason why the cabinet is dissuading this motion. Also the motion in part No. 1246 on the rotation system: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u331	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u332	Mr Van Campen has the floor. Go ahead, Mr. Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u333	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I find it difficult, because Mr Graus' motion is a very sympathetic one. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: does he consider that the animal police are also explicitly appointed here as part of the monitoring framework? Or does the Minister say, "No, we're working on it, so: dissuade"? The motion could then be given a ruling on the Chamber, because then the cabinet and the Chamber as co-legislator would join forces here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u334	That's the case. Mr Van Campen is really exposing it clearly. We are, of course, still working on the whole development of that system. I want to see what the proper methods and agencies are. Look, as far as I'm concerned, there's no discussion of the NVWA, nor of the animal police. Mr Graus initiated it. The animal police are an agency that does very good work. But whether or not that's the right authority to control that camera surveillance, that's another question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u335	But I find it rather strange, because other motions say 'I agree' and then they get judgment Chamber. But you say to me: I agree, but it is not recommended. Then I'll just take the word "animal police" out. 'Cause animal police can get anywhere the NVWA goes. Then I'm just gonna take that word out. Then we'll be out and we'll get the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u336	I am not allowed to give the opinion, but it may also be that Mr Graus is holding on to this motion and is looking at how developments around that camera surveillance are continuing. But right now, on the basis of this text, I have no choice but to advise her. Then I come to the motion on part No. 1247.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u337	Mrs. Van der Plas.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u338	I didn't know I was allowed to respond to a motion tabled by others. Sometimes this chairman is a little harsh on that, but tonight he's a little more accommodating. With your agreement, I would like to return to the motion for a resolution on item No. 1243. An international study is being conducted on alternatives to CO stunning. So far, no research has shown an alternative that would be better. Now I hear the Minister say: if I can phase it out at European level, I will. Anyway, "European phase-out" doesn't say here. It just says here: "abattoirs who want to switch to stunning with CO not to give permission for this." But there is no alternative at all. And I would urge the Minister to take that into account. Because what happens if there's no alternative? Then we're going to do something else that might lead to even less animal welfare. I don't think that's a sensible motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u339	The motion calls for a response from the cabinet. I mentioned the reaction of the cabinet. I also know that other methods are being looked at on a European scale. We hope there will be a method that does justice to animal welfare, but I do not know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u340	She's judgment room, so you can just vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u341	Sure, I know. But I know people are gonna be out of emotion around here. Because it all sounds so sympathetic, but the previous minister here in the Chamber has also literally said that we should just have an alternative to intoxicating with CO. If we are going to introduce this or vote in favour of this motion, I am very concerned. This seems to be very good for animal welfare, but I doubt what will happen next.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u342	That is your vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u343	The judgment of the cabinet will be no different. Then the motion to part No. 1247. We also advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 1248.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u344	We're missing No. 1246 still, I thought. That's the Graus motion about a rotation system within the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u345	Yeah, it's about rotation systems. I didn't advise them on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u346	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u347	The motion in part No. So 1247 has also been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 1248 is not recommended, because we really need to look at this case by case. The motion in part No. 1249 by Mr Van Campen is about three strikes out. I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. I have already said a few things about this in my motivation a moment ago. I'm not gonna repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u348	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u349	I've stuck with two judgments, but in the motion of me and Mr. Eerdmans in part number. 1248 we call on the government to close down recurrent slaughterhouses permanently. Obviously, you can't. If someone is a recidivist and does it over and over again, then it should be possible to have a final closure. That has actually been our whole purpose of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u350	I can repeat it again. I have said to your Chamber a number of times that if there are and remain abuses, the consequences are incredibly obvious. Then it can't be other than that the key goes in the lock and it closes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u351	The motion in part No. 1250.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u352	The motion in part No. 1250 is about camera surveillance. This motion, too, will be judged by the Chamber, but with the condition that this is technically possible. The motion in part No. 1251 is about the self-slaughtering butchers. I didn't know there were 100 more; that's a fun fact. This is, of course, a sympathetic motion. This motion would like to take over the cabinet, because I fully agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u353	Mr Van Campen is a celebrated person with the self-slaughtering butchers tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u354	You'll make what you think of it, Mr. Van Campen and Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u355	Mr. Graus has one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u356	I also tend to find this a very sympathetic motion, but do those 100 self-slaying butchers include ritual martyrs? I don't know about that right now. Can the Minister inform us about this? I don't know if ritual slaughters are taking place here. I think, according to my information, that's true. Then I cannot advise my group. Then I must object to the motion being taken over. How are we gonna do that? How do I find out if here...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u357	Then you just turn around and ask Mr Van Campen.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u358	Yes, Mr. Van Campen, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u359	The lines in the Lower House are sometimes short. He's even coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u360	It is quite clear in the motion, too, that there cannot be parties who do not comply with the laws and regulations. These slaughter lots must also comply with the animal welfare and food safety starting points. I would like to thank the Minister for his appreciation of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u361	Mr Graus is satisfied. The motion in part No. 1252.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u362	Also the motion in part No. 1252 is judged by the Cabinet Chamber. It is currently a European obligation. That's not gonna change, either, as it looks. The motion in part No. 1253 is the motion on camera surveillance with artificial intelligence. I have already said something about this in an earlier contribution: first I want to wait for the results of the pilots and the monitoring and then I want to draw conclusions. So on the basis of this text, we advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 1254 is in line with my approach. I'd like to leave that motion to the House's judgment. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u363	Very good. It seems to me that this has brought us to the end of the debate. We thank the Minister for his presence and his participation this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u364	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-17-tweedekamer-22.u365	On Tuesday we shall vote on the 17 motions for resolutions. So much for this debate. I shall close the sitting on 17 May 2022.
