ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on combating discrimination and racism. I warmly welcome the Ministers of Justice, Security and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations in our midst. We have four minutes' speaking time. I would like to agree with you that we are keeping the number of interruptions somewhat limited. I'd say we do four questions. I think that's enough. So that's not four interruptions in threes, that's four questions. If you can agree, I will be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Baarle van DENK. If he's there, because I don't see him. He's here, but I don't see him right now. Mr. Van Baarle? Oh! There you are. The floor is yours. I see you have a sidecar with a number of boxes. I hope that's not your text! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands is in a racism crisis. That's what the tests next to me show. Studies show that 90% of brokers discriminate, that four out of ten temporary employment agencies discriminate, that a huge percentage of young people experience internship discrimination and that young people with a migration background receive a structurally lower level of school advice. And so there are even more shocking results in these studies. However, discrimination and racism have been systematically downplayed and denied for many years. The people who raised it were often told: you get into a victim role. Or: that structural racism and discrimination occur is an opinion. Well, Mr. Chairman, it's not an opinion. It's a fact. Structural racism and discrimination are a fact. That's why I brought the tests here next to me. They show that there is structural discrimination in the Netherlands. I ask the messengers to make these investigations available in the archives to colleagues who do not need to be copied, and in particular to Mr Eerdmans, because in this Chamber there are still too many non-discrimination deniers. For many Members of Parliament, 'institutional racism' or 'ethnic profiling' are still words they prefer not to express. We have also called parties such as the PVV, JA21..... BVNL and Forum for Democracy: parties who deny that discrimination is a structural problem at all. Reality deniers. It's worse than that. I also see too little recognition by the government of this reality, too little urgency. We see a government that makes nice plans to combat discrimination without adding a single penny to the implementation of these plans. Empty casings. Zero euros. How can we really tackle discrimination and racism if there are no extras to the implementation in terms of money? How is the urgency shown when things are put off on a state committee and put off, if it takes time for a definition of "racism" to come at all and if the government continues to use algorithms without knowing whether those algorithms might discriminate? Mr. Chairman. In order to tackle the problem of discrimination and racism, we need to do more in every part of the chain, for example in the criminal justice chain. Of the 6.141 reports of discrimination to the police, only 2% ended up with the D.A.'s office. Then, of this 2%, only a third went to court. Do you know how many of those 6,141 reports of discrimination in the police eventually led to a conviction? I'll take a look around. 46. There were 46 convictions on 6.141 reports of discrimination in the police. I ask the Minister: are all these reports of discrimination made to the police, then bad reports or something? Is that all because of the evidence? I don't think so. Or is the lousy number of 46 convictions a sign on the wall and is it just not going well enough in the criminal justice chain? And what specific measures is the Minister prepared to take to deal with this? Mr. Chairman. Another part of that chain is awareness. I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. I understand that we are not currently conducting any public campaign to combat discrimination. Is that right? Is this the case? Finally, Mr President. DENK has tabled numerous motions that have been adopted, calling for plans against discrimination, a plan against institutional racism, against Muslim hatred, against housing market discrimination, against labour market discrimination. We want to speed up the fight against discrimination. When can we look forward to the implementation of these government plans? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you very much. I would suggest that the reports be made available to you at the Central Information Point. Can you agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u4	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u5	Well, that's gonna happen for you. If you leave the cart for a moment, the messenger will remove it in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u6	There's an interruption for you from Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u7	No, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a suggestion. Mr Van Baarle said that it does not all have to be digitized and distributed. Perhaps we could ask the CIP to set up a separate table so that we can read them over the next few days, perhaps after an invitation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u8	I think that was exactly what I was suggesting. Fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u9	Let's take a look at the shape. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Belhaj of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. How good of Mr Van Baarle to make it visible in such a way how much is actually already happening. We talk about it a lot, but this is very confrontational. It is right to do so, because if you are not careful every now and then, you will sink into debates and forget how much is already there. Mr. Chairman. In Giethoorn, a mother and her son sat the endless racist dung and intimidation so that they left their home. We were too late for them. That is why today's question, also for us as D66, is: how are we going to ensure that victims of racism and discrimination are properly helped in the future? First of all, what was previously promised in the committee debate. Has the Minister of JenV visited this family by now? Has anyone talked to the mayor who apparently didn't see a role for himself? What about the commitment of the Minister of State to look at the responsibility of mayors in local anti-discrimination policies in small municipalities? What about the investigation into the handling of this case within the police, which I asked for in writing? In that light, I am very pleased that the specialised anti-discrimination detectives, which D66 asked for in 2020, are now really going to be there. Can the Minister of JenV indicate when the detectives are going to start, and what exactly will their task package look like? Mr. Chairman. Then there are anti-discrimination provisions. The Minister of State has set out a number of actions to improve the system of anti-discrimination provisions, including the development and improvement of hand-outs for municipalities. Compliments for that, but the real question is what happens to these kind of handouts. For example, we saw in the police that a professional control framework was only known to 4% of the agents. So the main question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how is she going to make sure that all these beautiful hand-outs really make the difference? And now that the Minister of JenV is here: what about the framework of action? In the meantime, has that percentage been increased? Because measuring is knowing. In the meantime, we have more and more insight into the impact of racism and discrimination on our society. Last week, for example, we read that last year the Public Prosecutor's Office received 76 more claims of discrimination than in 2020. Earlier this year, the Security Monitor also came out, which read that only 2% of people who experience discrimination report this to the police. That brings me to my point. We have all kinds of numbers, from the police, from the D.A.'s office and from the ADVs and the Security Monitor. But sometimes I think: we miss the overall picture. The security monitor has become a thing. That comes out, and then everyone who follows knows: it goes well or it doesn't. What exactly is this experience like? It's a kind of calibration moment, which gives you a kind of constant focus instead of: there's an incident; we pull up the reports and then go back and see if we update things, or we do it with an annual report or with a budget. That is why I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is it not time for us to make a structural insight into what that overall picture looks like, with some sort of barometer of racism and discrimination? This is also so that we have a framework for measuring the national coordinator's work programme on combating discrimination and racism. Because there's gonna be a program, the minister's gonna give you things to do, there's gonna be research, and before you know it, you're gonna look at all these elements separately. But of course you want to have some kind of focus in it, and also that as a Chamber we can better control what the government is doing. The national coordinator's work programme on combating discrimination and racism is awaiting this with great regret. Can the Minister indicate when exactly that is ready? And if we have that programme, will the targets that Mr Van Baarle tabled a motion on be taken into account right away? And is everything ready for implementation, or are we going to go over it again for months? The times of exploring and consulting are now over. It's time for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you. I'll take a look. There is another interruption for you, from Mr Van Baarle, if I understand correctly? Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u13	Yes, Mr. Chairman. May I thank Mrs Belhaj for her contribution? It doesn't lack good intentions. And I also know D66 as a party that wants to tackle discrimination. What concerns me is that we have a lot of good intentions with each other, we are going to make a lot of plans, we want to do some extras in the fight against discrimination in recruitment and selection among others, but we do not see any intensification of implementation. We saw in the coalition agreement that there was only something of money going to the national coordinator, but nothing of execution. So I would like to ask Mrs Belhaj whether she shares the concern that we have a great deal of ambition with each other but just zero extra money, and whether she would be willing to support a plea from DENK on behalf of D66. Because there has simply been an outstretched hand in the spring paper to strengthen financially on this anti-discrimination approach. I think that's really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u14	That's a very nice invitation. If there are things written down in the coalition agreement that show that there are insufficient financial resources to implement them, I would like to hear that. I am asking this question now. I don't doubt you, but I'd like that to be insightful. Two: of course, if necessary, we're just going to look creatively at what we can do. You said it yourself in your speech, and you tried to prove it. Besides being angry, you've also been sad and disappointed, but then you'll be despondent. You don't really want to, because people are just counting on things to happen right now. They went out on the street. It's been discussed. There have been articles written about it. For the sense of recognition that something really happens, you must also have a willingness from this place to show it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u15	Indeed, we must not become discouraged and we must show those people who went out on the streets to fight and demonstrate against racism that we are doing something. What disappointed me in that is that there is simply no extra penny for the execution. I have already got the signals at the moment. I will not make them concrete. That's what I hear from different parts of the chain. That's why I'm so worried. Because the moment we radiate a great deal of ambition towards all those people who demonstrated and then we don't deliver because we find out that we haven't added anything financially, we double disappoint those people. I'd like us to avoid that with each other. Is Mrs Belhaj prepared to work with DENK in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u16	I certainly am, and I also hope with several political parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u17	What is striking is that there is so little left of the number of cases of discrimination against which there is an objection. I thought Mr Van Baarle also said that little is rightly seen as discrimination. Could that happen because people think they are or are discriminated against, but they are not? Then it is up to other things and it is not necessarily because they have a certain appearance or a certain origin, although they have thought so. You can't blame those people for thinking that, but it doesn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u18	I want to understand what Mr Eerdmans is saying. Does he refer to those 2% of the people who end up pressing charges?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u19	So I'm saying there's really not much left of the reports. Very often there is little left of a declaration of discrimination, because it cannot be proved or because there are other reasons. There is a reason for this. I think that may be that people think very much that they have been discriminated against, but that they have not been discriminated against at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u20	This is a beautiful moment in the sense of: it becomes visible how you look politically. 76 more returns have been made. If there is little left of the declarations, Mr Eerdmans says: it is likely that people thought it was discrimination, but that it was not. On the basis of all the figures available, I think that sometimes it can be that it is very difficult to show that it is racism or discrimination. It may also be that one didn't want to go to the police or wasn't well supported. That's why we had these discussions about the detectives. It must be taken seriously when someone reports and says: this is racism and discrimination. That's why I asked the Minister of JenV: is there any improvement? Suppose people don't get it and say, well, you've been called something nasty once, but, ma'am, there are a lot of people in society who are sometimes called something nasty. Then such a declaration will not be dealt with again very quickly. So I think your point of view is to say something about how you look politically. And since it is not known, I can actually say nothing else about it, except that I know that a lot of people are discriminated against and we have thought for too long that that is not something you should report seriously. You're gonna have to report that seriously. And you have to take that seriously. If you don't take that structuralally seriously, I'm gonna round off, chairman of the committee, you're gonna have a dislocated society in which people drop out because they feel that the government isn't there for them, while another group of people thinks: we're gonna get away with it that every day we can just shout out what we want to everyone because they look different, et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you. I'd like to speak through the chairman. That is what I am saying to Mr Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u22	That's exactly how you can look at it. Perhaps you are partly right, but I am also partly right: people feel very, very discriminated against, and there is absolutely no basis for that. That can be very small, but it can also be very large. So I'm afraid that's clouding the discussion. People think very quickly: I'm not rejected here because I don't have the quality or anything like that, but because I have this skin color. Why don't you go and prove it? Of course, that's very difficult. That nuance is missing from the discussion. I'm going to go into it a little further in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mrs. Belhaj, briefly, because I haven't heard a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u24	No, but I think Mr Eerdmans wants to know how I feel about that. What's he basing that feeling on? I hear these arguments more often and I think: did I miss something? It's so easy to say it looked like racism, but it wasn't. The danger is that you send the signal to people: stop whining, because it's just in your own head and you've been turned down on something else. I know Mr Eerdmans as someone who does not like discrimination and racism, and he thinks that people should report it and that it should be addressed. The suggestion that it's all gonna be okay, you have to be able to harden it, and if it's not hard to make, stop it, really. Because it only creates disruption in society; a lot of people then face each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you. I call Mr Klaver van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is the terrible events in Giethoorn. A single mother of Turkish origin and her 15-year-old son were the victims of intimidation and racist violence of a group of young people from that homeland for more than a year. The sad outcome of this was that the family had to move. That's the world upside down, a reward for bad behavior. We shouldn't think of this as a stand-alone, loose incident, a group of kids kicking shit. It is part of something bigger and wider, something that has been dormant for years, but is increasingly emerging. On Dutch television there is a television channel where there is a public talk of a conversion theory. Nine colleagues have rightly asked questions about this, because this cannot be done. But the fact that this is happening in the case of broadcasting is not really the worst; it is just part of what is happening in this Chamber. Parties here speak out openly for this conspiracy theory, because that's it. When you talk about overcrowding, it's not about worrying about migration, about the pace with which it takes place or who comes; that can be a legitimate position. It is a conspiracy theory that states that the elite consciously brings people to this country to provide homeopathic dilution among the people who originally live here. We've heard that line before. For years this poison has been sprayed into our society, not only in the Netherlands, but throughout the world, and not without consequences. In the Netherlands, this is manifested by the fact that several mosques received threatening letters, by the fact that there is arson or by the fact that pig heads are laid at a mosque. But abroad, and not so far from here, these kinds of thoughts have also led to terrible attacks. The Norwegian terrorist Anders Breivik, 2011: he said that Europe committed cultural suicide and he himself committed a terrible attack. Christchurch, 2019: 51 random mosque visitors were shot. Last Saturday it was an 18-year-old white man who drove hours to start a massacre in a supermarket in Buffalo, United States. Mr. Chairman. The spread of these conspiracy theories, whether public service broadcasting or here in Parliament, is dangerous. That must be stopped. We know from various DTN's, Threat Images Terrorism Netherlands, that extreme right is getting bigger and more dangerous. On a number of specific issues, I would like a more specific answer from the Minister of Justice. Do we have a good idea of the risk posed by the extreme right? How big is the group that is attracted to this ideology? And above all: do we have a picture of how many people are willing to pick up the weapons to take the lives of entire populations? Do we have a picture of how many of these young people, especially men, are willing to travel or perhaps already do so to follow militia training, not so far from here, in Hungary or Poland? What parallels can we draw with the approach of foreign terrorist fighters, which we have had before? Are we working together with other countries, such as the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium and the US, which have similar problems? What have we learned from the previous interventions, focused on religious extremism? To what extent are these also applicable to this group? I'll come to a conclusion. This week former MP Mohamed Rabbae van GroenLinks died. A champion of equal opportunities. An activist who resisted racism. We'll miss his fight, but to his next of kin, I'd like to say from this place that we'll all continue his fight until there's justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you. I call Mrs Koekkoek van Volt.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We would actually have this debate together last week, but I am glad that the debate has been moved to today, because all the developments of the last week have made it even clearer why this debate on discrimination and racism should be conducted. Mr Klaver mentioned it very well, with the most extreme example being Buffalo. It's not gonna get much worse than that. A clear example of conscious racism and discrimination, fueled by extreme right-wing theories. Whether it is Muslim hatred, anti-Semitism, lhbti hatred, sexism or anti-Black racism, we are seeing an increase in the number of incidents and thus a sign of the fertility of the breeding ground that creates far-right. That is why I have a number of questions to the ministers. Can they indicate what is being done to identify individual risk cases and reduce the risk of radicalisation? What is being done to reduce the breeding ground for legal radicalisation? How is NCTV involved? In short, do we have enough? Any form of racism or discrimination, directly or indirectly, consciously or unconsciously, with personal or broad social consequences requires a specific and effective approach. That is precisely why I ask the Minister how we can arrive at an effective approach if the cabinet cannot give a shared definition of racism and institutional racism. This is demonstrated by the answers to Parliamentary questions on the provision of fraud alerts to the Secretary of State for Finance, who have been asked earlier. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Clear definitions of discrimination, racism and institutional racism are so important because they form the basis of our policy. If you don't have those definitions clearly, what measure do you take if you don't know what you're testing? Then how do you carry out a constitutional test in advance when making legislation and policies? It is simply not clear how you interpret fundamental rights. If you build systems based on misconceptions, contaminated and biased data and prejudices, you're sure the execution will eventually discriminate. We've seen that at the IRS and the IND. Now it appears that the algorithms of the police and JenV also do not meet the basic requirements set by the General Court. I would therefore like to ask the Ministers to make a commitment that they will, for the future, arrange for the conduct and use of algorithms and IT systems to be continuously monitored, starting from the development and implementation phase of new policies. There are a number of points that Volt believes are the basis for combating systemic risks of discrimination. I would very much like to hear what the ministers think about that. Work to eliminate incorrect assumptions and prejudices within the departments. Apply a high standard in compliance with privacy law and implement the Handleiding Constitutional Review of BZK or a similar handout in all departments. Set the same high standards when outsourcing tasks, so tasks that are normally performed by the government, but are now carried out by suppliers. Also dare to stop the use of algorithms and IT systems if it turns out that they discriminate. I would very much like to hear ministers' views on this, on how they are working on this and on what timeframe. What's possible in this? Finally, Mr President. Can the Minister tell us about the roll-out of the implementation of the COC Rainbow Agreement? The Netherlands is falling further behind the rest of the European leading group in the field of concrete Ihbti policy. We are also stagnant as a country in terms of acceptance. It is a good thing that the cabinet wants to work on the implementation of the agreement, but we would also like to hear what is being started first and at what time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u29	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Mutluer of the PvdA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has been said before, but the reason for this debate is the terrible example of discrimination in Giethoorn. A few years ago, a woman of Turkish origin and her son were bullied for so long that they felt compelled to move. We've talked about that case before, and I'm not going to have that discussion again. We have also drawn conclusions from this case, namely that the authorities that should have done something did not do this or did it too late. Hopefully, the lessons that can be learned from this matter will be implemented in practice. The motion I tabled together with colleagues Van Baarle and Belhaj to examine how bodies can improve the approach to discrimination fits in with this. Unfortunately, however, this example of Giethoorn is not on its own and we are still getting too many reports of discrimination from all over the country and from all over the world. I also often get signals of concrete cases of discrimination, most recently from two students who were constantly confronted with discriminatory texts by a teacher of their HBO training. A teacher who had to train as an entrepreneur in the care sector made structural comments towards them to encourage them in their own words. He called them "mocromafia." Or early, you guys gonna put money in the company? Or: then you put your dead cousin or uncle from Turkey on the payroll. These are examples that, for all intents and purposes, take place at a college by a teacher. It scared the hell out of me. This school has taken action on this because it also believes that this is unacceptable. That's great! But unfortunately, that did not reassure me at all, because my contact with these two guys showed that because of the fuss, if I may call it so, she had even suffered study delay and thus suffered damage. And before that, they couldn't knock on their door at their school. And they had never heard of an ADV, which shows that an anti-discrimination provision is still not sufficiently well-known. I cite this strong example to point out that appropriate action is urgently needed afterwards, but also to point out that an ADV should be well known and should be able to be more than a hotline. ADV should also be able to handle complaints. I am thinking of important tasks which they do not yet have, but which they might have. I am thinking of prevention through, for example, information, lessons in schools, information to sports clubs or other associations and public campaigns. Do the ADVs have the opportunity to do so? In the legal sense, there are probably no obstacles, but the law only requires them to deal with complaints. But can municipalities themselves extend the tasks of the ADVs? I myself believe that this extension of tasks is necessary. How does the Minister feel about that? And if the tasks were to be extended, would the ADVs have the necessary financial resources to do so? I know that local authorities do not always clear the target amounts for the tasks of the ADVs. It is not an earmarked money which comes from the Community fund through a specific payment. How does the Minister see this? Can it appeal to municipalities and municipalities to fund their ADVs well, also in the light that the tasks of the ADVs might need to be extended? If we really want to give priority to combating discrimination, then we must also show courage and dare to set limits. Only that leads in my opinion to the change we would like to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u31	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Esch of the Animal Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The fight against discrimination and racism is one of the greatest challenges of our time. You can see that tonight, because we are here together on the occasion of that family in Giethoorn that has been plagued for years with racist and discriminatory treatment. Several speakers have already said it. What has happened to this family is unacceptable and, unfortunately, no exception or incident. It is part of a structural problem, the approach of which requires central government control. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we see the opposite happening. Public institutions that should be there for people are often guilty of discrimination and racism. Every time we think it can't get any worse, another scandal comes to light, in which the Tax Administration plays a role more often than not. The February PwC report showed for the umpteenth time that racist selection grounds have been used in the fight against fraud. And yet discrimination and racism are still not part of programmes to finally change the culture of that tax administration. My question is, and it has been asked more often: how can this be? How can it be, I ask the Minister, that this has still not changed? Mr. Chairman. After all these scandals and after all this human suffering, the cabinet still does not dare to acknowledge that there is institutional racism within the government. It says that it does not even have a precise definition of what racism really is. That really freaked me out. I was shocked by the answer given to the parliamentary questions. I was shocked by the fact that it literally states that everyone should be done justice, despite the fact that we are standing here with each other to do justice to the people who have been harmed. That we still do not know how to define that concept is a truly shocking outcome. It's shocking that we haven't moved on. What example does this cabinet intend to give to society if this is the answer? Then there's the letter that came today, and it's got the same thing in it. It says again that everyone must be done justice, that we should still start the necessary dialogue, despite the fact that we should have entered into this dialogue a long time ago. If it says here that we still have to start that dialogue, I wonder what kind of example this cabinet itself gives. What is needed now to finally start with the recognition by the government that she too is guilty of racism? Mr. Chairman. My party still does not see any decisive and concrete action to counter that. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet is pushing this far too far. A national coordinator is there, a state committee is there, but both work without legal powers to actually enforce that change. My party was in favour of the appointment of the national coordinator and also of the state committee, but we do not want it to stop. These instruments are not close to what we should all actually do. That is why I am asking for this question, and I have often asked how we can now ensure that this national coordinator and this state committee have the powers to actually bring about change. What concrete action is going to be taken to really act immediately? Finally, Mr President, I would like to speak again, in all honesty, about our adopted motion on modern slavery. This Minister dismisses this motion with a reference to dealing with trafficking in human beings and leaves it to the Foreign Trade Ministry for the rest, while modern slavery is much more than just trafficking in human beings. This concerns funding from the Dutch government and activities of Dutch companies abroad, mainly those of colour are affected. The motion therefore called for an active fight against modern slavery. She asked to make this fight a priority of Dutch policy against discrimination and racism, on which, for example, this national coordinator also draws up a national programme. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My final question is why the Minister does not, for example, give the national coordinator the approach to modern slavery as a spearhead, while that motion is still there. Is she willing to do that after all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u33	Thank you. I call Mrs Van der Woude of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is one of the most tolerant countries in the world, but that does not mean that we have just heard in detail that there is no discrimination or racism here, quite the contrary. Still, two men or two women can't go hand in hand all over the street, or maybe even less, and many women in their neighbourhood in the evening do not dare to go down the street at all, or because of their last name they don't get to work. Discrimination, racism and anti-Semitism are still part of our free society. That's unacceptable. That is why we must continue to fight it and bet on offering opportunities. Many examples have already been mentioned by the speakers before me. We also recently had a debate on racism and discrimination two months ago. That's when I started talking about safety for different groups. Since then, there have been dates that require special attention in our view, such as intimidation and violence against women. Freedom of security is under pressure, whether it's on the street, in the pub, at work or while going out. I've named it before, but according to the latest CBS figures, street harassment affects two out of three young women. The largest number of cases of discrimination in public space affects women. That's a little worse than I thought. Almost all girls who go out indicate that they can be drugged, according to a questionnaire submitted by NOS to almost 5,000 young people. More than three quarters never leave her drink alone. A large majority do not take drinks from strangers while going out and hold her hand above the glass. That's half, I read in the media, but in my environment, I hear, it's 100% of the girls that do that. In the meantime, they are also concerned about the latest craze, namely injection needles. You go out and you put on jeans instead of a skirt, so you can't get stuck in your leg. Mr. Chairman. I find it totally insane that a basic human right to walk outside as undisturbed and to go out safely is so seriously violated for this group too. A law against this is important and necessary, but we also need to do more in front of it. How do guys get the idea that this is normal behavior? Where does it come from and how do we eradicate it? I organise a round table on that myself, but the initiative cannot really be with me alone. Perhaps both ministers would like to respond to this point, but I would ask the Minister for the Interior in particular. What does the Minister intend to do to ensure that we stop normalizing this behavior? 'Cause that's what I see happening. Mr. Chairman. I am also concerned about the freedom and security of lhbti people in the Netherlands. A recent SCP report contains several conclusions on the acceptance of lhbti's: that on the one hand we are doing quite well and that we belong to the most tolerant countries of Europe, and that the lhb acceptance goes a lot easier than the other letters, tia+. I'm concerned that the acceptance seems to stagnate. They've also pointed out where that's in different groups. Can the Minister reflect on this or can the national coordinator do so? Is acceptance a matter of time? The report also states how much progress has been made over the years. We have to acknowledge that, too. Or should we do more? Is this also addressed in the approach, so that we get to work more focused and see where we really need to take steps? That, I think, is also in line with Mrs Koekkoek's questions. So far. Just in time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u35	Thank you. There's an interruption for you from Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u36	We have just heard other speakers say that the government cannot manage to define what discrimination or racism is. I would like to ask Mrs Van der Woude: what is the definition according to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u37	There are, of course, definitions in the Van Dale. What strikes me about the question is that we actually ask the cabinet what it is. This isn't a law of nature. We need to get together and figure out what it is. Are we using the Van Dale definition? Is that him? Or are we gonna wait for the cabinet to come up with a definition? 'Cause it matters a lot. We are against all forms of racism, but what do we mean by 'institutional racism'? And what do we want to achieve by calling it that? You ask: what is racism? Is that that people with different skin colors are less and that they are treated differently categorically? We're against that, and I think everyone in this room. I think it's also good to see what binds us in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u38	I think it is very good that the VVD is moving forward with a definition than this cabinet, because I have to say that it made me really sad. I was saddened by the note we received today and by the answers given to the parliamentary questions, but also by the stuttering Secretary of State, who, following the recognition of the Fraud Signaling provision and the specific search for people with a particular religion, said: "Yes, it is appalling. It's not allowed. Apologies. No, no, it's not racism." If we can't even get a definition from the government, we can't agree on what definition it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u39	Maybe we can do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u40	Well, maybe we can try. Take the Fraud Signaling Provision. For example, people were really targeted on a gift to the mosque or targeted on the lowest incomes. According to the VVD, could that also be discrimination? According to the VVD, could it be discrimination if you take a group of people on the basis of income or based on the neighbourhood where they live, for example, think of a neighborhood with a lot of rental houses and specifically target them? Is that also a form of discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u41	I think it's risky to start selecting on one aspect anyway. I believe it has been promised that this will be looked at by the national coordinator. I have already heard him define it in the media. We have, of course, also instructed the State Commission to see how it can be profiled in such a way that we do not have 3,000 officials at work, but people are not disadvantaged. After all, we do not want discrimination. We don't want racism.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u42	This is your third question from the four. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u43	Finally, I would like to ask Mrs Van der Woude about the profiling. Yesterday, another report on government profiling appeared. Nine algorithms have been investigated. Six of them don't pass the test. Human rights have not even been taken into account. If it is so wrong that what is being ticked and people are getting a stamp can have a huge devastating effect without actually looking at the behavior. We have seen it with the Tax Administration and the IND. And if it is so widespread wrong with the government, shouldn't we say: we are going to stop doing this temporarily; we are not going to use it again until we know for sure that the test of human rights is passed and the bias that is in it is resolved? Doesn't the VVD think that's the purest thing to do right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u44	I can't see what the practical consequences would be if we stopped algorithms in all public services. So I really don't have the guts to answer that. I agree with you that it is widely distributed and that we have not seen for a long time that these algorithms can have enormous negative effects. In fact, I believe that there are companies, multinationals that have noticed this before and have improved it in themselves. I also know examples of this from abroad. There's always a feedback loop in algorithms. They teach themselves: "When I look at this, I catch something. Hey, I caught some there, so I'm going here next time too." If you keep looking to the left, you only see people on the left doing something. The same applies to the right. This can happen in your head, by the way. Then it's called "cognitive dissonance." That's just as bad. If we set up the algorithms better, and if we look closely at what the Court of Auditors has found, algorithms might be even more objective than humans. That's where we need to go. We're gonna find out, including through the state committee. It will make concrete recommendations. But that does not mean that we in the Chamber should not discuss this and continue to question each other about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the Socialist Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u46	Unauthorized discrimination is prohibited. This is stated in Article 1 of our Constitution. You can say that a lot in a letter. You can say that in a very good tone in a debate, what the Minister of the Interior did in the committee debate we had. I also told the Minister that it was the right tone. She's not in the negative phase. But what a pity it is that we are getting the letter today that no definition of discrimination and racism can be given. I don't understand. I wonder, how? We have had a lot of debates here over the past year on all kinds of discrimination and racism. I think it is good for everyone to know that racism is discrimination, but that discrimination is not always based on background and colour. And if we want to eliminate everything, then we have to acknowledge together that training for diversity is doing just fine! However, it is not a solution to the deep, deep system within the government that makes unauthorized distinctions. A state committee should never be a flight ahead, after which we can wait until 1 May 2026 before we do something. We have seen at the Tax Office with the Fraud Signaling Provision and with the targeting within Fees the lowest incomes, people with a migration background, people who had a different education or another family composition how those ticks were not a trigger for real research, but a trigger for closing the door to government service and, worse still, throwing it into financial disorder, putting children out of the house, putting the whole ram. Two weeks ago: the IND selects on the non-Western background of drivers. He doesn't do that anymore, because Mr Ceder and I have asked: 'Hey, what about others?' The Ministry of the Interior once checked and then the IND said: we have something like that. How did that happen, selecting non-Western drivers? In non-Western countries, the thesis was, they're not used to complying with the laws, so you have more risk of fraud there. Our government didn't shut down until last year. Internal legal advice: this is not allowed, this leads to ethnic profiling. They had the definition, but the IND just keeps going. Yesterday the report on algorithms: nine examined, six can't get through. But if I move here, of "let's stop algorithms if we can't put our hands in the fire" then we can't. Then the government won't be able to function. If the government operates discriminatoryly, we should all stand here with shame on our jaws and not do so. To my surprise, this House of Representatives has even approved an approach to profiling when it comes to address quality. Checking addresses can also be done in a different way than using that data-driven religion with which you get fraudsters up. We've seen that doesn't work that way. We need to get rid of that. A National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism, fine that there is. Let him do good and important, but what work can he do without a definition? What work can we do in our control function without the ability of the Tax Administration to recognise: yes, there has been discrimination and racism? Because that's what it's been, not an individual official. No, there were manuals: that's how you have to select, that's how you do it. Then it becomes something of the institute and then comes the term 'institutional racism'. Are all the tax officials racists? No, you don't, because there are always people who oppose it. There are always internal legal advices. It's just not being listened to. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. I see the time. There has been a clear moment in data-driven religion when it has become widespread throughout the government, and that has been with the Ministerial Commission Approach Fraud. During Rutte II, under the leadership of the Prime Minister and under the direction of then the Minister for Security and Justice, Mr Opstelten drew up a plan to link, share all data and thus raise the network and get the fraudsters upstairs. I have tabled a motion on this: what laws are there, what links have been agreed and what policy has emerged from it? I tabled that motion five weeks ago, of which the Secretary of State for the Interior said at the time: I need to agree in the cabinet if I can approve it. That's information request, in a motion. I would like to know this evening from the Minister of the Interior whether she can simply give this motion judgment Chamber, so that we can continue to unravel what tremendous data-driven instruments are being used, beyond our eyes, which can have a devastating effect on people's lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u47	Thank you. I call Mr Eerdmans of JA21.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u48	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is not a racist country; let me say in advance. Does this mean that there are no racists in the Netherlands? No, I'm afraid not. Of course not. Does this mean that all racists are automatically native Dutch? That's not true either. Unfortunately, racism occurs within every people. And racism is always wrong. Luckily, discrimination is prohibited by law. However, the debate on this issue has been blown up for years. I have just discussed this with Mrs Belhaj. Discrimination means, in fact, that equal cases are treated unequally. But there are often no equal cases. Let me give you a few examples. Let's start with the police. The police are a favourite target in the racism debate. The picture shows that, for example, the police have always targeted immigrants with consequences in the case of preventive search. But on the waves of these false sentiments, agents are cut off in their daily work, and sometimes they are downright humiliated. They're gonna suffer. Think of the Amsterdam mayor Halsema. She had to send observers to police officers, to her agents, to help them search preventively. What's the real deal? Take a look at the numbers. The Annual Report Integration of the CBS showed that Moroccan boys are convicted five times as often as native Dutch boys. Let me finish, Mr President, before there is any interruption, because then you will understand the context and that is important. Weapon possession is a major problem and turns out to be a major problem among Antillean young people. Oh, yeah. So it makes sense that they are more likely to end up in situations where preventive searches are being carried out. And then it is also logical that they can more often give rise to a patron control. This is not because of their race or appearance, but because of the fact that they live in an area where, for example, there is a lot of violence with knives or where there are many drug deals. Then the chance is simply greater that they will be apprehended. In the same way, the chances of an 80-pluser being held there are very low. It is also very logical that there are many more boys than girls being arrested at patron controls. Does that discriminate against the boys? No, I don't think so. Now I need an interruption, Mr. President, if I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u49	I'll see if anyone's interested. Yes, Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u50	Mr President, this sounded so direct that I am almost so obstinate to think: you are not getting that interruption at all. Mr Eerdmans says a lot of things that I would almost put under the heading of 'total nonsense', but let me take my curious attitude. When people complain about the fact that many Dutch people are detained with a Moroccan background, Mr.Eerdmans thinks they are negative to the police. That's not true at all. I and others have indicated here that only 4% of the agents know what professional control is. This is a figure from 2020. So that means 96% of the cops don't know that. So you're saying that it's really just a little bullshit what they're saying about it. So my question to you is: what are you basing yourself on? The facts simply say something quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u51	I'd like to speak through the chairman, Mrs. Belhaj. The same goes for Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u52	I think this falls in the vein of the action in Amsterdam to work with observers. You don't trust the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u53	I can't find anything, Mr. Eerdmans. I am going to be as strict on this, because I know that it is certainly very quickly on these kinds of subjects...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u54	We don't want to stigmatize you, Mr. President, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u55	No, no, but try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u56	Oh, I see what you're saying. So Mrs Belhaj falls into exactly the same trap, saying that the police cannot be trusted and the police do not understand what she is doing. I trust the police. There will also be exceptions where the police are blaming themselves and where cops are spoiling themselves and perhaps even racist. For example, the mayor in our Rotterdam said the same thing. He said, of course, if there are racists in society, they can also occur in the police. But assuming that the police are hunting Moroccans because they are Moroccans, as is sometimes said, is simply factually incorrect and stigmatizing for the police. That's wrong; we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u57	What I think is wrong is that Mr Eerdmans brings forward all the things that I have not said at all. I'm just looking at it really dry. If you know that the percentage of cops who know how to deal with that is very low, then it's very strange that I get the reaction that I find the police racists. That's really weird. Please, let's not do that. My question was very simple: what is Mr Eerdmans basing himself on? Why does he choose to come up with all the arguments in this debate to put it into perspective? There are a lot of things in life that you have to put into perspective, I say through the chairman, but sometimes you also have to say: this is wrong. Then you don't have to bring in all these things to undermine it. That's what it sounded like. Perhaps Mr Eerdmans can correct himself or perhaps that will be in the second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u58	I will continue, Mr President, because time is running out for that too. Look at the violence against gays. A study by the municipality of Amsterdam shows that homosexuals who had to deal with violence indicated that in many cases the perpetrators were light-skinned and have a non-Dutch background. That report was then kept under the hat of the GroenLinkswethouder for six months. That's not what this is about. It's always snowed under in a debate. It has just been said: almost all women suffer from street harassment. When I had it examined from where it came from, it turned out that immigrant young people were mostly called. I just didn't want it to be said out loud. Education is also an example. It is often stressed that immigrant children receive too low school advice because of their background and that of their parents. But what remains of the CPB's investigation? They're getting higher advice, higher than lower. So why is ethnicity dragged back into it? That is my central message: ethnicity is very often wrongly dragged into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u59	I have a question on this point. Mr Eerdmans suggests that there is too little talk of homosexuals being discriminated against or women being called names. That's bullshit. This House of Representatives is on the right. The narrative is on the right. If you take it up for the other side, you're instantly someone who totally denies it. There are plenty of people who feel free all day to emphasize that. I don't know if Mr. Eerdmans ever looks on Twitter, but every time it says "#Moroccans." As naive as it may be, every time I think, "Would it be good news for once?" No, it's all crap. It's just about Dutch people who were born here, I say through you, Mr President. Mr Eerdmans suggests that we do not discuss these things here. We've been talking about these things for ten years! Will we talk about the other side, about other victims and the downside of talking about only that side, which you claim, through the President, that we are talking about too little in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u60	I'm zooming in on a number of things. I think the focus is wrong. Twitter sucks. We all know that. It is also not representative of the Netherlands. Let's just establish that with each other. There's no need to be afraid of that. We all do. So that is a wrong example on your part, I think. I do point my arrows at other things than you. I felt it snowed under. But we're looking at the problem in a different way, as with your interruption. Mr. Chairman. Do you know where I'm going with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u61	I don't know where...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u62	The rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u63	I'd like you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u64	I think it should be about equal opportunities. Does everyone get equal opportunities in the Netherlands? I don't think that's true right now. If your bed is in Bloemendaal, you have more chances than if your bed is in Rotterdam-West. But that is quite different from the question of whether you are discriminated against more often if you have a particular color or background. I think it has very little to do with appearance and race. I'm gonna leave out the real racists. I agree that we need to work on inequality of opportunity. You can increase the chances that everyone gets equal opportunities, but you can't guarantee the outcomes. I think that's something you should be careful about, because that's just wrong. So let this debate be about that. Let this debate be about the facts and not about ideas based on a debatable model of earning, such as that of Mr Van Baarle, who is going to stand here with a cart to abuse other parties for one's own message. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish with that. My time is over, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u65	That was your speech. There is an interruption for you from Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u66	Mr Eerdmans again tried to establish many xenophobic attic theory links between origin and crime and between origin and abuse. I would like to say to Mr Eerdmans: there is a reason why we do not. You're not born a criminal, you're not born a mistreater. Origin doesn't determine whether you exhibit that kind of behavior. Your culture doesn't determine whether you're interested in being a criminal. There are other factors for that. That's scientific bullshit. Does Mr Eerdmans understand that making that kind of connection is actually inherently racist and that it makes sense that the origin of a person becomes a criminal? Second. If Mr Eerdmans does not agree, he actually says: yes, I do believe in that. I do believe that someone's origin dictates that someone can be more affectionate with being a criminal. Then we've got something serious going on. Then I guess we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u67	No, you listen very badly, because my math is...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u68	No. Mr. Van Baarle doesn't listen very well. I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u69	Mr Van Baarle is so miscalculating, but you are probably counting at least, at least in time. If you live in a neighborhood where a lot of people have knives, there's a pretty good chance you're being held in a preventative search. 'Cause that's where it takes place. Yeah, they're kept there on the basis of statistics. So that's a very logical conclusion. That has nothing to do with it, I repeat: nothing to do with origin or appearance. I've set the example of young people and girls. You can bring in all kinds of Van Baarle-like things with sidecars: why aren't the girls being prosecuted, where are the girls, why aren't they being checked at patser checks? No, it doesn't happen very much. Old people over 80 years old, older people are indeed very little arrested. Why is that? Is it stigmatizing that these people never... do we stigmatize the young men in the Netherlands? No. So everything attracts you to appearances and races, because it is your earning model. Sorry, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u70	No, I've got a whole different earning model.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u71	Van Baarles earning model, the earning model of DENK, is simply: race, appearance, we are discriminated against on that. And it's never about other things, not gays, not old people or women. Because that is not their earning model, or Mr Van Baarle's earning model. I object to that. You're using me, you're using me, and probably other parties who aren't even here because they just don't feel like that rhetoric of yours, for your own DENK model to push society against each other, to turn it against each other with your inflammatory tactics, with carts and all. I have no message about that at all. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u72	Yes, Mr. Eerdmans, I'll keep trying anyway. If I correct you, one sentence will go well, but then you'll go again. You shouldn't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u73	I'm not doing it anymore. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u74	We're gonna try. If you continue to do so, I should simply take the floor, because that is simply not good for the tone of the debate. And that's what I'm here for. That's my earning model. Unremunerated and well. Mr. Van Baarle, this will be your last question. Deal with it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u75	That's right, Mr. Chairman. What Mr Eerdmans is doing is to abuse Moroccan Dutch people, Dutch people with a different origin, for his own political point, to spit his xenophobic gall, to spit his anti-migration message. He knows damn well that your lineage doesn't determine whether you're gonna be a criminal. He knows damn well that Moroccan Dutch are not more likely to become criminal just because they are a Moroccan Dutchman. But he's still coming up with those statistics. Yet he says there would be a connection. Yes, chairman, correlation and no causality. You can't become a criminal just because you have a certain origin. So don't wake up that impression either. That's fake, and that's racist.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u76	Then the CBS is racist, then the CPB is racist and then the cabinet is racist, because these are statistics. No one's making that connection here: since you're Moroccan, you're a criminal. But the fact is that the crime among Moroccan Dutch is really a lot higher than among other groups. That's a fact. I then explain the connection to the possibility that you will indeed be removed from a preventive search operation. I was also taken out once, you know, at a local check-up in Rotterdam. You know that, too. I was surprised, too, but that's what happens. That's what happens at random. This is done on the basis of all kinds of profiles and risks. You have to tell the police it's a very difficult task, but she does. In short, that has nothing to do with racism or discrimination, but it has nothing to do with police work.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u78	Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u79	I listened very carefully to Mr Eerdmans. Actually, I'm hearing two things that I think are positive. First of all. Unlike our Prime Minister, Mr Eerdmans says: you really need to fight against inequality of opportunity, because if you don't, you'll still see a lot of abuses; you really need to support young people in their education and help them in their education and families. That's where you'll find me next to you. The same goes for your comment, Mr President, and I would like to turn to my question about the fact that discrimination is commonplace. Would you like to reflect on the example I mentioned in my contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u80	No, no, Mrs. Mutluer, I'm not gonna do that. I'm not gonna reflect. Maybe Mr. Eerdmans did, but I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u81	Oh, no, not you. Apologies! Through you, Mr. Chairman. Could we ask Mr. Eerdmans to reflect on the example I mentioned in my contribution? What's that? Is that really for stimulation, or can we put it under discrimination, as the university of applied sciences has done in this case? Do you want to reflect on the examples that we know from the neighbourhoods, on the example that companies say to temporary employment agencies: we do not want boys with Turkish or Moroccan origins? Young people have to apply 15 or 20 times before they find an internship. Do you want to reflect on this, so that we can reach an agreement with each other through you, President-in-Office of the Council, on the fact that discrimination is taking place, that there are opportunities and that we really must seize them at the heart of the matter? 'Cause maybe we're not that far apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u82	The latter could well be true in this context. Look, I think everyone in the Netherlands should have equal opportunities. The fact that people don't get the same opportunities because of who they are or because of where their crib is, I think it's wrong. That is something other than predicting the same outcome; that is what I have been talking about. But you can work on that. That is precisely the definition of 'discrimination'. Why would one get less chances than the other? That's what I think. Moreover, I do not think that inequality of opportunity leads to discrimination. I had the impression you almost said that in your question. I don't think so, but it's something you have to work on. The second: yes, that will occur. It's abject when people say that the gentleman has a Surinamese surname; he doesn't get in with me. I have the impression that this is very rare. I can hardly imagine that. Those people will be there, but I think a lot of people don't think that's decisive at all. Not at all. I hope not, but again, it will happen. I do not therefore believe that it is structurally embedded in organizations in the Netherlands, in the vein of 'we should not have Surinamese people here' or 'we do not want Moroccan people here'. I can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mrs Leijten, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u84	I am listening to Mr Eerdmans and I really wonder if he wants to contribute to a solution to unauthorized discrimination, which is very widespread in our society. And he talks about statistics, and, you see, it's justified. But the IRS also relied on statistics. And he didn't do it right. We have already said that, and a cabinet has fallen on it. He made a blacklist out of that. That puts people out of business. And if you know how devastating that principle can be, how it confirms prejudice, how you can get a bias, then you have to say: we don't want discrimination, I believe, if Mr Eerdmans says that, and I don't want racism? But if with your selection of neighborhoods you're dealing with, of incomes you're dealing with, of people you're dealing with, of people with a color that you're dealing with, some kind of reverse seven-finches, seven-crosses, then the outcome of that is very destructive, isn't it? Wouldn't it be a good thing that JA21 is on the line that you really don't want that outcome as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u85	I do not think that the Tax Administration is doing it wrong to create risk profiles of age, nationality, dual nationality, special gifts. That's done. What I do think is wrong is that people go on and put people on a list that are innocent and leave those people on it. I think that's the biggest problem with the whole affair. So, again, I don't think that's wrong at all. Now you say very quickly: "people with a color"...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u86	No, I'm not saying anything. It's Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u87	Or Mrs. Leijten said that: "color." I think it was about age, nationality, the donations to mosques and to churches; more those factors in risk profiling. I've read that in all the reports. So that's what the IRS is looking for, that's risk profiling, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u88	Thank you. I am going to give the floor to Mr Ephraim of the Van Haga Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Racism and discrimination are against the law, indecent and reprehensible. And also criminal offences, so as a victim, you report them, and the police have to follow up on them. There are people who, based on their last names, miss an internship or job. There are neighborhoods in Amsterdam where Jews no longer dare to wear their yarmulke, gays cannot walk hand in hand undisturbed, and young women with short skirts are chased and shouted at. It's all very bad. However, there is also a trend of policor, woke, diversity quotas, identity politicians, sometimes using discrimination as a criminal instrument. And that too is very bad. The ultimate sanction is the so-called "canceling." That, too, is discrimination, which is a good thing. BVNL sees people as individuals, with individual characteristics, qualities and responsibilities; not as part of a box, a predestined group based on gender, orientation, origin or whatever. Racism and discrimination are toxic. However, the well-meaning administrative and administrative structure for discrimination, as stated in the letter... In any case, we are afraid that this will lead to more consultation, more reporting, more annual reports, more working groups, more output. And there is, as the General Court says, a paper and real reality. In its implementation, the government has not come forward very well lately, so putting even more implementation problems on its plate does not seem to me to be the right way forward. How does the Minister intend to organise the implementation to avoid disappointments in the approach? Mr Klaver also mentioned the terrible attacks in Norway and Buffalo. It was not completely complete, because also: attacks in Barcelona; in Nice with the truck; Paris, the Bataclan; Brussels, Zaventem; the tram in Utrecht; London; the attacks on HaCarmel; the murder of Theo van Gogh. And, of course, we all don't want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u90	I would like to conclude by thanking Mrs Van Dijk of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate has been requested, among other things, as a result of a report which showed that a Turkish family in Giethoorn has been discriminated against and felt unsafe in its own home by racist harassment, intimidation and destruction. Unfortunately, that example is not on its own. A round of Google alone produces a lot of intense stories. Those are stories about people and complete families who are excluded in their own community. They don't know what to do anymore and eventually choose to leave their homes. That is not the society we stand for. We attach to language, culture, religion, traditions and folklore. They form identity and give meaning and color to our everyday lives. In the diverse and multicolored society that Holland is, it demands respect in dealing with each other and the responsibility to protect and preserve the freedom of others. The question I asked myself in preparing this debate is: do we take sufficient responsibility to protect and preserve this freedom of others? For this debate, I should also like to refer back to a letter from the Minister from February last, in which she states that all forms of discrimination and racism are totally unacceptable in our society. I fully share this basic attitude. The applicant for this debate, like the Minister, advocates a strengthened chain-wide approach to discrimination and racism in order to achieve this in the end. That's where Chamber and Cabinet find each other. However, I have a number of questions for the Minister. Ketenbreed starts as far as the CDA is concerned close to people in their own municipality. The Minister talks about an anti-discrimination facility in each municipality. Having one is a good start. But there are legitimate concerns about how this works. The Minister himself indicates what can be improved and that research is being carried out. The PvdA has already hinted at prevention and information and the CDA has also drawn attention to this in the past. But what is the deadline for these investigations to be completed? When will improvements actually be implemented? Following these investigations will best practices also come out? Because we often talk about what's not going well. That is what we are right to get excited about. But let's also share the beautiful success stories, the sources of inspiration that give energy and show what kind of society we can be together. It is not just bad what is happening on this subject in the community. I'm just looking at a small example from my own municipality: World Kitchen Gemert. That's part of Sistermood Foundation. They see themselves as a group of women with a message: embrace diversity and learn from other cultures. In a physical community you can meet regardless of culture, religion or nationality. They cook together, garden together, handicraft together and provide workshops and cultural evenings. They learn from each other in the meeting. They do everything with attention and love and experience that, see and taste you. Why don't you go see them? Meet them and the many beautiful cultures that only my congregation already houses. Together, they make the world a little more beautiful. Now I will return to the signed covenant with the police and the timely and effective handling of discrimination incidents. Who will judge whether things in the covenant are being properly observed? Is that the police? Is that the city itself? Or is that the victim? Providing only access to an ADV and having a covenant with the police are not enough to ensure a viable society. The letter also talks about how municipalities can help to develop a local anti-discrimination policy with further research and manuals. But isn't it much more effective simply to work together with a diverse group of people from your congregation to come up with a policy in which residents actually recognize themselves and that also fits their local community? Working together on an inclusive society from the bottom up. Actually talking to each other about these sometimes difficult topics. Really want to understand. Making policy from an understanding. Doing that city-wide thing, I can imagine for smaller towns. But for our cities, I can also imagine a neighbourhood policy very well. How's the minister looking at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u92	Thank you very much. That concludes the first term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u93	I would like to meet again four questions per Member, max; they do not have to be answered. Why don't you see for yourself who you'd like to put them on? The first opportunity is with the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I'd be happy to give her the floor for her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u94	Thank you, Mr President. I have divided my response into three blocks: national general policy, national specific actions not covered by the Minister of Justice and Security, and local policy as a third block. Mr. Chairman. Today we are speaking for the second time in response to the terrible events that took place in Giethoorn. We did so a few weeks ago in a committee debate, and it is very good that we are now considering this for a second time. We also discussed at length that this is poignant, that this should not happen, that discrimination is unacceptable and that we still have many steps to take together to ensure that we prevent discrimination. I can't do that alone; that's really something we have to do together. That is why it is important that we discuss this with each other today. People who experience discrimination experience this as an impairment of their human dignity. They feel they're being ruled out on the basis of something they can't help. That's a feeling no one should experience. It's anything but a positive experience when you find out that the only reason you're being treated differently is that you have a different gender, a disability, another skin color or another religion. In addition, discrimination sometimes does not come from malice, but sometimes we do not even realize that we discriminate. That is why it is important that we really work together to ensure that discrimination does not occur, that we support each other in order to prevent discrimination and that we give everyone in society the same chance. Mr. Chairman. The Members have all expressed urgency and have said how important it is for the cabinet to take this forward. In doing so, they have made it clear that it is not just about policy and regulation, but also about action. That urgency is also important. I understand the impatience expressed by some Members: why is the National Coordinator's national programme against Discrimination and Racism not yet in place? On the other hand, I think it is very good that our national coordinator has used just the past period to organise dozens of townhall sessions and talk to people about different types of themes and discrimination so that we can really hear from the community what we can do differently and better. He's working hard on that together with the ministries. Around the summer he comes with the national program. Mr. Chairman. The townhall sessions also bring together the most up-to-date themes, with which he will be the first to work, on which he wants to keep us sharp as a cabinet and on which he wants to work with the ministries. And as our national coordinator has said to me several times, this is my first step; after that we have many steps to take together, but we are going to start with each other. The State Commission against Discrimination and Racism was also set up on 1 May, under the direction of Mrs Joyce Sylvester. That state committee is going to see what we have to do in the longer term, but that the action starts here, with the national programme that is going to be there and with the steps that are already being taken, is extremely important. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Baarle rightly said that there must be money to carry it out. In the previous period, last year, 12 million additional structural funds were made available to deal with discrimination, so that we can now take steps together and give the national coordinator some extra support to carry out his task properly. But I also realise that we will not be done with this in the longer term, as Mrs Belhaj pointed out: if we need to take further steps together and if we need to do so, we must always ensure that plans and resources run together. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a question that several Members have put very clearly to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u95	There's an interruption for you from Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u96	It's a bit crazy following a question from my colleague, but he's getting up himself now. The Minister indicated that the plan of action is there after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u97	No, Mr. Chairman. It'll be here around the summer. The goal is to come with it before the summer. The National Coordinator is now very busy with it. But I'm gonna give it to you around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u98	It is always very important to know what the financial cycle is. When it comes to the summer, I sincerely hope that the Minister will base her budget on that plan, otherwise there will be a budget and Mr Van Baarle will look at me. We can; we can puzzle ourselves and we have to get money from somewhere. If it's okay, it'll come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u99	Yes, of course there is a financial paragraph in the national programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u100	The Minister indicated that we still have to consider with each other whether additional funding is needed. That is actually a form of little ambition, I would say. Look at what we all want to do to each other. We want to focus on more control over recruitment and selection. We want a new plan against housing market discrimination. We want a new plan against Muslim discrimination. We want a plan against labour market discrimination. We want a lot. The government wants a lot. The Chamber wants a lot. And now we have to say: do we have to see if additional resources are needed? Because of the amount of what we want, I think we are already coming to the conclusion that we are not going to make it through the current resources. Does the Minister share that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u101	This is also the reason why we made 12 million more structuralally available for tackling discrimination and racism last year. Several ministries are indeed busy planning labour market policies. Right now, I don't have any signals that we don't have enough money.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u102	"At the moment" because we're still running policies. There's a lot of policy coming up. That is good and we welcome it. I congratulate the Minister for that, and I welcome that. If we do not come to the conclusion that we also need money, then we radiate a very low level of ambition together. I think there's money to be paid, if you want to live up to those ambitions with each other. Can the Minister not say that the budget simply adds extra money? Otherwise, we will be able to appeal to all those who have to deal with discrimination: we have a lot of ambitions, but in practice it is a dead letter, because it is not a euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u103	That is precisely why there has been structural additional money, so EUR 12 million every year. The plans we're making now have financial cover. That's a good thing, because we have a lot of work to do with each other. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question that several Members have asked me. That is also a debate we have had in committee. I remember it well. Last time in the committee debate on discrimination, racism and human rights, we had an exchange of views on the use of the term 'racism'. It was a question from Mrs Simons to me. Mrs Simons asked: how would you define "racism"? At the time I told Mrs Simons: at this moment I can simply take a definition or get a definition out of it, but I think it is much more important, given the importance that the Chamber attaches to this issue, that I am not just asking myself, but that I ask the authority that is just dealing with it on a daily basis, which has a sense of the facts and has a real view on this: the College of Human Rights. At that time, I promised her that she would ask for advice from the Human Rights College. It is all true, I say to the Members: I have not received that opinion today. I expect that in the very short term. It would be a matter of days rather than weeks. So my answer is: I don't have the definition at the moment, but the reason was the debate we had two months ago. I then took action at the College of Human Rights and asked: will you support this? Because the college is the expert in this field. I also think it is important, particularly on this subject, to listen to the experts. They come within a few days instead of weeks with their advice. But it's not there right now. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Leijten asked about the Fraud Signaling voorziening, a subject on which the State Secretary for the Tax Administration is also concerned. He has indeed informed the Chamber that he will soon come forward with a response to the question of whether this is institutional racism. He is also making a number of conversations about this. I think it is important that the Secretary of State conducts these talks. I understand that, and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u104	There is a question from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u105	Don't we see exactly the problem here? The Minister of the Interior must ask experts for advice on what the definition of discrimination is and what the definition of racism is. At the same time, we work with all kinds of rules, profiles and data collections, so we don't even know if we can do that within the framework of discrimination and racism. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u106	In that debate a few weeks ago, the members of the Chamber made it clear that a definition of racism can also be looked at in different ways. In that debate, I also said that as a ruler, I do not want to just choose one to use it as my guiding definition. On the contrary, I want a college like the Human Rights College to give me an opinion as a minister on how to implement it. I would also like to do so in view of the different interpretations that exist in this area. I therefore understand that time goes beyond that. But I wanted to be careful, as I say to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u107	This criticism is not necessarily directed at this minister. I don't care if it's careful or not. It's more about the whole thing. It has been said by the Dutch Data Protection Authority that there is illegal work by the Tax Administration, because it uses the second nationality. There is a huge fine given to the Tax Administration by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. She is now also going to look at the IND, who herself said: yes, non-Western rulers, who will not comply with the rules, because they do not do so in non-Western countries. Can the Minister at least indicate that this is an unauthorized distinction and that this type of use of data in a risk profile leads to a discriminatory effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u108	That is also the reason why the College of Human Rights issued a review framework for ethnic profiling some time ago. That is precisely why we are currently working with the College of Human Rights on how to apply it in practice. A number of algorithms and a number of other things are being processed to make an analysis, including a number of motions from Mrs Leijten's party, the SP. Can this be done or can't this be done? But we are now working in practice with the Human Rights College mainly to make that testing framework applicable for ethnic profiling and to ensure that people working in the government are also supported in practice to make the right choices. I think that is very important and that is what is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u109	Mrs Leijten, your third question. I'm just pointing it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u110	I can count, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u111	Yeah, I know, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u112	Maybe I should put it to the Minister of Justice. If that's the case, I think the Minister should tell us. Well, I'm hoping for your coulance, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u113	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u114	But it was the Ministry of the Interior that asked out to other ministries: do you use cases that may indicate ethnic profiling? Then the IND came out, and it's all in a Wob request, and it says, "Yeah, we got something out there. Let's turn it off just in case." They haven't turned it on either, because that was already established internally. That is, of course, a good thing and that has been done on the basis of questions from the Chamber and on the basis of insights that we now share. Let's just call it that. Can the Minister state why this is not reported to the Chamber? "We have found it at least at the Ministry of Justice sister and so many times, namely there, there and there, but now we don't use it anymore." Because it would be a good thing if that information didn't come out of a Wob request, but we're just being reported? After all, that question was made on the basis of questions from this Chamber. How does the Minister of the Interior view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u115	In any case, I agree with Mrs Leijten that it is better if information to the Chamber does not go through a Wob request. Under Article 68 of the Constitution, we all know him, it is always important that we proactively inform the Chamber and that we share information that we have and which is also relevant for the debate with the Chamber. That's a fundamental right. On the question of informing us about the steps we are taking in the analyses, I think, among other things, through algorithms and the like, because they are also in there, I will come back later. This is also an issue which concerns the Secretary of State and I will look into it. I can't get that right now. I don't know if it counts as an interruption if I can't give the answer directly. That's up to the chairman. I'm not going over the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u116	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the counter's still on two, but thank you. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u117	I should like to comment in particular on a reply from the Secretary of State to the questions put by Mrs Simons. I specifically fell over the answer to question 13. I'm just really curious what the Minister thinks about that. In that reply it was said: "The issue of discrimination and racism is such a difficult one. We need to get everyone with us. And everyone must be done justice." I find this specific approach to the issue of racism and discrimination really bizarre. It's almost as if this cabinet says, "We all have to do justice." No, we must do justice to the people who have discriminated against the government itself! If this is the attitude of the cabinet, I hope not, and I am very curious about the reaction of this minister to it regarding the definition of racism and discrimination, then I have the feeling that we are going backwards rather than forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u118	I cannot quote the answer to Question 13 of the set of questions that Mrs Van Esch has in front of her. But if I understand Mrs Van Esch correctly, my framework is Article 1 of the Constitution. That's my frame. It's unmistakably clear. The second thing I am saying is that we are living together in a democratic rule of law. What is the importance of a rule of law? The importance of a rule of law is that a government acts on the basis of fundamental rights and that a government also protects vulnerable people when it appears that they are being displaced. If that does not happen, we will not act within the democratic rule of law. We then have to change our attitude as a government and act differently, because every human being in the Netherlands must be treated equally. Discrimination is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u119	I say in all honesty that I am concerned about that, because that answer to question 13 contains exactly the same as the letter sent by this minister to the Chamber today. If, in this way, we are once again saying that we must do justice to everyone, that this dialogue has yet to begin, despite the fact that we have been talking for two years about a supplementing affair and that dialogue has long begun to discuss this... Surely it is not possible for the cabinet to feel that we need to start this dialogue now, that we are still trying to come up with a definition? Then I think, "We've been working on that for a long time, haven't we?" The cabinet must also be working on these issues for a long time now, mustn't it? I believe that a new letter has been promised, and I am looking at this Minister again, and I really hope that the next letter on these definitions will at least do justice to these issues, rather than, in my opinion, not really doing justice to the situation of those people. While we should really be standing there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u120	Secretary of State Van Rij has indicated that he is coming with a new letter. I understand that the Chamber will soon also discuss the Fraud Signaling Provision with him. I understand the Secretary of State would like to have a few more conversations, but he will inform the Chamber. The urgency which Mrs Van Esch has expressed will be passed on to the Secretary of State. It is also important to say that significant steps have been taken with the national coordinator and with the State Commission in recent years to put this into the debate in society. That is why I think it is very good that the National Coordinator is holding all these townhall sessions. He is in the middle of the neighbourhood talking to people of different origins, with different characters, with different backgrounds, with different concerns, to make sure that discrimination is really combated.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u122	Mr. Chairman. In the end, this should also lead to actions and actions. That means, I also say to Mrs Belhaj, that making a hand-out is one thing in itself, of course, but that you only do something with it when you tell about it and work with it. We are also going to organise master classes to get this between the ears and to answer questions about what needs to be done. There are campaigns going on right now. In the football world the campaign runs OneLove. It's very important to have it. There is also a campaign on health care and pregnancy discrimination, another subject that we have not discussed here in the Chamber. But it must indeed, I say to Mrs Koekkoek, eventually also countries in the work of the government itself, among the people who work there. This means that with our Hand-Up Constitutional Review, which I sent to the Chamber and which Mrs Koekkoek also took, we are going to visit all ministries to allow this to land with the legislative lawyers and to include them in it. More importantly, we are going to include this in the training of legislative lawyers at the Academy of Legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u123	One moment. An interruption by Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u124	I am pleased to hear that the Minister will do everything in his power to encourage this as much as possible and that various municipalities will do so. If I were really mean, but I'm not, I'd almost say: it would be interesting to just make a summit of all the municipalities next year. Of course, that's complicated. Who does it best and who does it worst? It is very complicated for us that we think this is important, of course the power to direct it lies with the municipal councils, but that we do not want it to escalate in city x, where perhaps a city council thinks "good, good, we're not going to do anything with it." It is a bit faint, but does the Minister understand that I would like to point out that after her efforts there should also be a moment to make clear which municipality does something with it and which municipality does nothing with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u125	I will come back to this in more detail, but this is precisely why we have started an investigation into the inventiveness of anti-discrimination provisions and why we are talking to the Association of Dutch Municipalities about how we can strengthen and improve this. I'll go into it in more detail in the last block. I also see very good examples. I was visiting Zoetermeer the other day. I spoke to the Alderman and the ADV. You can see that there are very good steps being taken in the way they have sought cooperation, including in the neighbourhood, with civil society organisations and with very involved people. The College has included it in the college programme and has made it a separate budget article not to let it snow under in all other matters. These are very small examples, but precisely because it is separate in the budget, you can see that the Council is going to talk about it, that the subject is going to be debated, and that an alderman is going to answer for it. I shall come back to this in a little more detail, but at least this is one of the examples I would like to mention here.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u126	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u127	Mr. Chairman. I got to the next block. Mrs Leijten asked for an appreciation of motion 35772, No. 27. It's about the ministerial committee dealing with fraud. I just contacted the Secretary of State for the Interior. On her behalf, I can give the motion judgment Chamber. The Secretary of State expects to send the requested letter before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u128	Then I would like to register this motion for the voting list. Then we can vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u129	Fine. That's noted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van der Woude rightly said that the acceptance of the lhbtiq+ is stagnating. The LGBT monitor of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that there is still a lot of work to be done. Mrs Van der Woude also used a number of visual examples, for example that two women or two men cannot simply walk hand in hand across the street, let alone the acceptance of transgender people in public space, but also at work and elsewhere. This acceptance really lags behind, for example, homosexuals and bisexuals. That's what worries me. The Minister of Education, Culture and Science, who is the first to take part in this issue, therefore supports several organisations that focus precisely on the aspects of equality, security and social acceptance. This also means that he is really working on the rainbow voting agreement, in which one of the subjects is the homoconverting therapies, which the Minister will be informing the Chamber about shortly, before the summer. Of course, the Chamber itself has also taken a very valuable initiative, which is now in the First Chamber, namely the inclusion of sexual orientation and disability. At the moment, that Constitutional proposal is in the Upper House. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Esch also said: you really need to get to work. She mentioned the approach to employment discrimination as one of the examples in which real work can be done. There will be a new action plan this year to address the employment discrimination of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. She expects to send this to the Chamber before the summer recess, so before the summer recess. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mrs Van Esch's motion on modern slavery. At least in the coming period we will be working on the development of the Together against Trafficking in Human Beings programme, which my colleague, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, is also working with the Ministers for Social Affairs and Employment and Foreign Affairs. I hadn't read that letter as narrow as Mrs. Esch. She looked at today's business and that sort of thing. I don't have any signals that it doesn't and that it doesn't get caught. So maybe there's a difference... because I know the letter, of course. I sent it to the room myself. But my impression is that it is being taken more widely than Mrs Van Esch's interpretation of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u131	I hope so, of course. However, I would like to return to the answers given in connection with the motion in which the issue of trafficking in human beings was raised in a very specific way. By this motion, we mean above all, I shall be very brief, for example, that this minister simply addresses her fellow ministers on the fact that we as the Netherlands are responsible for modern slavery around the world, that this minister indicates that Dutch companies are responsible for modern slavery in other parts of the world, that this minister is responsible for tackling modern slavery, and that we as the Netherlands do not want to participate in it. I would also like to see this commitment with this minister, who is responsible and who has indicated that he wants to make this part of her policy. I'd like to see that bet again. I didn't see that very specifically in that letter. In the direction of other ministries and the business community in the Netherlands, saying that we do not accept modern slavery and that we in the Netherlands do not want to cooperate, would be such a strong signal from the Minister, who says he wants to stand up here to fight racism and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u132	It is precisely for this reason that my colleague for Justice, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment are developing the approach against trafficking in human beings together. That's why. My role as a coordinating ruler is to encourage others to represent them on parts at times like this in the Chamber. On the contrary, I think it is very good that there are other rulers who are taking matters seriously, because it should never depend on one minister. My coordinating role is to encourage and encourage others, but the actions in the various policy areas must lie with the ministers who are concerned. If it is Education, Culture and Science, it must be in education. Mrs Mutluer's story about HBO education: it's a disgrace when you're standing in front of the class.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mrs. Van Esch, this is your last question, isn't it? You know.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u134	Yes. This is my last question, but it is for our core theme. So I'm gonna ask my last question anyway. I know. I would also like to say once again that the LNV Ministry is being called upon if we still import palm oil with each other and know that this creates modern slavery. I also want us to address the Foreign Trade Minister at the moment when we are still importing wood that we know we are simply sending population groups of colour into modern slavery, that we are taking land. We, as the Netherlands, contribute to these specific themes, to modern slavery. I would also like this minister to say to those ministries: I do not want to be part of modern slavery and so we are not going to do this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u135	Mr. Chairman. An uncircumcised sound from Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals. What about palm oil and other business? I heard. I have not been introduced in all areas, but I have received the message well. And the sound is uncut.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u136	I see a satisfied Mrs Van Esch, so proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u137	Mr. Chairman. I started my input with the events in Giethoorn. We have also discussed this extensively in the debate. As I promised the Chamber, I also spoke with the mayor. I called him and talked to him about what actions are now being taken in his congregation to see what we can learn from each other. In the debate, I also said that we are one government and that we have steps to take together. The municipality is currently investigating the roles and tasks within the municipality. They are having a multitude of conversations to see what they can learn from it, what steps can be taken. Before the summer they hope to complete the investigation, so that the new council can hold the debate in the municipality. Mrs Belhaj rightly mentioned the treatment of discrimination in small municipalities. I would go further into that. I am currently talking to the Association of Dutch Municipalities about their needs, bottlenecks and signals and how we can strengthen these ADVs. I am also in the process of updating the anti-discrimination policy for municipalities. I'm going to send it to the congregations this month. I'm going to organize some master classes to make sure it lands as well. That is not all we have to do, because we also see that the findability of the ADVs is not good enough. We're trying to visualize that and call the municipalities where they're hard to find, and then encourage them to do it right. That's what we're picking up right now, and we want to see that they're findable in the end. Mrs Mutluer, in line with Mrs Belhaj, also had a number of issues. What we are seeing there is also a concern of mine... is that we have made extra money available, a doubling of last year's budget, that we are running into the Municipal Fund in order to achieve these anti-discrimination provisions locally. At least that is our image as a ministry that this does not lead to equally strong ADVs everywhere. We are now looking at how we can achieve concrete improvements. I would also like to talk to the ADVs about how they see themselves in the future, how the industry association intends to organise the quality. How are you gonna do that? And I'm also saying, if you might come to another institution, then maybe you'll come to a different kind of funding. I'm taking those steps now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u138	I would like to thank the Minister for the efforts she intends to make. Still, I do have a question. We say that we are one government. We come to the conclusion that we consider the approach to discrimination to be very important, that we are therefore setting up a national coordinator and that we are therefore setting up a state committee. It surprises me very much, however, whether it makes me think, that then it turns out that municipalities do not feel this urgency and that these municipalities do not use the resources they have received for this purpose for the ADVs. I've spoken to an ADV in the north of our country. He literally says, "I got a call from congregations." That ADV literally says he was told: we're cutting back, so I'm sorry, but you're not getting all the money. Or one gets only a very minimal share of the money. I am very concerned about this, because municipalities are, of course, working on their spring notes and budgets. Is the Minister prepared to speed up that process? For the money is not earmarked. So there's a discrepancy between what the government wants and how it's landing right now. Perhaps the Minister can reflect on that at the moment. But is she also willing to speed up efforts? Does she want to share that with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u139	I was encouraged to do that when, in my view, two weeks ago, the Chamber voted for the Belhaj motion. In that motion I was asked to look at the establishment of anti-discrimination provisions. Funding is also dependent on the establishment of such an ADV. So I'll take that issue into account. After all, we should not want there to be an institution, the money there is, but that it does not come together in the end. There is simply a legal basis underneath. We've just arranged for those ADVs to be here by now. I'm conducting an investigation into the findability on the municipal websites. We will indeed contact municipalities where the website cannot be found at the moment. We are also investigating and improving the reporting process. We're doing research on the ADV's layout. And we're working on the hand-out. It's coming out this month. It would be a nice spot on the horizon if the provision of anti-discrimination would actually become an established concept. I actually want everyone to know: oh yes, for this I have to be in the anti-discrimination provision. Many people know the National Ombudsman, the Consumers' Union. This should also be the case in the case of anti-discrimination provision. Everyone should know: I have to be there for the things about discrimination. I think that's the dot we want on the horizon. Mrs Van Dijk also pointed out that guaranteeing is simply the most important aspect. You must have secured it in society. You have to do it from the social domain. And you also need to use local initiatives to tell the good story. Mrs Van Dijk mentioned the example of the World Kitchen. I think that's a good example of how to do that with each other. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u140	Oh, there's another interruption for you from Mrs. Van der Woude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u141	I waited until the end. I'm glad the Minister shares my concerns about the Ihbti community. However, I am a little surprised by the following, and it is the second time this has happened. The fate of the minister is that she is a coordinator in this area for many ministries. That means that when it comes to something that's in another minister's portfolio, she can't just refer to that minister. I am very aware of the portfolio distribution, but I deliberately put forward two other groups today. And I expect the National Coordinator's plan to make it clear in a moment which groups and types of discrimination we are going to address. Because the national coordinator and the minister are there for all Dutch people and for combating all forms of discrimination. In that'saté pikker document'......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That means I'll see if that's in that plan later. But I can tell that I have doubts. Because I have also listened to the comments of the national coordinator. So far, I've heard racism. That's the job, too. But I don't hear anything else. That has also led to this contribution from me. I would like so much to hear that the Minister's role as coordinator across the board... I'd love to hear what we're gonna do. We're not gonna take over, because that's not what the co-ordinatorship is for. But what's the whole thing? What will be the coherent approach to all forms of discrimination against all Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u142	There can be no difference of opinion with Mrs Van der Woude, because I started with Article 1 of the Constitution: discrimination is prohibited. Then it doesn't matter what form of discrimination it is, whether it's pregnancy discrimination, Muslim discrimination or discrimination against Jews who walk through a neighborhood with a yarmulke. It does not matter what form of discrimination it is: discrimination is prohibited and unacceptable. So you can't sort that out, I'll tell Mrs. Van der Woude. That's what I hear back to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u143	Mrs. Van der Woude.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u144	I have also asked you about street harassment, violence against women and the causes of this behaviour against women. I said explicitly: not the repressive side. There are laws. I myself am the initiator of a repressive law. However, that is not enough. You didn't agree to that. On my other point, you said that it's in OCW. Can I assume that there is a coherent view of this in the plan that is coming to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u145	Mrs Van der Woude is right to say that I should also answer questions from other directors as well as possible. That is why I also answer the questions put to the Secretary of State for the Interior. But this time the Secretary of State for Justice and Security is sitting next to me, who is just going on this subject and there is such an excellent answer... did I say "State Secretary"?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u146	It's the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u147	The Minister of Justice and Security. I misspoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u148	That's very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u149	And also an older department, so you have to be completely careful. I would like to say a few words about the National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism. I think it is important to emphasise that his mission is to cover all grounds and forms of discrimination. There must be no misunderstanding about that. This time, the Minister of Justice and Security sits next to me. It is on this subject, so the Minister is coming up with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u150	Mrs. Van der Woude, your penultimate question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u151	Mr. Chairman. I may have forgotten one part of it. The National Coordinator against Discrimination and Racism will, of course, go into all grounds and domains. That's what Mrs. Van der Woude asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u152	I'm very happy to hear that anyway. I also have some news on the prevention of street harassment. We'll handle that at OCW. The Minister of OCW is not here. Mariëtte Hamer gets a role in that too. So this isn't with JenV. I think that's what makes it so complicated. I don't envy the Minister in making chocolate of what's true. But this is the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u153	In my opinion, it is precisely a beautiful responsibility to bring everything together, because we want to achieve results with each other in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u154	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security for her answer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A safe and inclusive Netherlands where everyone can be themselves, where no one is excluded, harassed, intimidated, yelled at, or even subjected to violence over who they are. A safe and inclusive Netherlands where your country of origin, your sexual orientation, your gender, your religion or any other ground does not make you treated differently or less safe. I would also like to dwell explicitly on the point that this should not apply to one group either. We shouldn't be selective. I just heard Mrs Belhaj say in an interruption debate with Mr Eerdmans that standing up for gays and women on the right would be narrative in a right-wing Chamber and that attention should also be paid to the other side. I don't think you should be selective about this. I do not think Mrs Belhaj meant that either. I would like to dwell on that. It's about always standing up for all groups that are not treated properly and equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u156	The right-wing narrative was about the fact that when you talk about racism and discrimination, you say: but you must not say that they are Dutch people with a Moroccan background. That's what I was referring to. I did not refer to the fact that certain parties are using this debate to pay more attention to women's harassment. It's about that fact. That's why I referred to Twitter. It's enough in the Netherlands. A majority in this Chamber prefers to talk about it every day. But once we have a debate about people who are victims, talk about racism and discrimination, not just about not getting the space. That's what I mean by a right narrative.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u157	Thank you for this clarification and clarification. I think we are on the same page when it comes to defending those who are discriminated against and marginalised at the time. We'll share that. Mr. Chairman. A safe and inclusive Netherlands is also a country in which the unsub feels the consequences of his actions, is punished and learns from them, so that he does not make the same mistake again. But that's how it should be. Various examples and various questions have also shown that we still see too often that incidents and events are not followed in this way, for example where there is no evidence of discrimination. On the victim side, anyone who feels a victim of discrimination in their place of residence, in the labour market, online or wherever, and in any example that has just come along, should feel heard and be able to go to the authorities. This can be done both in the municipal anti-discrimination services, the Human Rights College or the National Ombudsman. In addition, any citizen who has had to deal with discrimination can appeal to the police for notification or a declaration. Where discrimination has been reported, the Public Prosecutor's Office may proceed to criminal proceedings in the event of criminal and provable discrimination. There will be some answers to the questions about this. Mr. Chairman. The recognition of discrimination or a discriminatory aspect at an early stage is therefore extremely important. On the perpetrator's side, there must be evidence of discrimination. Criminal law is an essential element of discrimination. Within this final piece, it is extremely important that there is a good connection between the various parties, so that all discrimination incidents get the attention they deserve and do not fall between ship and ship. Mr. Chairman. I've got four folders here for me. The first one is about the D.A.'s office. I'll start with the case in Giethoorn. Questions have been asked about this and, of course, it was the real reason. I'll have a map of the police. Then I have a folder of extreme right-wing threats. These were mostly Mr Klaver's questions. And then I've got a map of street harassment lhbti. When it comes to the D.A. and Giethoorn, of course I'll start with the family from Giethoorn. I indicated earlier that I would contact the family as soon as the criminal investigation was completed. As a Member of Parliament, I have often contacted people who had to deal with this type of case. We call it "casuistic," but it'll happen to you. As Minister of Justice and Security, I have been associated in other contexts. The D.A.'s office has reported that the criminal investigation is still ongoing. There are also a number of Article 12 procedures. As long as the investigation and procedures are under way, I do not think it is appropriate to intervene in this, and if I were to contact them as a minister, that would be intervention. I thought it was important to explain this, because I would have done this differently by my nature and in the context of my work as a Member of Parliament. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Belhaj still had specific questions about the case and what happened around it. She told the family to leave the house; we were too late. She asks how we are going to ensure that victims in the future, or other victims at the moment, will be well helped. Discrimination and racism are totally unacceptable in our society. Every incident is one too many. If they do occur, it is extremely important that victims feel genuinely heard. They must be able to go to different bodies. It is important that these organisations work well together. That is the starting point. For example, JenV is financing a project of the RADAR foundation, in which she explores, together with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, anti-discrimination facilities, Victim help and other partners, the possibilities for achieving a good outcome within the discrimination chain and how the Public Prosecutor can be better able to make the most appropriate intervention. In this context, it is also important to mention that, among other things, real cases will help to make it clear where the opportunities and points of improvement lie within cooperation in the criminal justice chain, so that we learn from this concretely. In addition, the Ministry of Justice and Security had talks with the police, Victim Support Netherlands and anti-discrimination facilities to investigate whether bottlenecks are experienced in the referral of victims. In this way we work very hard on all sides, and to ensure that the chain is close and of course to learn from the moments when things should have gone better. I think this is the maximum I can say about this case. Mr Van Baarle asked if all reports of discrimination with the police... let me rephrase it. He says there have been 46 convictions and asks me what that means, given the total number of notifications or declarations of discrimination. It is true that only a limited percentage of reports lead to criminal convictions. That applies to a lot of crime phenomena. We have often discussed this in other debates in our committee. Not every report relates to a criminal offence. Municipal anti-discrimination facilities and the police have the knowledge to make that difference. It's not like nothing happens if a report doesn't have a criminal prosecution. It's not like it's gonna stop there. Anti-discrimination facilities and police also play a role in these alternative cases. It is important that there is a meaningful decision. Sometimes an alternative decision is more appropriate. I would like to mention, for example, the start of a mediation process or the conduct of stop calls with offenders, which, of course, may also have consequences. If the police record the report, the Public Prosecutor's Office will assess whether there is indeed a criminal conduct that can be proved in court. That's how we set it up. So that number doesn't necessarily say that all the other reports are not being done or that they wouldn't go well. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm with the police folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u158	An interruption for you from Mr Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u159	Apart from the fact that a number of 46 out of a total of over 6,000 is apparently very little, and I do not think that much is the problem, as far as I am concerned, that we do not know very well what is happening with these alternative matters. This is evident from answers to written questions I asked earlier. That's not gonna be tracked. So we do not know what kind of punishment is being applied in that world of alternative actions. Is that an educational measure? Is that mediation, mediation? In this way we have far too little control over what is happening in that chain. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that we get a better grip on this, so that we know that discrimination simply leads to a form of punishment? How is she gonna do that? That does not necessarily have to be a judicial conviction, because I believe in alternative forms of punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u160	I think this is a very important question. That doesn't mean it was all discrimination in all those reports, does it? I mean, there's a shift in there, of course. And it may also be that after a conversation people eventually decide not to do anything with it. So there are also a lot of variations at the front possible. I do think that, in the case of discrimination, in the case of the examples I know alone, I should not base it on that, of course, in the Minister's answer, it is very difficult to identify the perpetrator in the end, or to say: here it really is. So there's a whole trajectory or spectrum ahead of it. And when there are discussions with anti-discrimination services, with the police, it may be that mediation is being started. What I can do is I know that there is a great deal to be reported about in the second term, and I would like to return to the question of whether that can be found in a particular place for Mr Van Baarle, and what that looks like. And that will depend on what a person chooses. But if Mr Van Baarle is okay with it, I will see if we can make it more concrete in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u161	I see Mr Van Baarle nodding. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u162	I'd be a cop. I think Mrs Belhaj's question and Mr Van Baarle's question was: what are the anti-discrimination detectives going to do, when are they going to start and what does that look like? They start around the summer. Recruiting's in progress right now. Exactly I can't report it; before or after the summer, but the coming time. They will be part of the Expertise Centre Approach Discrimination of the police. They will develop, together with content experts and information analysts in the pilot expertise that helps police officers in all units to deal with declarations of discrimination. Because that is what we want, of course, in the end: the inclusion of a declaration of discrimination is a generic police task, and we want every cop, everyone who stands there at the counter, to recognize this right away and act properly. That's also invested in the units in the country. And this was another specific question from Mrs Belhaj, if I am not mistaken. She asked: what exactly are these tasks, what are they going to do? They will focus, among other things, on "sustainability" and that is in a pilot to advise and support units in complex discrimination investigations. They will advise and support or participate in discrimination investigations with a national impact. They will carry out analyses on discrimination investigations, in order to come up with proposals for improvement on content and process, among other things. They are going to inventory and look for alternative forms of exactly what Mr Van Baarle has just been looking for, and translate them into an approach or a method of implementation, so that it can really be part of the perspective of action. They are going to make proposals for and give substance to the scope of various tasks of the anti-discrimination detective. So there are a lot of elements they are going to deal with, and hopefully in the relatively short term, by now. Then I think I had a question from Mrs Belhaj. She says: is there any improvement in the handling of declarations? It is good to stress that the police are very busy with the perspective of "Policy for All." Of course, this includes all these developments; it is an important part of them. It focuses on the awareness and recognition of the phenomenon of discrimination or racism; that, at the time when someone is going to report it, you will soon recognize it. The pilot of the centre of expertise and the anti-discrimination detectives will provide support and advice to the generic teams in the approach. So we also hope, of course, that there will really be an improvement in this way and a tightening up of it. You also had a specific question about the monitoring of the legal framework. I think that was Mrs Belhaj, too. And that was on the basis of a motion by DENK if I am not mistaken about ethnic profiling and other instruments: do they really have an effect or not, how about that? The police have launched a PhD research into, among other things, the effects of simulations of controls with virtual reality glasses and the information offered through the ProCo app. That's a police app; that's where that information comes in. This study is expected to run for another three years. That is an intensive study; it is looked at very seriously. As promised following the Azarkan motion, your Chamber will be informed of the state of play of the data collected by the ProCo app every six months through the Police half-year report. In addition, there are a number of national instruments to monitor how citizens experience the treatment by the police, which will also cover aspects of equal treatment in equal cases. So you can think of the biennial Safety Monitor that the CBS carries out at national level. The latest figures were published by the CBS last March. This will be reported again in the autumn in the next half-year report and will be explained in detail. Mrs Belhaj also mentioned the percentage of a few years ago, which barely 4% of police officers are familiar with the framework of action. That is a very valid point. Fortunately we have been a few years further and there has been considerable investment to raise awareness and prevent ethnic profiling. An investigation will be carried out to look at the new figures. That investigation will start at the end of this year. I hope, together with Mrs Belhaj, that the percentage will be much higher. But a lot has been done. This research will take into account the state of awareness and use of the tools to promote professional control and thus to combat ethnic profiling. Then Mr Van Baarle had the question of whether Muslim discrimination is recorded separately in the police systems. In the case of registration, discrimination is considered to be the offence. This means that the law does not distinguish between grounds for discrimination. In the registration, discrimination based on belief is recorded separately, but there is no refinement of the specific beliefs. This requires a manual analysis of all text fields in the declaration, so this is not done. Then I had a question from Mrs Van Dijk. It was about the police agreement to deal with discrimination incidents in a timely and effective manner. She actually had a very specific question: who is judging, who has the last word? Is that the police, the city itself, or the victim? That's joint. That really is a joint process. Cooperation agreements have also been established in this way. It's looked at together in a case like that. Then I'm basically at my next folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u163	But first you get Mr. Van Baarle with his last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u164	Yes, that's right, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about this categorization in the area of Muslim discrimination. The Minister can, of course, improve me if I am wrong, but my information was that it did happen in the past, but that they stopped. That is not to have some sort of competition, but my information is that, rightly, it does happen in the field of anti-Semitism, for example. Then a breakdown is made by faith. If that's not true, the Minister can correct me. But otherwise, my question would be why that stopped. Wouldn't it just make sense to just re-enter that separate registration?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u165	It is also very practical that, apart from whether you should want this and what you can do with it, Muslim discrimination becomes... We do have a definition issue. You have a lot of different definitions. This may be about religious discrimination, but it also includes discrimination on origin or nationality. There must therefore be a clear definition in order to obtain a reliable picture at all. That is not the case now. Maybe it's good to look at the following. On 24 May, so very soon next week, because we are already in the middle of May, the figures for last year will be published. This report will address Muslim discrimination based on the information currently available in the systems. Then it becomes a bit more concrete. In the offer letter I will inform you more about the further possibilities to give a better picture of Muslim discrimination. I think it is good to go into more detail about what it has been like in the past, because I am not ready to do so now. I can take that into account: why don't we do it now and what about other elements? Then we'll make a round story of that. And then I have no doubt that Mr Van Baarle will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u166	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u167	Then I come to extreme right-wing threats. Mr Klaver has asked several questions about this. Perhaps it would be a good idea to make a distinction between right-wing extremism, the violent side, and on the other hand the extreme right, a phenomenon in society. That's an important distinction for us at JenV. I'll deal with that in a moment. It's two elements. Mr Klaver's first question I have here is: how great is the threat of the extreme right? A terrorist attack from right-wing extremist angle in the Netherlands is imaginable. That's also in the most recent Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands. That's the DTN 56. I don't like abbreviations myself, but DTN will come back a few times, so I'll repeat it. The AIVD also confirms that threat. This threat is mainly due to the involvement of young Dutch men in international online networks. These are, in particular, closed social media platforms. That's where we see it mostly. The supporters glorify and justify terrorist violence to accelerate a race war. They want to create chaos in society, in which the current political system can be replaced by a white, national-socialist ethno-state. That is what we are seeing in concrete terms at the moment. In the Netherlands, there are at least a few hundred Dutch people between 12 and 20 years old. Perhaps the questions are getting a bit mixed up, but Mr Klaver had also asked: how many young men are willing to travel to follow militia training? Specifically with regard to Ukraine, because that is the most current example and the most current situation: the Dutch government has called from the start of the war not to travel to Ukraine. For whatever reason or with any motive, on any side: don't do it. This is also reflected, among other things, in the negative travel advice issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, it was and is not prohibited to travel to Ukraine. Since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, a small number of signals have been received about Dutch people who would have joined the fight. The exact size of this group is unknown. I have been told, however, that these numbers are very small. Wherever possible, that is monitored and monitored, but people don't report it if they just go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u168	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u169	Yeah, I saw the signal. What parallels to the approach of foreign jihadist fighters can we draw? The whole counter-terrorism approach, with its broad range of measures, is used where necessary to counter, alongside other types of terrorism, the threat from right-wing extremist angle and terrorist angle; for example, the widely applicable approach in the local person-oriented approach. There are, however, some important shift in emphasis within the approach to right-wing extremism. Because there is a lot going on online and also on the closed part of the internet, we notice that these networks are very variable and that signaling is very difficult. An absolute priority for the coming period will therefore continue to be to identify and identify online, of course by the competent services. Mr Klaver asked: are we working with other countries? That is a fair question, because these types do not comply with national borders. At European level, the EU regulation on terrorist content contributes online to countering the spread of terrorist content online. In addition, there is increasing international attention to right-wing extremist online expressions. This can be seen, for example, in the European Internet Forum, in which the European Commission, EU Member States and Internet parties meet. The subject is high on the agenda both at official and political level, so good contacts on this issue with Germany, France, the UK and the US are good. Mr Klaver also asked: what have we learned from previous interventions? The counter-terrorism approach continues to assess whether it is still sufficient or whether new developments call for new instruments. The counter-terrorism approach in the Netherlands is, in principle, ideologically neutral: it does not matter from what angle you come to or would like to come to this kind of idea or action. However, the local person-oriented approach plays a central role in the Netherlands. With that, every case is custom-made. To make partners aware of a specific threat, especially of the young men I was talking about, knowledge and information are shared with and made available to local professionals. I can fully explain how that works, but I think Mr Klaver was also asking questions from Volt O'Brien mainly in search of what we know about the support and development of this. Perhaps one more comment, if I may, on something on which there was also a specific question, because I see Mr Klaver coming closer to the microphone. Ompopulation theories are a well-known theme within right-wing extremists and right-wing populism and are also mainly discussed online within these circles. The threat posed by these theories is that they can serve as an inspiration for an attack in the Netherlands, as has been the case in the examples mentioned by Mr Klaver. So these are very important things, which we also mention in the most recent DTN.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u170	I am aware that this is mentioned in the DTN. It may be me, but I haven't read anything in there about... On the subject of extravagant travellers, I was not concerned with the people who are now considering travelling to Ukraine, but specifically with young people from the far-right who are heading towards Germany, Poland and Hungary to take militia training there. I know that there is great fear of this in the surrounding countries. My question was specifically addressed to this group. Do we have a picture of whether this is happening in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u171	That what we have as a phenomenon, as movement, is indeed in the threat picture. These are fortunately not large numbers, but it is still very worrying. The intelligence services may have reasons to monitor individuals. Of course they can't say anything about that, but Mr Klaver is right to ask me. This specific example is currently unknown to NCTV. That's why it's not in the most recent DTN.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u172	For my group, too, this is a very serious concern. I heard the minister. It's not on camera at the NCTV right now. I do hope that this will continue to be the subject of great attention. I would be pleased if the Justice Chamber could be given separate information on this matter. It doesn't have to be right, but I really think we should follow this as a room. What developments are there? What trends? What action can be taken in this regard? In a repressive sense, but above all, what can we do to ensure that they do not radicalize and travel too much and then we have to intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u173	Specifically, it really lies with the AIVD. Perhaps it is an idea for our services to look together to see if such a letter can be made towards the JenV budget. We will certainly see from the NCTV what more we can report on this. If I may speak on behalf of my colleague, I say that we will at least look at it. You'll get that letter from JenV. Then we'll see if the AIVD can hook up to that. The budget will be in the autumn. Then I think we will also be talking about the bases of the NCTV. We do miss, here in this conversation, but also in the DTN, for example, part of the image, because the NCTV is not currently monitoring the internet. That was stopped last year, for good reasons. We need to settle the basis with each other right now. That is not yet the case. That means you just miss certain elements in this kind of thing. I have to be honest about that, too. Discussions also take place on open sources. These are not things that the intelligence services look at in this way. It is when it comes to an individual, but the phenomena and developments lie with the NCTV. They can't do research on that right now and they can't make an analysis of it. They will not be able to explain it. Around the budget we also talk about the NCTV. If that is not the case, I will make sure that we include this element in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u174	I really like a separate letter, because I want to pull it apart from the position of the NCTV. I specifically asked you how the AIVD or Home Affairs contributes to this, because I can guess the answer of the Minister of the Interior, namely that no announcements are made about the mode of operation of the services. I don't want to ask about that either. I am concerned that we have this as clearly as possible and act as preventively as possible, but also intervene where necessary. This is just a very real threat to our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u175	Yeah, I'll share that. That is indeed one of the core tasks of the NCTV. Once again, we do not have that picture at the moment, but we will come back to the budget with a letter on whether we have that image and what images we have. Then we can look further from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u176	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u177	That was him, wasn't it? Oh, no, sorry. Of course, I still have the map of street harassment and Ihbti. Excuse me. That has just been mentioned in the debate. I think it is a good idea to think about it, because it is an extremely important subject. I started this topic ten years ago in the Amsterdam city council. It was very hard fighting to get this subject on the agenda. I was told most of all: it's part of it, isn't it? Mostly, I heard that from women. A lot of women said, "I never have any problem with this." If you then went on to ask, "Do you consider what you're wearing and how do you walk on the street where?" Everyone said yes. It took my predecessor four years, and it took me three years. A total of seven years to get it on the agenda and implement a criminal offence locally. Things have turned out differently. I'm glad the House of Representatives is taking steps in that regard. It is a beautiful circle that I will soon be able to come up with a law that really pays attention to it. That's the new Sexual Crimes Act. It will also criminalize sexual harassment. Mr. Chairman. This legislation also means that victims will be better protected. Of course, it remains very difficult to demonstrate and prove this, but that does not mean that you can just leave it alone. The street is supposed to be ours and not the scum that thinks we can attack, because we want to do what we want to do and we want to walk freely across the street. I think numbers are incredibly important. When I started in Amsterdam, there were no figures about this. Interest organisations had figures, but the municipality, for example, did not. I'm glad we're getting it sharper, because then you're getting sharper and sharper where it happens. Then you can alert the boas and the police to that, too. You can therefore draw attention to this and I hope that we will make it clear, step by step, that it is unacceptable behaviour, that it is not normal and that more and more women are becoming aware that you should not accept it. Mrs Van der Woude asked if it was there in place of lhbti-persons. In my example, I also refer to women, but this is indeed also about two men hand in hand, a man with a yarmulke or a woman with a headscarf. If you're intimidated on the street and you feel unsafe, it's unacceptable and then we have to stand in front of them. Mr. Chairman. The new criminalisation will cover both non-verbal and physical sexual harassment. So it really makes it possible to take action against it. It has already been mentioned and I do not want to repeat matters. And if I don't want to, I think I'm done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u178	I'm not going to contradict that. Nor do others, and I therefore thank the two directors for their sharp, complete and concise response. It's really nice to see. I am looking at colleagues to see if there is still a need for a short second term. Mr. Klaver doesn't, but Mrs. Mutluer does, for example, and we're gonna do that. You have one third of the speaking time and therefore one minute twenty. I will be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Baarle van DENK. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is not conducting an ongoing general public campaign to combat racism and discrimination and promote equality;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a general public campaign aimed at combating and raising awareness of racism and discrimination and promoting equality, as well as increasing awareness of reporting and declaration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the willingness to report discrimination is not kept annually and when measured, is not always broken down by land;]] [[calls on the Government to measure the willingness to report discrimination more frequently and to divide it according to the grounds for discrimination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are new plans and a further plan of action from the NCDR;]] [[considers that combating racism and discrimination deserves priority and urgency;]] [[calls on the Government to send a separate integrated annex setting out all the commitment, targets, plans and resources of different ministries in the field of combating discrimination and racism when presenting the 2023 budget, as well as the work programme of the NCAD and the implementation of the elected Chambers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action to improve the conduct of discrimination cases through the criminal justice chain, including:]] [[repetition of the WODC investigation The conduct of discrimination cases through the criminal justice chain;]] [[dissemination of knowledge of the Designation and promotion of its application;]] [[promotion of expertise within all public prosecutors in the field of discrimination;]] [[calls on the government to launch the pilot discrimination detectives around the summer and to report next year on the lessons learned and their implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-302]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Baarle.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-303]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Belhaj.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-304]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Baarle and Mr Belhaj.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u181	You too. I call Mrs Belhaj of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u182	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their answers. They offer a good perspective, but everything is of course in care and speed combination. I think society is getting a little impatient. Secondly, I am pleased that the Minister is getting on with the motion on the ADVs. I do hope that there will be a moment when we can see a list of how many municipalities have worked on it enthusiastically. But perhaps it will prove that a number of municipalities have not done so. Mr President, I will conclude. It is important to talk about racism and discrimination here in the House of Representatives once in a while. This sometimes happens on different subjects, but putting it at the centre, having different perspectives, fighting against each other in those perspectives when it is necessary, I would say, is very important. If we stop talking about this, many people in society are going to turn away from us as politics, and on the other hand those who want to disrupt our society get free play to sow hatred, and we must never allow that to happen in this sweet Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u183	Thank you. Mr Klaver has apologized, and I am going to give the floor to Mrs Koekkoek. For his absence, by the way; there may be more things he should apologize for, but we are not going to talk about that now. I can never keep bad jokes to myself. I apologize for that. I apologize for that. Mrs Koekkoek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u184	Mr. Chairman. It's late enough for good jokes. First of all, I agree with what has just been said, that it is very important that we talk about racism and discrimination on a regular basis, precisely in order to ensure that everyone lives well with each other. I have one motion. To begin with, the Court concluded that algorithms of government do not meet the basic requirements. I said it in my own words and it was also appointed by colleagues. We understand that you can't stop using algorithms overnight, but you can't continue using a rotten system. We're already taking some nice steps. There will be a mandatory algorithm registry, an algorithm watchdog, and we are cleaning up contaminated data at the request of the Marijnissen/Klaver motion. But to make a system change, a proper ex ante review is necessary, and that is what this motion is looking for. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government uses or supports IT systems and algorithms for automatic decision-making in the implementation of policies and legislation;]] [[noting that it follows from the examination of the General Court that algorithms used by the State do not always meet the basic requirements set by the General Court, inter alia due to lack of prior checking;]] [[Whereas the use of algorithms and IT systems by the government in the past has led to discriminatory outcomes;]] [[Calls on the Government to propose technical and organisational measures to ensure that, prior to the use of algorithms and IT systems, the government and its implementing organisations assess possible discriminatory effects in their application;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for stopping the implementation or use of discriminatory algorithms and IT systems where it cannot be established that they do not have a discriminatory effect,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Koekkoek.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-306]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u185	I understand very well that Mrs Koekkoek of a somewhat smaller group in this Chamber cannot be present at all the debates, but of course all this has already been promised. The biggest problem that the SP has is that I will say so in my term as well, is that the running algorithms, which we know they cannot pass the test on discrimination and care, are not shut down. At least I wanted to make that point. The motion is sympathetic, but it has all been promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u186	To respond briefly: we have looked at that precisely, because a great deal has already been promised. We have read all the motions and also seen the technical briefing scheduled for next week. There is a lot about cleaning up data and indeed about improving future algorithms. That is why the motion also says clearly: stop at the moment when it cannot be demonstrated that there is no discrimination. However, this motion sees not only the algorithm itself, but also all the systems around it, its use and human choices. I therefore hope that this motion will have a somewhat more systemic impact than the individual commitments made so far. I am also tabling the motion now because it should be with the coordinating minister. I could have tabled the motion in the main debate on digital matters, but it would become much more specific and technical.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u187	We're all looking for what there is a majority for. The motions in which I said "if you have any doubts about an algorithm, then stop it or stop it altogether," none of them got a majority here. So I hope yours will make it. But it has already been promised that there will be a human rights test and, as you said, that there will be an authority. I think that there is already, that is the General Court of Auditors, and it is very hard on its supervision. I wanted to give you that, because I notice that this is nothing to the detriment of Mrs Koekkoek that we sometimes have a lot of similar motions, all of which have already been adopted. That is what I consider to be a bit complicated in order to check exactly which motions the government is carrying out, and perhaps sometimes as a signal to the government. But that's the conversation we might have to have more behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u188	I'd like that. Do you still want to respond? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u189	I think it is very nice how the interruption is done. I recognize the problem. I've really struggled with this motion. What this motion should do, in particular, is also a signal to the Minister, to give the context of it is really looking ahead. That's actually what you normally do when you make a law. Then you test him on all kinds of conditions. With this motion, we intend to do so. I see a gap in that at the moment, precisely because we started talking about algorithms, but those are existing ones. We have taken good steps in this regard. I've also deliberately mentioned them. But I hope that we will deal more savvy, smarter with the resources we have, and that we will not only limit it to algorithms, but that we will take all the systems around it and test the human decisions in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u190	Thank you. I call Mrs Mutluer, Labour Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions, and also for expressing the shame about what happened at that college. I can tell you that the teacher in question is now going to receive training as a sanction. Probably won't act on it then, but whether that thought is removed, I doubt, so I'm not quite reassured yet. Mr. Chairman. I'm here for 90 days. I have had to put in a lot of written questions over the past few months about discrimination among lhbtq, police, algorithms. We just talked about the motion bias on police algorithms. We really need to move on. This is a big problem. I welcome the National Coordinator. I'm also very curious what he's going to pick up. But in the end, we have to stop it. I've prepared a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Municipal Anti-Discrimination Services Act obliges municipalities to set up an independent anti-discrimination provision (adv);]] [[Whereas an adv has the statutory tasks to assist in the resolution of discrimination complaints;]] [[considers that the role of Advisors is also to prevent discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Advisors can carry out preventive tasks and to consider the financial resources needed to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Mutluer, Mr Van Baarle, Mr Inge van Dijk, Mr Leijten and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-307]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u192	Everyone, I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u193	Yes. In the meantime, why don't I look it up for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u194	Yeah, sure, I'd like that. Anyway, that's totally out of the question. Thank you very much for your answer. I didn't bring any motions tonight. I also have the feeling that there are a lot of plans, lots of ideas and lots of options to implement, so I would like to point out here: let's start quickly. I have two more questions that I feel have not been fully answered in the first term. We're about to get the National Coordinator's plan. I wonder if the government will take over everything in that plan one-on-one. I want to know what the national coordinator has to say about this. Does he have the power of perseverance to actually implement that plan as he sees fit? I would have asked that question in the first period. I am curious about the answer, because I think it is relevant to see how the cabinet will assess that plan. Then, of course, about modern slavery. I have the feeling that this Minister knows that I am going to ask again what she has done with the subject and how she has taken it up. In my first term, I had also asked the specific question as to whether she could give this spearhead to the national coordinator. Of course, that does not have to be in the plan that is coming up, but it might seem to me a theme that he could take into account in his plans that will follow in the rest of the year. Perhaps that can also be addressed. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u195	Thank you very much. This was your 954th day here. Now I'm quitting, because Mrs. Leijten will be here shortly. We don't want to know! I hear Mrs Leijten wants to know. Well, let's go. First, Mrs Van der Woude has the floor. I see she doesn't need it. Mrs. Leijten does. It speaks on behalf of the Socialist Party. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u196	Far too many days, I would say, Mr President. As Mrs Belhaj said, it is good to have this debate on a regular basis. However, it cannot remain with this debate, the good words and the good plans, because we have really built a deeply discriminatory government in recent years. I think it scared us all. We have all been optimistic in the time that we thought computer systems can make a good risk profile independent of people and that it enables you to shape your government efficiently, effectively and data-drivenly. I hope the government will also see that we should not continue on that road. That was my speech in the first term, also because other Members of Parliament very well pointed out other points in this broad debate, in this important debate. To be quite honest, I do see things happening that I think is "yes, that's going in the right direction," as with the IND, but that comes from a Wob request instead of being actively reported to the Chamber. I sincerely regret that. Next Wednesday we will have a technical briefing, provided by the Ministry of the Interior, on the state of disposal of contaminated and shared data. That's very nice. I also hope that everyone will be present to see the impact of this clean-up operation, but also the impact of sharing that polluted data. But I also hope that there will eventually be a majority to get rid of the way this data-driven and data-driven government works. That's why I'm not filing a motion right now. I have already tabled the same kind of motion twice in the last month. I've tried every time to move towards the Secretary of State, which may have made it feasible. It's not at the moment. But I won't rest until it gets there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u197	Thank you very much. You are on the impressive number of 5.538 days, Mrs Leijten. Now I'm really quitting. I'm gonna see if Mr. Eerdmans wants the floor. That's what he wants. The floor is up to him. He speaks for JA21. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u198	Thank you. It is indeed a good thing that we are talking about discrimination and racism. That's important. It is also important that we do so mainly on the basis of facts and statistics, not only on the basis of opinions that are politically sound, or on the basis of assumptions that are politically coloured. I argued that on behalf of JA21. Because whether you're left or right, you're against racism. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is against racism and discrimination. That's what I wanted to say. So I'm actually saying that the debate is offended if you're not aware of it. Then the debate is going completely in the wrong direction. Maybe the government can respond to that. Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in equal cases, people should be treated equally;]] [[Whereas the debate on discrimination and racism is often based on sentiments rather than facts;]] [[states that discrimination exists among all groups, but that the Netherlands is not a racist country,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Eerdmans and Mr Ephraim.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30950-308]]
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u199	I am particularly talking about the start-up. I just asked Mr Eerdmans a question about profiling. I asked him if that could be discriminatory. Then he said, "Well, you should just do that. Statistics work." Now he says, "You have to stick to the facts." The fact is that this profiling on the basis of the statistics resulted in a mega fine from the Tax Administration because of the unlawful processing of personal data, which led to discrimination. That is the opinion of the Personal Data Authority. Does Mr Eerdmans perhaps call that a fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u200	Yes. That is a fact, but a fact is also that I do not think that the Tax Office is racist with that. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u201	Who said that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u202	I thought you were just saying something about that in your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u203	This is your last question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u204	There is a manual within the Tax Administration, a work instruction, that says: you will select on people of a particular religion. That doesn't mean anything about people's behavior. By the way, there was also: you will select on people with high health allowances. There was. This is an institutional task for officials who may not want to do so. What would Mr Eerdmans call that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u205	I've already mentioned that. That's risk profiling. I've said that before. Yeah, well. It's about gifts. I know that the FIOD recently conducted a whole study in Limburg on gifts to mosques. By the way, donations to churches were also included in the list of the Tax Administration. It was a question of nationality, of dual nationalities. People with double homes in other countries. Of course, that's what they're looking at. The IRS isn't gonna see if anyone's Turkish, but they're gonna look at possible fraudulent acts. That's what happened, yes. They've been shot through there. I've said that before. That list has been established, people have been found innocent and people have been found guilty. But the fact that the Tax Administration is looking for terms such as dual nationality, age and gifts... The starting point is not that they deliberately wanted to discriminate. The effect may be that people have been unfairly targeted as fraud, but, again, those selection criteria have been applied on the basis of profiling of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u206	I have the impression that Mr Eerdmans simply does not fully understand what a risk profile is and how it relates to racism and discrimination, for example, when you say that someone who has a particular origin is more fraudulent. That's not true. That's the interesting thing. What happened is that there was an assumption, without any basis. There may have been correlation, but there was no causal link. That was taken as the basis to say: that is why we always pick out the people who have a Turkish last name and we are going to make that group more structurally subject to additional controls than other people. That's what's going on. A risk profile, as you whip it away a little bit, isn't it. It's just real discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u207	But not based on...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u208	No, no, no. I'll see if that's the question first. I'll give you the floor in a minute. Is that it, Mrs. Belhaj?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u209	You can disagree, but if you really say things that just don't add up, that can mean two things: you choose consciously or you haven't understood. I would like to ask Mr Eerdmans: read it again and stop suggesting that a lot of people here are trying to suggest that there is racism and discrimination. There is racism and discrimination in the Netherlands. I'm very sorry, Mr. Eerdmans, through the chairman, but it is. Why do you just refuse to look at the facts? The figures are there, in declarations about discrimination in the workplace and about brokers. What more does Mr Eerdmans want from facts to understand that racism is real in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u210	I'd like to ask you a question. So you think the IRS is racist?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u211	No, no. You're not gonna ask any questions. Here we go again and we'll go on for just as long until you do it right for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u212	The night's not over yet. Mr President, through you: then Mrs Belhaj thinks that she should also say that out loud, the Tax Office is racist, because she has been actively looking for Turkish people because they are fraudulent in their origins? Is that the answer here from D66 here tonight? That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u213	I would like to answer, but I ask Mr Eerdmans a question. Then it's very strange that something is being thrown at me that I have to answer first. You're filing a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u214	No, I didn't file a motion. Here we go again. Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u215	Mr Eerdmans has the intention to table a motion, and indeed he can still choose not to do so in which he suggests that it is not about facts. I just mentioned a few facts and my question to Mr Eerdmans was: doesn't he understand it or does he just not want to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u216	Mr. Eerdmans has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u217	Mr. Eerdmans. That's me, Mr. Van Meenen, or chairman. The point is: you are making a very wrong conclusion, and that is wrong. You don't speak on the basis of facts, but you're going to mix facts with facts. Of course, the Tax Administration is looking at dual nationality, because it can also include double houses, double capacities and all kinds of cases that may have fraudulent origins. That's what the IRS is looking at. The Tax Office does not say: because people have a Turkish origin, we will suck them out just as well. That's just not true. So you make an inference and you use very big words that are just not right. So I think it is also pertinently wrong to put this on the table of the Tax Administration. I think this, apart from the fact that it has gone far too far. I have already said that to Mrs Leijten. People who turned out to be innocent have been followed for far too long. These people have been glued to the narrative for far too long: you are guilty. I think that's the point. So I want to speak on the basis of facts, but also the real facts. We shouldn't mix the facts with...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u218	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u219	...with value judgments that are unjustly hanged on people. Same goes for the police. It is said: so the police have turned a blind eye to immigrant young people. No, you don't. The police, apart from exceptions, are just tracking down. And I have made a whole speech about the fact that, in fact, immigrant young people are more common in these statistics.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u220	I cannot escape the impression that Mr Eerdmans is simply doing this consciously. I can have this discussion and give him a stage even longer. However, I would like to object to the fact that, by means of his motion for a resolution, he is dismissing Members of Parliament and suggests that we would call the Netherlands a racist country. That has not been said in this Chamber. I'm just objecting to that. I hear him screaming all kinds of things. On the one hand, he acknowledges that it occurs, but on the other hand he does not. You know, Mr President, I'm not even going to have that discussion, but I would like to object.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u221	Noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u222	Mr President, may I respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u223	Yes, you may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u224	Mr Van Baarle says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u225	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u226	I say, Mr. Van Baarle put this forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u227	Sorry, I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u228	No one understands why Mrs Simons isn't here tonight. She's had it many times...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u229	Mr. Eerdmans, Mr. Eerdmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u230	Okay. Feel better, fine. She has said this many times. She says: The Netherlands is a through and through rotten racist country. That is the opening of every contribution by Mrs Simons. So I think it would be a good idea for the House to say once again that the Netherlands is not a racist country, that there is certainly racism in this country, but that we should not talk to each other here about institutions being through and through racist, that there are people working in a government organization that is racist. We're not gonna do that, and we need a line through that. You may vote in favour of the motion or against it; that is up to you. But I think it would be good to draw a line there.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u231	First of all, a personal fact, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u232	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u233	Mr Van Baarle never said that the Netherlands is a racist country. I said that there was a racism crisis in the Netherlands, but I never said that the Netherlands is a racist country. I'm not gonna let that happen either.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u234	Noted. Proceed with your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Mr Eerdmans whether he thinks that a person's nationality, or if you like, can determine a person's origin, a risk of fraud. Does Mr Eerdmans think that based on a person's nationality, you can say that there is a greater risk of him or her committing fraud? Does Mr Eerdmans think that this can be determined on the basis of nationality or origin?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u236	I said that double nationality could be a reason to investigate someone with... I hear Mr Van Baarle react to that, but that's what I'm saying. That can be supported by other facts. Someone with a dual nationality doesn't commit fraud at all by definition, but I think you can investigate that. Double power, double houses, inheritances and so on play a role. That's probably work for the IRS. That is what is being done there on the basis of other facts. This is also done on the basis of age, on the basis of special gifts; I have said this before. These are all indicators that can lead to additional research. That, I repeat, has nothing to do with origin, but it has nothing to do with indicators.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u237	Finally, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u238	If it has nothing to do with origin or nationality, why use it? But Mr Eerdmans is not answering my question. I asked him if he believes, or does he think that a person's nationality dictates that someone in behavior presents a greater risk of fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u239	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u240	That's clear. Finalizing, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u241	But if it doesn't set a higher risk, why does Mr Eerdmans just say that you have to apply it in risk selection? If Mr Eerdmans himself now says 'it does not determine the risk of fraud in behavior', why apply it? Then we'll have to stop doing that, won't we? Then it is not correct in substance. Then it's no good.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u242	Mr. Eerdmans, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u243	Mr Van Baarle here skips the battle that you come from a dual nationality in other matters, such as having multiple homes in different countries and perhaps spread capabilities. It can also be about the power accumulation. It could be all kinds of things that have to do with that, which are the result of the fact that you have a dual nationality. You live here in the Netherlands. It may also be that people who simply live in the Netherlands and have a dual nationality remain completely outside the scope of the investigation. This has nothing to do with nationality in itself, but rather with its consequences. They could lead to research. I think so, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u244	Good. We're gonna leave it at that. I have a feeling you're not going to agree entirely. I can't explain it. It's like a fingerspitzengefühl. Mr. Eerdmans, please sit down. We're going to suspend until 10:37 p.m., which is ten minutes. I'll see you in a
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u245	We are ready for the second term of office of the directors. First, I give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Van Esch asked if the cabinet would take over all the plans of the national coordinator. The NCDR operates under ministerial responsibility, so the actions that will result from the national programme can only be carried out under ministerial responsibility. In the end, this means that I am accountable to the Chamber for the implementation of the plans. It really is the national coordinator's programme, so I am still looking at how we can do it together in a good way when the programme is there. The first motion - Van Baarle, in part No. 302, I advise. We're really focusing on targeted communication. We do this in different areas and do not want to do so much as a general campaign. The Van Baarle motion in part No. 304 is about the presentation of the budget. I have an earlier motion from Mr Van Baarle which I have to implement for the next budget. It's about the financial paragraph. In the national programme, we now bring together a lot of things. Before I cut everything loose at the moment, I would first like to make the motion on the financial paragraph. I would therefore advise against this motion at this time. Then it is even more information collection and accumulation. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 306. I have just tried to speak to the Secretary of State, but she would like to take a closer look at this motion first. The Chamber will receive a letter on the execution of the motion. Then there is the Mutluer c.s. motion, in part No. 307. I think it's very good that I'm going to find out how to put this into practice. This motion I give judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u247	A question about the motion on the public campaign. Do I distil it precisely from the Minister's reply that it shows that there is another policy in relation to public campaigns? We have conducted a general campaign: Strike a line through discrimination. It's been evaluated. It turned out to be successful. The Minister now states: no, not a general campaign; we are committed to targeted communication. Do I find a policy breach in this? Don't we run general campaigns anymore? Or does the Minister advise against this motion for another reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u248	In recent times, we have conducted targeted campaigns in particular. The national coordinator is already in the process of making his national programme. In addition, of course, he also looks at communication. Since this is the first national programme to be launched, I do not intend to start a general campaign now. In addition, I also realise that the actions included in this national programme should simply be carried out well with the money that is now available for them. If I am going to carry out a mass campaign, or at least a major public campaign, it will be at the expense of the resources that are now available for the national programme, because often it costs millions to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u249	Finalizing, Mr. Van Baarle.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u250	Now we are talking about resources, and now I think we are getting a little out of the way, because there was no problem with resources. Yes, you do. If, in general anti-discrimination policy, you can no longer finance a general public campaign because you then get in the way of the resources, then there is something wrong with the resources. Then, with the resources we have now, we cannot pursue a good anti-discrimination policy. I believe that this confirms the point I made earlier, namely that there are insufficient resources to pursue a good anti-discrimination policy. All the evaluations have shown that the overall campaign was very effective. So my question is: why shouldn't we? On the first part, about these resources, I would also like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u251	I am really looking at that differently from Mr Van Baarle because we are currently conducting targeted campaigns. I would also like to send a comprehensive overview of the campaigns we are currently conducting. I'm fine with that. They are simply covered, including in the national programme and the proposals. Around this, extra business costs a number of million and I do not have that money available at the moment, but that is because I am committed to targeted campaigns. I am therefore different from Mr Van Baarle's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u252	You see that all the time in this room. That's kind of what we're all here for, so I sometimes get the impression. And yet we're trying to get on with each other. Mrs. Koekkoek.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u253	It's a trial question. Appreciation comes in a letter. When's it coming? Is that clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u254	I would like to ask the Secretary of State to try to get it to you before the votes so that the Chamber can vote on it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u255	They'll take place next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u256	Yes. My question is, therefore, whether such a letter, including an appreciation of the motion, could be there before Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u257	Thank you. That's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u258	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The other motions will be dealt with by the Minister. Mr Eerdmans has tabled a motion asking the Chamber to speak out. The reflection on my part he is asking for is simply very clear: discrimination is prohibited.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u259	Mrs Leijten has another interruption or a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u260	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I asked for it in my first term, too. We are doing quite a lot now, with the national coordinator and the state committee. We're not gonna get the reflex "because we have, we're not gonna do anything right now, because we're gonna park it there"? I'm asking as a precaution. I didn't hear it, but I do want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u261	You want to be reassured. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u262	No, we're not gonna do that. We're working on a lot of things and we need to keep busy. The good thing is that, through the national programme of the coordinator that is to be put in place, we are really going to get our policies in line. The good thing about the state committee is that it will actually use it to come up with a number of deeper issues with a number of analyses, which we can then go further. But sitting still is not an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u263	Thank you for that answer. I would like to put another question to the Minister. Isn't it true that double-national selection isn't allowed? Isn't that one of the reasons why public administrations haven't recorded that dual nationality for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u264	That is an extremely good question from Mrs Leijten on the use of nationalities. Of course, we have created the framework around ethnic profiling for this. In that context, it says that you can only use nationality in very exceptional circumstances. There is still discussion with this Chamber. And whether or not it is a double nationality... It would make sense to say that's not allowed. At the same time, I saw that Mrs Belhaj wanted to ask a question. Perhaps that will give us the opportunity to give the final answer to Mrs Leijten's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u265	However, I would like to return to the third motion, which, in part No. 304. For we knew, Mr Van Baarle himself, that he had previously tabled a motion in which he called for that to be investigated. But as a result of this debate, you will find that there are so many different elements in it that you can also see this as a support and an interpretation of what is being thought of. 'Cause if the minister comes up with some kind of thrill, and we think "yes, nice, but we miss these elements"... This is actually just a way, a gesture to say: if anything comes back, it would be very useful for us if these elements were in it. That is why the point made in the annex. Can the Minister not therefore interpret this motion as supporting the earlier motion tabled by Mr Van Baarle?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u266	What I'd like to do... I would also like to prevent us from putting a lot of time into building the structure when we work out this information and how we are going to bring it back up again. This is the proposal, as I say to the President, that I should like to write a letter to the Chamber on how we are going to implement Mr Van Baarle's earlier motion, so that the Chamber can then consider whether it will give an adequate picture of what the Chamber wants. Because what is in this is just a lot, and we just have to make sure that we get it clear first through a financial paragraph. Then I will let the House know, before the budget is in place, how we see it, so that the Chamber can give a ruling on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u267	After a collegial intermezzo with Mrs Belhaj: when does the Minister intend to present this letter? For then we would be prepared to hold on to this motion for a moment, to see if the Minister's conclusion on how she carried out that motion is in line with what we mean in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u268	I think it would be a good idea to do so before the summer recess, and also in such a way that the Chamber can give a response to this at the procedural meeting. That would be my timing, so at least I will make sure that the Chamber can find something on that before the summer of the sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u269	That seems clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u270	Mr President, we shall hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u271	At the request of Mr Van Baarle, I propose his motion (30950), No. 304). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u272	Mr. Chairman. Then there's double nationality. What you see is that you sometimes have applications... There are 100 double taxation conventions based on the OECD Model Convention, which states that one can have a certain nationality. That is therefore an answer to the question of whether it is being applied in practice. This is done in the context of double taxation conventions, which are also based on the OECD Model Convention. That is the answer to Mrs Leijten's question, if I have understood her question correctly. But I say to Mrs Leijten that this is at least an application where nationality is used.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u273	Sure. There are sometimes legitimate reasons for keeping track of nationality, to take this into account, including in treaties. But it is about selection: that people with dual nationality are selected, 'because there would be more fraud'. It has been said that nationality is not a selection basis for detecting fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u274	I think Mrs Leijten is now answering the question she has asked herself, isn't she? It's true, what Mrs. Leijten says.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u275	Yeah, and that's what I wanted to know. It is also suggested here in the Chamber... I remember very well, in the debate on this government's resignation, everyone in the Chamber actually said: we have done this wrong; we cannot select that by nationality, and we can see that now. That actually follows from everything, for example when it comes to fraud detection and all of it. In the past, when he was still Secretary of State for Social Affairs, the Prime Minister was convicted by the court for illegal selection on nationality. It took a long time for the government to apply it, but it has now. Someone's been in the Chamber. I'm gonna take a look at him, Mr. Eerdmans, who says we're just doing that, and that makes sense. But no, that has long been recognised by judges, by judgments and also by the government as discrimination that we should not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u276	I always find it dangerous to observe, but I think you agree with the Minister and they agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u277	Since the Minister for Justice and Security has now answered the question about street harassment, I would also like to say something about it in the direction of Mrs Van der Woude. I was in Friesland some time ago. That's where I went to talk to the kids from Tienskip. People from Friesland know that "mienskip" is community, but now it's Tienskip. These young people are also responsible for increasing participation in democracy. In fact, they say: we should start talking to the council and people about things that we are worried about, to bring them to the attention of the public. They took street harassment for that, because they actually had the idea in Leeuwarden that street intimidation was just a topic that wasn't discussed. These ladies I say "ladies," but I mean 16- and 17-year-olds. So they're just going to ask around in schools and on the street: do you have any problems? They found out that, in line with the efforts of the Minister of Justice and Security when she was a councilman, several people said that it was but was not discussed. They then put it on the agenda on the board of Leeuwarden. Then you see that as a young person you can really make a difference on a very topical theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u278	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u279	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and I would like to come back to one point. I would like to inform Mr Van Baarle where the figures on the judicial decision are to be found. As is suspected, they can be found in many different places, for example in the different figures reports published annually by the police, the prosecutor, the anti-discrimination reporting points, the National Ombudsman and the Internet discrimination hotline. I also mention the report Figures in Image, of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The website discrimination.nl provides an overview of reports that provide insight into discrimination rates. This month the figures for 2021 shall be published by the Office. It gives figures on the number of subpoenas, but also on the number of cases dealt with, for example, by means of a so-called transaction, an OM decision or a parole order. It may also be good to say that the Cities in Beeld report indicates in how many cases a discrimination case has led to an acquittal or to a sentence without penalty. For example, there are many different places where all these elements come back, also bundled. I therefore hope that Mr Van Baarle will be able to find the information he is looking for there. I have two motions, including his. The first motion, the motion in part No. 303, calls on the Government to regularly measure the willingness to report discrimination. This motion as such is not feasible and I advise against it, because being willing to report it in itself is nothing. You just don't know that. We can bet on more reports and a higher willingness to report through the anti-discrimination detectives. This is shown in concrete terms. That's what they're gonna do. There will also be a CBS report, biennial, with the Safety Monitor, in which things also come back. That is why this motion has been dissuaded. The motion in part No. 305 I leave to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u280	It's a little weird that I often interfere with other people's motions, but I can't stand it if I don't understand what the minister is saying. The Minister says it would be difficult to make a declaration, but you can just measure certain things in the security monitor, can't you? Have you been through anything? Did you report it? Are you prepared to report it? Why can't you just ask me that? That's not something that's impossible, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u281	That is what is being done, but what I think is being asked in this motion cannot be understood in this way. It's done by the CBS in the Security Monitor and it's done by the police. So the elements that Mrs Belhaj is asking for are already being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u282	What surprises me is that exactly the same motion, but for the sake of reporting, has been given to Chamber, and has also been adopted. That motion called for a more frequent review of the reporting capacity and for a distinction to be made on grounds of discrimination. But when it comes to making a declaration, it's suddenly not gonna do that. Why not? Because in the survey, people can be asked: have you experienced it, have you reported it? In this way this can be constructed, as is done with the willingness to report. So I really wonder whether the practical hurdle that the Minister is creating here is correct, and I am not saying that she is deliberately doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u283	Yeah, I think so. That is why I also refer to elements in which these specific matters do come back, such as the Safety Monitor. It is not, of course, that we are not investigating this at all. Perhaps the motion is too wide interpretable. I read it as: this is hard to carry out. That's why I'm referring to places where it does land. Maybe it's in there, because I don't think we have a disagreement on this. You really need to keep an eye on things like this. If people want to report or should have to report, as far as we are concerned, if there is a clear case of discrimination, they must always feel safe to do so. They need to feel good about that and know that something is going to happen to their case. That is also what the anti-discrimination detectives are going to play a very important role in. I think all these elements will come together anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u284	Good. Now, Mrs Belhaj, are you going to ask again about Mr Baarle's motion? Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u285	If Mr Van Baarle doesn't do it himself... Sorry, I just feel like I'm listening to bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u286	Well, well, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u287	Yes. I say, "I feel like I am." I'm not saying that I am. The minister says it's in different places. Well, the Chamber asks the Minister: put that together, because there is a need for that overview; put a staple through it and send it to the Chamber. I really don't understand the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u288	Good. One more time, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u289	No, I'm not gonna repeat my answer. It is impossible to measure only on discrimination. The elements mentioned by Mr Van Baarle, where declaration readiness and notification preparation are important, are other matters. I was trying to make some kind of bridge. I understand what they're looking for. That's why I mentioned those other elements. If anyone thinks that's bullshit, let's just say it's late. I'm gonna stick to "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u290	Well, one more time, Mr. Van Baarle. Then we're gonna end it.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u291	One last try. If there is a willingness from the government to do so, then why shouldn't the motion have been given a ruling from the Chamber to examine the willingness to report more often? We're investigating experienced discrimination. The question was taken into account: you have experienced discrimination; have you mentioned it? In such an investigation the question can also be considered: you have experienced discrimination; have you also reported? We can do that more often and we can monitor it over time. That's just practically adaptable. What the Minister says does not do justice to the fact that with such an investigation we would like to keep our finger on the wrist to see if the declaration will go up. Because that is an objective of policy and it must be possible to test it in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u292	I'm not saying we don't want to be able to follow it at all. Perhaps I can respond to Mr Van Baarle by saying that we can also ask the CBS to include this explicitly in the next Safety Monitor. That's also an option. I'm looking for a good way to land that. I can have that conversation with the CBS anyway. If I can discourage the motion with this commitment, then perhaps we have come a step closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u293	That's good. Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of this debate, just before 11 p.m., as it should be. I thank the two rulers. I would like to thank my fellow Members and, of course, in particular, our excellent support in many forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2022-05-19-tweedekamer-11.u294	I note that the motions tabled and the previous motion of the SP will be put to the vote next Tuesday. Having said that, I'm closing the meeting. I wish you all a nice and safe day, evening, night.
